ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u1	The next item is the debate on the independence of the Scientific Research and Documentation Centre (WODC). I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security to the Chamber of Commerce and the people in the public gallery. I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen as the first speaker on behalf of the SP Group. Speaking time is five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u2	The revelations of Nieuwsuur about the research of the Scientific Research and Documentation Centre have arrived hard. For years, we've been fooled by non-independent, politically-driven investigations. In order to get the right conclusions that fit in the Minister's style, scientists have been put under pressure. This is really insufferable. This has nothing to do with independent science: political positions in a scientific jacket! Society has been lied to. The political debate has been manipulated. The House of Representatives has been misinformed. I feel like I'm really screwed. We were fooled by the Ministry's VVD leadership at the time, during Opstelten and Bitches. What a shame! Can't be trusted! People's confidence in politics was already not very high and confidence in science has now been compromised. I very much resent the VVD, which is responsible for this by pulling these regions out of the Ministry of Justice and Security with its rulers. The VVD should be deeply ashamed. However, I cannot and do not want to look back alone, because there is a lot of work to be done to restore that confidence. There is an important task for this Minister. The announcement of various investigations is partly justified, but at the same time a bit of the flight forward, as the Minister may avoid painful choices and questions. For example, what exactly did the Minister say went wrong? How did this happen? And, for example, the question: has there been any criminal offences? Wasn't there a science fraud? But also, for example, the question: why doesn't the Minister choose to remove the WODC from the Ministry? The Ministry has shown that it cannot deal with this responsibility. The WODC should no longer be accessible by elevator with its independent researchers to policy officials of the Justice Department. That is why the SP says: Remove the WODC from the Ministry; let's decide today to place the WODC remotely. Yesterday the brave whistleblower, Mrs Van Ooyen, was on television. She stuck her neck out, but she was not rewarded, but sent away. She stood for her scientific integrity and independence and for informing the House of Representatives as correctly and as fully as possible. That did not apply to the executives of the VVD and that did not apply to the director of the WODC. Not only did he not stand for his researchers and the importance of independent science, he pressured scientists and then blamed the whistleblower in a meeting for the fuss. How's the secretary gonna restore confidence with this director? The Minister cannot wait for the investigations to ensure the safety of the staff. That's very important. It fits into the picture of fear and settling with the Justice Department when an integrity coordinator calls the whistleblower to find out which colleague might have leaked. How can a Justice Officer's hotline work when people are afraid to report? What guarantees does the Minister give that the justice staff is free to report complaints and abuses without causing them any problems? It is good that researchers are also given the preliminary phase of the studies, i.e. internal communication and draft versions. We just read that in the Minister's letter. The whistleblower had also pointed out, among other things, that there might be a problem there. But do I understand correctly that research into contaminated publications is not only about whether the research is satisfactory according to scientific standards, but above all about whether and why political direction has been taken? That is important for my group. It raises the question of which investigations on behalf of the Ministry are even more manipulated and therefore not to be trusted, including the investigations outside the WODC. What consequences should that have? The key question of this debate is how we guarantee independent research. Justice isn't the only ministry that doesn't take it so close to scientific standards. The U.S. Department is also guilty. This has not only been highlighted yesterday in Nieuwsuur, there have been many examples of this. What about inspections, for example? What initiatives can we expect from the government to be able to truly trust scientific research, even if it is commissioned by a ministry? What are we doing with civil servants trying to manipulate? Shouldn't there be a reporting obligation for researchers? Shouldn't independence be laid down by law, as Van Vollenhoven advocates? Finally. The public administration under the VVD uses the methods of the market economy, the result of 30 years of neoliberalism. That is why I say to this Minister: policy is not a product to be sold. And: information is something completely different from marketing. How does this minister see it? How is this minister going to put things in order to restore confidence in his ministry and the independence of science?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u4	Mr. Chairman. "'Justice is changing': that is the title of the multiannual change path of the Ministry announced a few years ago. The Ministry wants to be a reliable partner for citizens, business, governance and media. That's what it says on the website. Justice has changed, too. First it was Security and Justice, now it's Justice and Security. You could laugh at it if it wasn't so serious. The broadcast of Nieuwsuur on 6 December last year hit a few major dents in the reputation of both the Ministry and the Scientific Research and Documentation Centre, the WODC. The WODC had the reputation of independent institute, although it is located on the fourteenth floor of the ministry. The protocol states that direct interference by the Minister or his policy staff is not permitted. During the broadcast of Nieuwsuur, however, the opposite turned out to be true. Important decisions, such as on coffeeshop policy in the Netherlands, have been influenced by political guidance on research by the WODC. The Minister has rightly announced the following measures. Firstly, there will be an independent test of the scientific standard of the reports on coffeeshop policy. But are the final reports also compared with the previous concepts? The letter we have just received shows that it is, but I would like to hear the Minister's confirmation here in the debate. Secondly, there will be an external investigation into how work has been carried out since the entry into force of the protocol and the relationship between the WODC and the Ministry's policy departments. Thirdly, there will be an external independent complaints committee, which will examine how the complaint in question has been dealt with. I'll get back to you on this. As far as my group is concerned, there is little point in waiting for these reports and adopting a passive attitude. The essence of the case is that there has been influence and direction. It's also certain they weren't incidents. For example, a policy officer suggests that the WODC researchers should keep the political official summit informed immediately and continuously. And that's what's gonna happen, Mr. Chairman. The directors of the policy department will personally interfere with the text of WODC reports. I'll give you a few quotes. "Because this file is so politically sensitive." Or: "Then the minister will certainly have to explain exactly what was meant and what was meant." Even if all the independent scientists agree and the final conclusions are established, action will be taken. I quote again: 'We cannot agree to what we have now', establishes a top official in an email to the WODC researchers. Mr. Chairman. It is also clear that there is a mentality or culture that "does not promote" the reporting of abuses in order to express it diplomatically. Employees are afraid to report. There is no point in a hotline. And if there's a report, nothing happens. Nothing has happened to the complaint made by the relevant employee, who announced herself yesterday in Nieuwsuur, Mrs Van Ooyen. Mr. Chairman. It's totally unacceptable. The measures announced by the Minister, and rightly so, are not going to restore them. As far as my group is concerned, the credibility of the WODC as an independent and scientific institution is gone. Doubt about multiple reports, a culture of influence, fear of reporting abuses and repercussions if reported: housing the WODC elsewhere and firing the director is the most important thing to do, but even then the question is whether credibility is restored. I would like to hear the Minister's response on this point. Mr. Chairman. Those who have kept their backs straight are the relevant collaborator, Mrs Van Ooyen, despite an e-mail from the director stating that she should consider herself how long he found her behavior workable. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that she can benefit from her well-earned pension and that her name is not still being blacked out? Because if it weren't for her, we wouldn't be here today. Finally, Mr President. The independence of research on behalf of the government must be laid down by law. Then there is no longer a violation of a code of conduct or a protocol, but of the law. That threshold is many times higher. I would like to hear the Minister's response on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u6	Mr. Chairman. Last December, Nieuwsuur reported that the WODC of investigations modified the conclusions because the Ministry's official summit wanted them to. According to the officials, conclusions were intended to correspond to what Minister Opstelten had previously reported to the Chamber. This is, of course, unacceptable. Science must always answer research questions independently, otherwise it is literally worthless. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, I have to say that even after they left the department from the old cabinets of a number of VVD executives the necessary bodies have fallen. That is extremely bad for the prestige of this old respectable department. It is therefore important to get to the bottom of this issue. That brings me to the three investigations that have been carried out. First of all, it is important that these investigations are truly independent and that the committees have all the relevant information. I have a number of questions about this. Where do these committees work physically? How's communication with the Ministry going? How do the committees have access to the information they need? Are the results presented to both the Chamber and the Ministry at the same time? And how does the Minister guarantee that his department will fully cooperate in these independent investigations? Mr. Chairman. In investigating the relationship between the department and the WODC, I notice that the research question is very narrow. It is not just a question of whether the new protocol has been complied with. The key question is whether the department has tried to affect the scientists', I call it,'report freedom'. I believe that the committee should examine this in full. The new protocol also talks about'service assignments'. But influence is often much more indirect than giving a service assignment, for example by e-mail or in a conversation. As far as I am concerned, that more subtle influence must also be taken into account. I hope the Minister agrees with me. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the research on the scientific standard of drug trials. In the meantime, there are three of them. It is good that the Minister also brings the third report. It is also important that the committee has all the relevant information, so indeed, as the Minister now writes in the letter, all the drafts and all correspondence about the investigations. I am glad that the Minister agrees with me and the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then the complaint handling within the Ministry. I read with some annoyance that the question of whether there have been more complaints about the WODC is referred to the memories of trusted persons. Memories? Isn't that the kind of issues that are made up of conversational reports or notes? It all seems rather unprofessional. My question to the Minister is whether this is still the practice and how it is going now. What about culture in the department? Can you now freely file a complaint, or should you fear repercussions? That does suspect the fear culture the whistleblower spoke of yesterday. I would like a response from the Minister on that point. Mr. Chairman. Then I have some questions about the embedding of the WODC in the department. It's a good thing we're investigating what went wrong, but the world is going crazy. The key question is, I think, can the scientific independence of the WODC be sufficiently guaranteed at this time? Is it true, for example, that the funding of the WODC is determined per research assignment? What possibilities does the Minister see for better guaranteeing the independence of the WODC? I am thinking here of physical, financial and legal possibilities for achieving this. Is it not wise, for example, that the WODC should join the National Scientific Integrity Body as soon as possible, an independent advisory body that advises institutions on possible violations of scientific integrity? I'd like to hear the Minister's views on that. Finally, Mr President. Exclusion is always complicated, but we must be as sure as possible that other institutions, which are in another department, do not have the same problems. Is the Minister prepared to take up this question with his fellow executives and start thinking in full terms about the relationship between government and research? Finally, in this context, can the reporters who have worked at another institute under another department but who face the same problem, on this issue, be right in the presence of one of the committees set up? I'd like a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u7	D66 asks many legitimate questions and I am also curious about the answers, but I did miss one question when Mr Groothuizen talked about the embedding of the WODC, because that is what I am very concerned about. How does Mr Groothuizen view the current situation that the WODC is located on the fourteenth floor of the Ministry? As a result, there are all kinds of risks of subtle forms of influence, not involving formal service assignments, but simply taking the elevator and then looking over the policy officer's shoulder, having a cup of coffee with him or her to drink and so on. Doesn't that bring too many risks? Wouldn't it be a good idea to at least take the WODC out of the Ministry building and really put it at a distance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u8	That is an understandable question from Mr Van Nispen. That is why I also asked the Minister about physical, financial and legal possibilities to see how we can guarantee this, with 'physical possibilities' referring to these kinds of elements. I do not have the illusion that all problems are solved by definition if one institution is physically in another building. We were told about the Trimbos Institute yesterday. That was nuanced by the Trimbos today, which always complicates these kinds of discussions. I don't think Trimbos is in the department, but maybe things happened there too. So I do not have the impression that it is in one factor, but I think we should look at the width of how we can solve it. That is why there must be as many guarantees of independence as possible, both physically, financially and legally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u9	Yeah, I get that; I totally agree. Of course, not all problems are solved if you move the WODC; I wouldn't say that either. But Mr Groothuizen does, I think, recognize that if you can just take the elevator, the risks of influence are a little greater than when the institution is not only physically, so from the building, but also organizationally really placed at a distance? In this respect, the WODC is a major exception compared to all other institutes of knowledge and research associated with the government. So I understand that Mr Groothuizen is asking the question, but I would like to challenge him not only to wait for the answers and all the investigations, but also to think for himself whether the WODC can stay on that 14th floor or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u10	In my view, I have already made it clear that I think that we should look at these three factors, physical, legal and financial, to see how we can guarantee it. I asked questions about this earlier in the written round. You have done the same; other groups have done the same. The minister said he's gonna look at this. I think that's wise. As far as I am concerned, this question is now back on the table, perhaps even more worrying: is it not wise to go and see how we can better fill this out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Professor Pieter van Vollenhoven formulated it in a nutshell: my experience is that the truth is not a popular subject for everyone. Also former Ombudsman Alex Brenninkmeijer became increasingly frustrated by political influence in his work. Political influence is not confined to the Department of Justice and Security. The problem is widespread. Gerard van der Steenhoven, President of the Association of National Knowledge Institutions and Director of the KNMI, knows both the university world and the state institutions. He states: At a state knowledge institution, the ministry runs the money crane. That's what's important. Universities are there to develop knowledge, the state institutions for underpinning policies that politicians want. He points out that national knowledge institutions did not adopt the code of conduct of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences. Isn't that important for knowledge institutes, which provide departments with knowledge and support policy makers? Should that be on facts, or should that be on opinions? Researcher Wynsen Faber reports that it was already playing in 2010, when his research firm for the WODC investigated cybercrime and child pornography. Literally Faber says: there was discussion as to whether it could be made public. The Ministry thought the results were undesirable, but I wonder: who within the Ministry? We're talking about 2010. Eventually Faber published the results himself. Three years later, it happened again, in an investigation into acquisition fraud. Also then the Ministry stopped publication. The burger at home is scratching behind the ears, and I think the Chamber is scratching behind the ears. How reliable is the government? What about the results of the CBS, the CPB, the RIVM and the Scientific Council for Government Policy? Van Vollenhoven called the appointment of his successor, the VVD'er Tjibbe Joustra, a political appointment. And what about the appointment of VVD'er Zalm as chairman of the advice board of the Central Planning Bureau? Is it wise, however, that the question was also asked here just now to sit so closely on each other's lap, financially but also literally? In the case of the WODC even in the same building, together on lap. That's how the director of this institute looks like a lapdog. Setting up research is, of course, always a process. Researchers must ask themselves whether the clients' wishes are compatible with their professionalism. Quite independent research probably doesn't exist, but a client who tries to brush away results? It can't be. The guarantees can be better. What does the Minister think of legally anchoring independence, as Van Vollenhoven proposes? Breaking the law weighs more than protocol. 50PLUS is therefore considering tabling a motion on this matter. The Minister said that the official interference should not have happened like this. But in an internal mail, the Secretary-General writes that it should be possible to exchange views with respect for everyone's role. Yeah, it's two-and-a-half: either the minister, or the mighty sg is right. I'd like to know who. If I correctly estimate the influence of the Justice Information Service, I suspect that almost nothing goes out uncontrolled. Could my suspicion therefore be correct that the news about the WODC has been deliberately leaked, orchestrated? 'Cause why is this old case coming up now? It's a fine timing for the Minister. He's just sitting there and no one will blame him personally. Was he annoyed, as a scientist, by the culture of polishing away? In that case, chapeau, my compliments. Brilliant even, a good opportunity to clean up. I would like to conclude by saying a few words about the lady who has fallen into the spotlight outside of her will and out of her fault. There is no blackmailing but a sincere thank you, also from the Ministry. Can the Minister guarantee us that she gets the protection she needs and deserves? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u14	Thank you, Madam President. I was a little disappointed that I had printed the Minister's answer to our questions, because for 26 pages he only says, even in very few variations, that we should be patient and that we should wait for the announced investigations. Today, I will try to take it one step further. I do the same for the employees of the WODC. In December, the three-year prize for the best criminological dissertation was awarded. In the top four were three WODCs. I would like to make it clear here that the academic qualities of the staff are beyond doubt. The central problem is the influence by the political summit, the shuffling with results and the pressure of employees. That is scandalous and harmful. Our written questions seem to have led to an extension of one of the investigations announced. The controversial reports would initially only examine whether they meet the scientific standard. Only in doubt would it be considered whether there was political pressure. But a report can be quite scientific as a final product, despite the fact that political pressure has been exerted, for example thanks to excellent staff who have resisted the pressure. In his second letter of late December, the Minister specified that such undue influence was prominently taken into account in all the reports examined. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. I brought in the visitation report from 2014. It describes the tension inherent in the WODC. The department has an influence on the planning and prioritization of the WODC. The Centre's academic independence should be secured by the researchers' freedom to carry out the research as they see fit. But the problem is that the method of research is often also determined by the department, through start notes. Think, for example, of investigating whether legalisation and regulation of drugs is possible internationally. It matters whether you look at the anti-drug treaties for this or whether you look more broadly and also take the openings that offer human rights treaties. Those start notes are seen by some external researchers as a straitjacket, as they said to the Visitation Committee. Political bias has already been mentioned in this report. I would like a response from the Minister. We do not have to wait for an investigation, because this report has been known for a long time. So he'll be right about that reaction in no time. I would also like to answer the question of whether the starting notes, in which important choices are made, are public or should be made public according to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. There are 29 public knowledge organisations. Of these only two have a departmental status legally: the KiM of IenW and the WODC. Others are independent foundations or planning agencies. In response to questions from the SP, the Minister says: "In order to assess whether or not there is a reason to place the WODC more at a distance, the results of the investigations promised to your Chamber should be awaited." But that's not true. In any case, distance helps to prevent any appearance of unwanted influence. That is a value in itself, I ask the Minister. Last month was a bit laughing about the reports from the WODC. And that interferes with our work. We want justice and security policy to be based as much as possible on facts. We are now limited in this by the political crap. Mr. Chairman. Even more than protocols, culture in a department is important. The remote positioning of the WODC, for example by making it a planning agency, gives an important signal according to GroenLinks and thus helps to create a culture in which influence of research is really not okay. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared to investigate the advantages and disadvantages of a positioning of the WODC as a planning agency. I am considering tabling a motion on this matter. I know it's not a magic formula, but according to GroenLinks, it is helpful for this cultural change. Speaking of cultural change, I also had questions about this to the Minister during the budget debate. He got off a little easy then, like: we're working on it; it's tiptop okay. But I think we see, especially in the Minister's first letter, that the shielding and the aborting are still very deeply anchored at the top. I think after that his own nature came up a little bit and we see it reflected in that second letter. I would like to offer the Minister a tile wisdom of Fokke & Sukke: "'And the cultural change? That's Thursday the 17th at 3:30." But it's not that easy, of course. A cultural change requires a long-term effort and an always alert minister. I hope that looking at this picture encourages him to do so, because I do not think the Minister's initial response reflected that. I hope that from now on he will remain ever more alert to take this cultural change seriously and that he will, once again, consider the possibilities of putting that WoDC in a different place, for example, in order to ensure that scientific research is truly independent and that we can do our work properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u15	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Arno Rutte on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u16	Mr. Chairman. After a week in the lap basket with high fever, I hope to pass through it today without too big a cough. If that happens, we'll cough for a while and move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u17	Then it's not the emotion, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u18	No, it's just a virus. That's different. Happens. Mr. Chairman. The Scientific Research and Documentation Centre, the WODC, is an interesting and very respectable research institute in the field of justice. That was already the case in the nineties when I studied criminal law in Groningen, and that's true to this day. At least, it should be. But since the broadcast of Nieuwsuur on December 6, 2017, there has been a sudden doubt. In that broadcast it emerged that from the ministry of, at that time, Security and Justice pressure would have been exerted on the WODC to amend conclusions that would not be appropriate in substance. With a beautiful term that was called "contextualizing." In practice, this meant, according to Nieuwsuur, continuous official control of the content of the research. Sturding that even went so far that the director of the WODC felt compelled to rewrite the conclusion of a report, despite the researchers' findings. Mr. Chairman. It may sound very similar, that contextualizing, but it is a serious matter. Politicians, directors and officials should never interfere in the content of scientific research and if so, if so, then the credibility of the investigation ends. We can and we can't let that happen. The VVD strongly rejects the exercise of political pressure on independent scientific research. The independence of the WODC must be beyond any doubt. It is therefore also a good thing that the Minister has immediately opted for intensive external research to look at exactly what has happened. If it turns out that this influence has actually taken place in this way, it is serious. On the basis of the results of the ongoing investigations, the Minister will have to take all measures to ensure that the independence of the WODC is guaranteed and that the culture within the Ministry to participate and actually do so stops. Mr. Chairman. In the run-up to this debate, the VVD Group, like all the other groups in this House, has put a number of very critical questions to the Minister. Written, that's how it works. Are there more studies involving political pressure? What kind of investigations are those? Has the tightening of the protocol for the WODC led to changes in 2016? Are these tightening-ups sufficient to prevent future abuses? What measures does the Minister intend to take to prevent future political direction at the WODC? It would be very nice if the Minister could answer today, but I suspect that this will be difficult because the Minister referred to the ongoing investigations he has launched in all these questions. That's uncomfortable, especially if you're in a debate right now. We're all jumping for answers. I understand it, too. After all, the investigations are there to provide sound answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u19	I do not quite understand the input, because you say: what measures can the Minister take to counter political influence? But the point is that the minister did that political influence, didn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u20	The studies do run to see exactly what happened, how that went in practice. If you're saying you can't have any influence, then I think you should think about how to prevent that from happening. You can do that simply because the Minister says: you will not do that anymore. It's an illusion to think that that's all just over. It's much deeper. For example, Mrs Buitenweg herself indicated that it is also in the culture of the organisation. So that really requires more research, and that also requires a number of very targeted measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u21	I fully agree with you that culture is deeper, but I do have the impression that the Minister has a great influence on it. You make it look a bit like I can understand very well, given the amount of ministers in your party, as if it were some kind of action that a minister should or should not take, but it is also a question of a specific minister acting and ensuring that no pressure is put on? Because the reports we are talking about are a minister who has himself given direction to an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u22	I think I have been very clear about it: any form of administrative, administrative and political pressure is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u23	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u24	Mr. Chairman. In a note from the whistleblower, which was posted on the website of Nieuwsuur yesterday and which we all received by e-mail today as MPs, she indicated that the influence was not only in two but in three of her investigations. I would have liked to ask a question about this, but the Minister has already indicated today, in response to a request from Mr Van Nispen, that the third investigation she is talking about will also be included in the investigations that are currently taking place. The VVD is happy with that. The more complete, the better. Mr. Chairman. The temptation is great, and I heard that a number of colleagues are already doing so, to make an advance today on the conclusions of the current investigations and the measures to be taken. For example, there are already voices in advance to place the WODC at a distance from the Ministry. That's not an illogical thought either. I fully agree that this idea is taking shape, but at least today I will resist the temptation to call for such measures already. Just as the credibility of research is under pressure because of political direction, politicians today fit some modesty. We will have to give space to the researchers to come to their conclusions. The Minister of Justice then has the important task of taking the necessary measures, on the basis of these conclusions, to ensure that everyone can rely blindly on the investigations of the WODC over the next few decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u25	Modesty, me hula! We are people's representatives, and I take this very seriously. Let me quote what Mrs Van Ooyen herself wrote. "'My experience has taught me that the WODC has not built in sufficient guarantees for its independence, neither in its structure nor in its culture. There's no integrity committee. Nor is the WODC affiliated to an external integrity committee. The protocol is not enough. It doesn't arm you against informal pressure. There is not enough to prevent abuses. There is no supervision and there are no sanctions for violations." That's a lady speaking from experience. I think we should take her seriously. In any case, my group is doing so. So that modesty, I don't care. I would very much appreciate it if the VVD colleague would also like to give her a little credit and say: this lady does have a point; that WODC really needs to be put at a distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u26	I take Mrs Van Ooyen's remarks very seriously. I also conclude that what she has brought out has led to the three very intensive investigations, to really dive into them to see what has happened, how we prevent it in the future and how we guarantee the independence of the WODC. The whistleblower deserves us to do that seriously. So I think what she's saying is very serious. I am well aware that this can lead to all sorts of measures. I'll support them, too. I think that's important. I just don't think this is the time to immediately conclude: that's how we're gonna do it; we're gonna put it away, that's what it looks like. I think that's a step too soon. But it may well be that in six months' time we will come to the conclusion that this is part of the whole package. I'm not opposed to that. I just don't think this is the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u27	I can imagine, as Mr Rutte points out, that for certain measures you first need to know exactly what is coming out of the investigations. But there can also be things that you say: no matter what comes out of those investigations, these are just welcome reinforcements of guarantees of independence. Isn't that one of those things about the physical distance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u28	Remote placing of the WODC is really a serious measure to consider. We must also realise that the WODC has, of course, been working for a very long time within that world of justice, the Ministry of Justice, and also for a very long time, and that the expulsion of such a research institute also has all kinds of repercussions. You need to reorganize. You have to organize it. You have to put it somewhere. I think you should do that carefully, that we should weigh that well. Don't delay for years, certainly not, but I'm going to do some very good research right now. I am not opposed in principle, certainly not in principle, to the distance of the WODC. It is just a little too soon for me to draw all that conclusion today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u29	On the other hand, isn't it difficult to link it entirely to those investigations, no matter exactly what comes out of those investigations? Now you're talking about it. Now you're thinking about it. The question is whether it is not wise to say: eh, many other institutes of knowledge have arranged this, isn't that just wise? If you're gonna link it to those investigations, it's gonna be almost like a punitive measure if you move to a remote location. While you can also just say: this is simply a result of a debate we have on this, regardless of what exactly is going wrong or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u30	I certainly do not see that as a punishment. That's not why I'm reluctant. I think we should be very careful with these kinds of choices. That's the kind of care I'd like to take. I don't want to put it off, either, but I just see that three intensive investigations are going to take place right now, in conjunction. I think it is important that we say, in the context of the conclusions, that we take this measure, and that is what it looks like. I think that's a better time than it is now. Not to delay, but to make the right decisions at the right time on the basis of the right facts in conjunction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u31	Mr Rutte calls for care to be taken in the steps we take after the committees have reported. In this context, how does he look at the possible connection, which has been advocated by several political groups, with the LOWI, the institute responsible for ensuring the independence of scientific research? Does he see the same step-by-step plan or is that something he can do sooner?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u32	I think that's the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u33	As far as I am concerned, you should explain this a little. Removing an institution is indeed something with consequences. I get that. You could also say: that institution already exists and you can just report there. It's up to the institute to decide if they'll hire you. Then people who have a complaint about scientific integrity can, in any case, be justified there. Can you explain that a little bit more?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u34	With the explanation given by Mr Grothuizen, I can certainly imagine. What matters to me in principle, but I believe that this is also clear, is that we do not need to come to all kinds of measures today, because we have a debate now, knowing that we are now investigating a few things in conjunction and that we could take decisions in a coherent manner in the not too long term, especially on organisational issues. I imagine this is something else after all. An institute where one can report, which gives freedom to report on scientific integrity, can be a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u35	When it came to the future of the WODC, Mr Rutte said that politicians should now exercise modesty. Can he explain to me why we, the House of Representatives, should exercise modesty here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u36	At a time when there is a debate on political direction at a scientific institute, when all its consequences are now being thoroughly investigated, I think that we should be modest and not be politically steered again in advance how we want it to be. There's the modesty. This modesty is not in the political judgements we have, we are judging on what has happened, but we are judging on the content of what it should look like in the future, especially as there are investigations going on at the moment. Hence my call to humility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u37	I may imagine that with some politicians, but I think that most of us have never had any political direction. It is therefore a question of political direction by the top of the ministry, not by the House of Representatives. I think we should keep that from each other. The House of Representatives now has a role to play in finding a solution. So I think there is no modesty here, but of course care when looking at a solution. I would like to ask you specifically whether you are prepared by the Minister to put the pros and cons in a row from transforming the WODC into a planning agency. Then it's about seeing if this would be a good opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u38	I heard Mrs Buitenweg say the same in her own speech. A planning agency is a form in which that can be done. There may be more forms possible, so I think this might be a bit too narrow. But I sincerely believe that, when we examine what has happened here and how we will be able to organise it properly, we should not send it here in advance from the Chamber and say: we want it to look like this. Let us wait for a moment and give space to the researchers. As soon as it's there, we'll decide how to do it. I think that's the right order. That's what I'm arguing for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u39	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u40	Some things are gonna get mixed up here. The researchers are not investigating the best status for the WODC. The researchers look at the political direction in three reports. We must enter the future of the WODC and the research necessary for this. For that, perhaps we should ask the Minister to look at the pros and cons of a planning agency or to organise it in a different way. I am quite open to that, but we cannot leave that to the researchers, because that is not their mission at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u41	I think it's kind of the reverse world that the VVD is right here arguing for space for the researchers. Anyway, I also think that these investigations should be done properly, but I hope Mr Rutte doesn't doubt the revelations of Nieuwsuur? I hope he doesn't doubt the whistleblower's comments like we heard yesterday. He just said it was serious. Now my question to him is: what exactly does he think is serious? Is that the political direction of the investigations? Is that the way the whistleblower handled it? Is that the fact that there's been a culture of fear in the Ministry? If he thinks this is serious, then the question is: how did this happen according to the VVD and who was responsible for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u42	This is an interruption with, I believe, eight questions. That's a big deal. I take the whistleblower very seriously. I think we're all doing that here. It is following the signal from this whistleblower that we say: we are going to look further, we need to look more closely what is going on, we really need to get a few layers deeper. I have no reason to doubt it, but we have to figure it out, because if this is true, then it is serious. I would like to repeat once again that any form of administrative, administrative and political control of scientific research is wrong. That's gotta stop. You have it as politics and governance to do with the outcome of the investigation. After that, the politician, the director and the official were discussed. I think it is important that we guarantee access to a future where it really is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u43	By asking who was responsible for this, I had hoped that Mr Rutte would put on a very small amount of the fine. Because it was under the leadership of the VVD that this superministry was founded and that really nothing was great at any time? It was okay to get rid of Bonnets. A professor was allowed to be dragged through the mud. Anything was allowed to polish and protect the image of the rulers. The truth had to give way to the image of the tough crime fighters of the VVD. My question was: who, according to Mr Rutte, is responsible for everything that has arisen? And how many more bodies are gonna fall out of the closet that's gonna bother this minister? Could Mr Rutte perhaps also give access to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u44	That is another barrage of questions from Mr Van Nispen, who has already drawn his own conclusions. I don't see that as a question. I think I'd better get on with my own argument. In my opinion, it is well known who the directors were during the period in which this took place. They're people of my political color. Everything that went well at the ministry during that period is due to them. If things haven't gone well, then so can they. The person in charge is no longer in this post. I also find it uncomfortable to make a comprehensive assessment of this at the moment. If Mr Van Nispen wants to call that out again, he must do so in particular. It will be election time, but I think I am quite clear: if this happens, then that is not true. Then the VVD doesn't agree with that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u45	Actually, I'd like to suggest that you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u46	The Minister of Justice, when we have everything in hand, then has the important task of taking the necessary measures, on the basis of these conclusions, to ensure that everyone can rely blindly on the investigations of the WODC over the next few decades. A number of colleagues have already mentioned it: then it is important that the facts really come out, that people dare to say, that they do not have to be afraid of repercussions when they report. How will the Minister guarantee the safety of the detectors? How does he ensure that reporting alleged abuses will not have repercussions? It is crucial that the Minister stands for this. The three investigations initiated by him must be brought to light and provide a solid foundation for important future choices that ensure the independence and credibility of the WODC and the Ministry of Justice and Security. Finally, I would like to hear from the Minister what timetable he envisages and how he intends to keep the Chamber connected with the choices to be made. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u47	Thank you very much. And well, thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Newshour broadcast of December 6 caused a wave of indignation, including with us. The WODC should be an independent research institute in terms of content. Everyone, including us in the Chamber, must be able to rely on the research to produce objective and reliable reports. If it turns out that political influence is taking place, even in violation of our own protocol, then we have a serious problem for the credibility of the WODC but also for the work we are doing here. Because the right facts play a crucial role in the debate. It is very important to restore confidence. So the bottom stone has to be above and it is good that the Minister now has three independent investigations. I can already hear someone say: isn't that a bit much, three different investigations? I don't think so. I think it's important. I think that all three things have had their own dynamics and should therefore be examined in depth separately. There is also Mrs Van Ooyen's letter. She is afraid that there is still a lot going on with these reports. I think it is important to take note of this and ensure that her concerns are addressed. But let it also be said immediately that we should not anticipate the conclusions in this debate and that it is actually a bit unfortunate that we are having this debate now. At the same time, we must give it some direction. Once again, however, we should not anticipate the conclusions, because then we are actually doing exactly the same thing as what is now the great reproach: there are investigations going on and politics is going to stir in them. I think we should be very careful about that. And at the same time... Ah!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u49	I'd say finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u50	But I went into a whole different block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u51	Okay. Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u52	What we do here is when people's representatives debate facts such as those that have emerged in a news broadcast, in a letter from a whistleblower. As far as I am concerned, that is of a totally different order than when a minister takes a position and has an investigation conducted that will be so deceived that it fits in with his judgement, which puts the Chamber at a disadvantage. That's totally different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u53	Of course, it's different when you look at these investigations. But I think that if we say to each other now that this research must be carried out and that it must be done independently, then it must be done mercilessly. The Minister then has to deal with it. If we say now "'we want this to be a bit the outcome of that investigation, we're going to see how there might be influence from the Ministry on the WODC, and for that we're going to say how it should be lifted later," I'm afraid of the following. I don't think that's the way we're supposed to figure things out. If we did that, we would not be making it safe for the future either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u54	In my opinion, there is nothing to prevent us from reaching a conclusion as a representative of the people on the basis of facts that have come to your attention. I really do see something quite different from anticipating the conclusions of an investigation. As far as my group is concerned, the whistleblower has raised the issue of the systematic existence of a particular culture. On that basis, you can at some point, I think, that this is what we are currently seeing, namely, that the WODC as an independent institution has suffered such a great dent that my group's confidence is not restored by these investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u55	I think it goes too far to anticipate that now. There is something else I can say about this and then I shall have some speaking time in the interruption, Mr President. I also find it worrying that the WODC is in this way in the bosom of the ministry. I also understand that there is a huge need to place it remotely. What I find a little worrying is that I actually think that the Minister is going to draw a conclusion from all the investigations, while the question as to whether this should be done might not really have been given a place in the investigation. So that's what I'd like. In any case, I would like that element to be taken into account much more carefully in the research and that it is not a sort of look at the outcome of the research. So I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u56	I have not heard Mrs Van Toorenburg say that she has doubts about the revelations of Nieuwsuur or what the whistleblower has said. That's good, because then we'll at least agree on that. I would be happy to support the Minister when he says: I want to investigate and I want this to get to the bottom of it. I can support the Minister in that, but it is difficult for Mrs Van Toorenburg to blame us for arguing that, for example, the WODC should be removed from the 14th floor of the Ministry? If you had asked me two months ago whether that was a healthy and desirable situation, I might have said that it was very clumsy, but what has now been revealed makes the necessity of course extra impregnating. So it is not so much anticipating investigations. I also find it regrettable that you are now pretending that we are doing the same thing as the VVD leadership did at the time, namely exercising political control over investigations. That's totally different! Surely you cannot believe that this is the same as what we are doing to build in certain safeguards to improve independence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u57	I said "we," so I said I'd do it myself. So it's not an accusation against others. Let me keep it to myself: I think I'm doing the same thing when I say now what should be the conclusion of an investigation. That's why I'm not going anywhere. I then think that we need to place these elements much more firmly in the research that needs to be done, but I simply do not want to anticipate the conclusions. I am also afraid that we are focusing too much on the idea that the solution lies in putting it at a distance, because there is also discussion about other issues, as Nieuwsuur has rightly pointed out. What happened at VWS and the Trimbos Institute research? That's remote, isn't it? Then I think: yes, then we push the WODC away, but then the problem is not solved at all. There is a whole problem surrounding a study done by a university. We're not gonna fix that either. That is why I say: let us not stare blindly at the thought that we have tackled that if we have already put the WODC at a distance. No, I think that should be included in the investigation. I am also thinking seriously about this after all, let there be no misunderstanding about it, but I do not want to say now that tomorrow the Minister will have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u58	Mrs Van Toorenburg's right not to take a stand on this and say: I await the investigations. Remote placing of the WODC is also not the solution to everything, which everyone acknowledges. It is therefore a good thing that we are seriously considering this, but as far as I am concerned, that should change. But then there is another point: we cannot wait for the results of the studies when it comes to the culture of fear, for example? Following one of these investigations, a hotline has been set up for judicial staff and former judicial staff. But who's gonna report there as long as that fear culture is around? We can't wait for that, can we? You also heard the union call. The whistleblower said some things about that. What guarantees do you think the Minister should give to ensure that people come forward? What guarantees do people get that they will not be negatively affected by the fact that they are going to report? What do you think of that? We have to anticipate that, don't we? We can't wait to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u59	In my view, Mr Van Nispen gives more words to the sentence I just said, namely that I think all the concerns of Mrs Van Ooyen should be taken seriously. These concerns relate mainly to the question: how do we ensure that people feel the freedom to report? But that too is not solved if you pick up the WODC from that floor tomorrow and water down somewhere else. Then the same people are there and I think she's been more afraid of her own executives than anything else around her. So it's not solved. That is why I keep saying: research it and also include the positioning of the WODC more firmly in the research. There are a number of things I would like to have included in that. I just don't want to say yet: and this is my conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u60	Do I understand correctly that Mrs Van Toorenburg is actually saying that we are broadening the three investigations that are going on with the question of where and how the WODC would be protected from the manipulative claws of the Ministry's summit on behalf of the Minister? Or does she want a fourth committee to investigate this? I do not see how the question you are asking about better guaranteeing physical, financial and, perhaps, human independence comes back to these three committees, because they are rather blocked in terms of research. How do you think you're gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u61	In my view, the Minister himself has already indicated that at least the second study has a somewhat broader appearance. I can imagine this being taken into account. If the minister thinks it cannot be taken into account, it will have to be involved, namely when it comes to the relationship between the WODC and the policy departments. I think this should be taken into account, and otherwise the research assignment should be extended. I think it is a very important point. Only today I hear everyone here saying: this is how it has to be done. We have to look at this seriously: should it be so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u62	As Members of this Parliament, we can also have opinions ourselves. Finally, we have also worked in various places, perhaps also in the civil service. We can have ideas about that. The question is: are we gonna sit back and say, 'We're gonna wait these three investigations first, and we're gonna see if we can get this from the second study'? This wouldn't be my idea. I just don't see how it can be done this way. I'm surprised you're so backward. Normally Mrs Van Toorenburg really has an opinion on things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u63	I don't see myself sitting back and b not having an opinion, but I can be wrong about that. I say I think the Minister should investigate this and then we should hear how he looks at it. Fine. Then I think it can be done in one of those investigations. If that's not possible, I'd like to hear it. Maybe I should file a motion myself to make sure we see where it's invested. As far as I am concerned, we are not now drawing the conclusion that we should put it at a distance and then have a few investigations done. I think we should look into it. And then we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u64	I can tell Mrs. Van Toorenburg...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u65	Wait a minute. I see Mr Azarkan having some doubts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u66	I would like to conclude with my colleague, Mr Van der Staaij, to be somewhat supportive. Measures can already be taken which can be taken in any case, even pending the investigation. Again, you can ask the Minister to investigate and then wait, but these are serious violations; this is about trust in investigations. This is also about how we as a parliament can carry out our task on the basis of reports. I think it is serious when you say: well, we ask the Minister; we wait another month or three, four and then we talk again. But we'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u67	I find this a little special. We are having a debate here because we think that the WODC should be placed remotely. That's what the debate is about. Some people are already convinced of that in advance. I say I want it investigated. Mr Azarkan will then bounce here and say that it is very serious and that it is all very problematic. That is exactly what I said in my introduction. I hate what happened here. I come from science, so I might find it even worse than the average Dutchman. But that doesn't mean we have to draw conclusions now. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u68	I share Mrs Van Toorenburg's view that we should not draw conclusions in advance. Only, in the three studies that have now been proposed, it is not proposed that we should look at the various advantages and disadvantages of, for example, a planning agency, as I mentioned, or a foundation, such as a number of centres of knowledge. Can I understand Mrs Van Toorenburg in such a way that she says that she actually wants these investigations to be extended, not only with a look back at the relationship between the WODC and the policy departments, but also with the question of how you could otherwise reorganise the WODC and what are its advantages and disadvantages?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u69	I think Mrs. Van Toorenburg just...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u70	... almost the same thing said. Just the word "others" I'd like to get out. So: how it should be organized to ensure that it can deliver independent and impartial research. Mrs Buitenweg did again what we should not do, namely ask: how else could it be? I wasn't there yet. That's the only light between us, Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u71	Well, the difference is that you wish this investigation to give one answer, when I think: how should it be? It would be good to have the various advantages and disadvantages of different models in a row, after which we could see what we would like to do. That's why I'm saying how else to do it. Then there are several options.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u72	Our unspoken chairman rightly says to me: you just mean the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u73	In that case, the research assignment must be adapted accordingly. And then we wait for the Minister's response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u74	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u75	Let's see where I left off, Mr. Chairman. I mentioned Mrs Van Ooyen's concerns. I don't need to discuss that part of the WODC anymore. There's something else. We also talked about the National Institute of Scientific Integrity. The minister says he wants to see if the WODC could be connected. Actually, he says he wants to take that into account in the results of the investigation. I also think you should include it in the investigation. Otherwise, you're gonna have another investigation and an outcome, and then you're gonna drop something off somewhere. So see if seriously the issue should be that the WODC is connected to it. I'd like to hear that from the Minister. We have already raised many points today. I thought a few points were a bit special. In the written round we had, we read that there will be no reports from the trusted person in 2013. Apparently that wasn't a priority; there was no time for that and the leadership was okay with that. That's very worrying. There is no report, but I do think it is important that some reporting is available when investigating complaints. I think it is important for the Ministry to make every effort to get into the hands of the Committee of Inquiry, otherwise it will have nothing at all. I think that is another important point. We asked questions about the Visitation Committee, which concluded that no abuses had been reported in 2014. However, the recommendation was made to update a protocol. We remain unclear as to why that happened. Perhaps the Minister can say something about that today. The protocol was then updated and something special happened. I went to see what was going on. I went into all those pieces and then I actually got a Fyraher experience. What was it all about? We have some documents. I have six here; this is the pile of documents we have. These are annual reports of the trusted person and the coordinator of integrity. But then we also have the Guide Trusts of 50 pages and the Handleking report integrity violations and abuses of 20 pages. Then we have the Model internal complaint handling of nearly 20 pages and the Model instruction practice integrity violations of 38 pages. They're all about similar things. These are very important topics, but when I read this like this, I think: it's like the Fyra. We're gonna have him all right on paper, but he's not driving. And what do I read in the annual reports? Actually, the integrity person and the confidant themselves already say: it is a lot of paperwork and we don't really know how to implement them quickly, because it still has to pass the GOR and the DOR and I know a lot of who. We're not gonna win the war with this piece of paper. Mr Van Nispen tells it so colourful in the Chamber: how are we going to do this for the ordinary people in the execution? An average paw'er must also understand where he is going with his piece, with his confidant and his integrity. I can tell you: he reads this never and he won't know where to go. So how are we going to do this so that the average hard-working civil servant who is just worried about his daily work can get away with it? In fact, I have said everything, except that I find it regrettable and also worrying that we are now seven weeks away and actually only have the chairmen of the committees. But if I have heard the Chamber today, we would like to add something to that, so it is perhaps a good thing that we haven't slammed everything up yet. Apparently, there is still some need for movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u76	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u77	Madam President. At the WOCD good people work, who stand for solid reports. Unfortunately, there have been worrying signs of possible political direction lately. This is a serious matter, because it has been said unanimously by the Chamber and the Cabinet that scientific integrity must be beyond doubt. Those signals of political direction can undermine the authority of the investigations. That is why it is very good that the Minister has said that there will be thorough investigations. After everything that has already been exchanged, I have two short, factual questions. The first question is: what is the timetable? And the second is: how is it guaranteed that there can really be safely reported? I've heard that back in questions from colleagues. I would be sorry if we said: okay, we ask some factual questions about the investigations, we have to wait and stop until all the investigations are there. Because I think it's a good opportunity too. I found it very interesting to see in the answer to the questions that list of all public knowledge institutes. There are interesting institutions such as the KNMI and the RIVM. Then you think: yes, that's true, they're actually related to the WODC in a way. So we can also ask what opportunities there are for additional safeguards to strengthen scientific integrity, precisely learning from others. We now have a great opportunity to take action. As far as I am concerned, we do not necessarily have to wait because there is research going on and we are waiting for the results. Why not do what can already be done now and what are good measures already? There was just some discussion with Mrs Van Toorenburg about placing it at a distance. I can understand waiting for that to happen when your research expands and questions arise as to whether something is smart or not. Then you're right. Well, then it makes sense to wait for those tests. I would like to wait for what follows logically from those studies, but if that is not the case and there are general and fine measures or opportunities to strengthen that scientific independence, then we should not abandon those opportunities. Thinking about this, you often come back to the fact that it is about legal positioning in terms of independence. It happens in different ways. The physical aspect has also been mentioned. Isn't it better to place something literally, practically and factually at a distance? It happens all the time. It seems to me personally, without reading any great dissertations about it, very logical. You can put people very close together if you want them to work together very well and to have them aligned exactly with each other. If you think it is important that there is a certain distance from the practice, it is wise to put something literally at a distance. I think that is a very general wisdom. Wouldn't that be wise in this case, too? If others want to have that investigated and have the pros and cons put together, that's fine. I don't think that's what it's all about. It's important to look at that. As far as I am concerned, this is also unrelated to what exactly comes out of those investigations about what actually went wrong. It's a more general and broader point. In addition to legal and physical distance, I refer in the third place to financial distance. Are there long-term financing agreements, so that no action can be taken by means of the money tap in the event of displeasure? I think this is also important for independence. I'd like to hear what's already possible. I'd like it if the Minister didn't just say, "Wait for the investigations." If there are things that can already be done, then we must not leave them. I've done a round myself around people who know about this, looking for tile wisdom. What is really important for independent research? One thing often came forward and I liked that: leaders with spines. That's a very important one for research institutes. They must be able to say: I fully understand that there are other interests, but it is my job to be independent, and that is what I stand for. This seems to me to be an extremely important point of attention in the management of all kinds of research institutes. Finally. Just when you look at other public knowledge organisations, I would like to make the concrete suggestion that they are looking for a discussion with each other about strengthening their culture of independence. In my view, for example, the CPB....................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is quite capable of resisting political pressure, and it is sometimes quite good from the Chamber or the Cabinet. This applies, for example, to the transfer of programmes. Surely it would be very nice if the CPB could talk to those other knowledge organisations in order to promote a piece of common self-reflection? Learning from others and learning from each other is a cultural measure, also about good governance in healthcare institutions and about integrity policy, which is always emerging. Talk to each other and learn from each other. I'd like to ask the Minister if he can give that another boost. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u78	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u79	Mr. Chairman. Trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. I don't know if this has already been inserted. It is an act of death, but it is also very true in this debate. This is a serious matter, especially when it comes to matters of trust and of matters that we have frequently debated in this House. We know that confidence in politicians is low. But it is precisely the institutions around us that need to support and feed society's trust in policy. Then it's about judges. Then it's about independent bodies. And then it's about science. If that science is no longer independent and we can no longer rely on it, it affects all of us and we all have a big problem. There's a second reason why this hits us so hard and pisses us off. That's because it's also about big issues in society. It's about drugs. You can make that very small, but it's also about organized crime. How do we fight them effectively? What investigations are available? Have we lost precious time because we were manipulating instead of the truth and doing sensible things with each other? These two elements mean that we have a very serious debate together today. My colleagues have said very sensible and good things today, firstly about the fact that you already have to do what you can do now. Can you join the LOWI, for example? Is there anything you can do about the distance between the Ministry and the WODC itself? Can you learn from other institutions? Are there any measures you can take in the short term? In response to the letter, the Minister says, "Give me time." I'm willing to give him that time, but how long will that take? Do we have that time? Can we wait that long? Because in the meantime, the WODC is dangling with all kinds of other investigations. Can we trust them or do we distrust them? Nor do I rule out the need for further research on the basis of the studies that are now under way. After all, it is and remains a sample. So does that give you enough guarantees? So what's the timeline? Can we not already draw lessons from other institutions that we have, precisely because trust is so incredibly important? A fair question was asked by Madeleine van Toorenburg. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked how we ensure that what we want to know about the placement of the WODC, the independence of the WODC, is sufficient in the investigations. After all, it is more about the scientific standard than about the placement and relationship between government, politicians and policy. That is a sincere question from me to the Minister. Everything comes back to the question of how we can be sure that the investigations we get from this important institute are independent. This calls for action now and later. That calls for an independent look. That also requires something from the Ministry and the people who work there. We are now constantly talking about the WODC as if it is something we have placed at a distance and as if it is done with that. But it's about the culture of the minister and the people who serve the minister. How can they think time and time again that it is wise to influence? How can it be that they can disguise, disguise and destroy what they do not think appropriate for you, Minister, or for the ministers who come after you? What are they gonna do? What steps are they going to take in terms of their own integrity, their own integrity protocols and their own working methods to ensure that this can no longer happen, whether it is about the WODC or something else? 'Cause this probably wasn't the first time. Maybe it won't be the last time either. This calls for a different attitude and thinking of all officials working in the Ministry and for a different way of steering. I still miss that in the letter we received from the Minister. I have a specific suggestion, Mr President. For example, we have seen in the report of the Research Council on Security that the OVV correctly indicated where it was asked to amend research and what was done with those requests for amendment, including footnotes. The OVV has made this clear and transparent for the Ministry. Isn't that wise? I think that's something we can learn from. This shows what the Ministry does not agree with and what the research institute, in this case the WODC, has followed up on and where not. The knife cuts both ways. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I have to conclude, so for the sake of short, I would like to join with all the questions that have been asked about culture, the culture of fear and not being able to report it to employees. In my opinion, these are very legitimate questions, which I would like to join. Finally, the position of the whistleblower. Anyone who raises any wrongdoing needs to be safe and safe. A lot of questions have been asked about it. I also like to join in that. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u80	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u81	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. We are talking tonight about the independence of the research institute WODC. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the debate is about trust, confidence in independent research and trust in the government. In my contribution I will talk about trust, the distance between the WODC and the Ministry, the scientific integrity and the culture within the Ministry. Mr. Chairman. First of all, that confidence. Can people trust that decisions taken by the government that directly affect them will be made on the basis of independent, reliable and honest research? Can the House of Representatives trust that the results of investigations will not be censored or souffled by the official or administrative summit of a department, when the real results do not come out so well? These are important questions. In our view, people should be able to rely on the government not to turn the facts into its own hands if that is the case. We must not take that trust lightly. Now that the integrity of the WODC is at stake, confidence in the government is also at stake. If research is not really independent, if results are embellished or withheld, they are mainly used to support one's own equal. Here in the Chamber, we are allowed to differ. Here we can choose one side and let one fact weigh more heavily than the other, as long as we leave the facts to the facts. Even if the results of an investigation don't suit you well, the facts speak for themselves. We need to be able to rely on that, but that has now become a question of doubt. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group is very pleased that the Minister has launched investigations into a case brought to light by Nieuwsuur and the whistleblower. We will have to wait for the results before we can make a final assessment of the reports under attack. I wanted to ask whether there is also access to all the underlying correspondence between the WODC, the researchers and the ministry, but today the Minister confirmed in the letter that this is the case. That is a good thing. Mr. Chairman. The Minister will examine the best position for the WODC to ensure its independence. He states that this depends on the results of the investigations. But when we look at the overview of public knowledge organisations that the Rathenau Institute has established, it is striking that the WODC departmental is housed, a form in which independence seems to be the least secured. Is it therefore not wise and worth considering in the way of organisation to better express the independence of the WODC? It could also look at how this can be organised legally, at the flows of money, at the physical but also at how it is organised at other institutions. I ask the Minister to include this in the investigation and in his deliberations. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, all options remain open, focusing on how best to guarantee independence. So keeping all options open also means looking at the option to place the WODC remotely. Mr. Chairman. The Code of Conduct Integrity Rijk sets rules for officials involved in independent investigations. I took that code of conduct. It refers to the Dutch Code of Conduct for Science Practice of the VSNU. That code of conduct focuses on six principles of proper scientific practice. Is the Minister prepared to explore how these principles of proper scientific practice can be better anchored within the WODC? Surely this has the W of Scientific in its name for a reason? How is peer review designed within the scientific practice of the WODC? Mr. Chairman. The Code of Conduct Integrity Rijk also refers to the National Body of Scientific Integrity, the LOWI. Why is the WODC not part of that now and will the Minister consider doing so? Mr. Chairman. Then culture. The Christian Union is concerned about the culture within the Ministry of Justice and Security. It is good that the complaint handling is now being investigated, but the whistleblower speaks very clearly about an "unsafe environment" and even advises people not to report cases. That's not good, and it has to be different. The Christian Union welcomes today's letter from the Minister, in which he states his personal commitment to an open culture and a safe working environment in which people feel the space and feel safe to report violations of integrity. There is a great responsibility there. I should like to leave it at that in this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u82	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u83	Mr President, thank you. "'What's true?"' If I used to drive home on Friday afternoon, I'd listen to this program by Henk Westbroek. I see a number of colleagues nodding. I had to think about that in the broadcast of Nieuwsuur: what is true? This also applies to government reports. Is it true what's in those reports? Or does it say, above all, what the officials have forced to do, because it fits in the Minister's style? Mr. Chairman. What the WODC did under pressure from the top of the ministry looks like the fabrication of fake science. It's not fake news, it's fake science. The WODC was under pressure and commissioned by the official summit of the Ministry of Justice and Security and therefore formally did so on behalf of the Minister. That's kind of bad. In fact, that is extremely bad. Institutions that are supposed to guard trust in the rule of law, by their own behaviour, stirred up distrust of government and the rule of law. The essential question is: can we as a parliament rely on those reports with which we have to control the government? Can we, as Members of Parliament, trust that we will have investigations that are valid, reliable and unmanipulated? Mr. Chairman. Thanks to Mrs. Van Ooyen, this manipulation is now coming to the table very hard. We first had the problem with the receipt of Teeven, recently the corruption at the works council and the role of Justice and Security and now the manipulated research reports. The influence of the crimefighters of the VVD seems disastrous. That's why DENK thinks this minister should clean up. Minister Grapperhaus has to clean up the VVD's mess. Mr. Chairman. The real problem with this fake science is culture. This has been denounced here a number of times. This is not about the WODC, this is about manipulative behavior of officials at the top of the ministry. How do we put this culture together? Here's the thing: when you clap out of school, just say goodbye with your hand. Say goodbye to your research: you'll just be taken off rücksichtslos. Say goodbye to follow-up. If I quote it correctly, you can even see that a junior investigator suddenly becomes the lead investigator. Say goodbye to your career. In short, reporting a failure is actually a form of suicide. Mr. Chairman. You don't change that culture with rules and promises. That's the same thing as one of those inaccessible boss who always says, "My door is always open!" That just doesn't work. We warmly welcome the Minister's inquiries, but DENK also has a number of concrete suggestions for the Minister. Please respond to some of those suggestions. Could it be compulsory to discuss possible influences on research projects during the annual interview, both with the top officials and with the researchers? Let that be the subject of the annual interview and make sure that the results are determined in black and white. The following suggestion: have researchers and clients sign for each report. CEOs of large companies also have to sign the annual figures of a company and are responsible if the figures have been cheated. In America, they're even liable. This system should also apply to public investigations. Have researchers and clients transparently sign a statement in which they undertake that no undue influence has taken place. Kind of a statement of honor and conscience. And then the last suggestion: make the money flows and the process transparent. Transparency, that's the point. Make an overview of all drafts for each report and make sure they are accessible to everyone, with a link to a web address. Give an overview of the people who were removed from the investigation during the trial and give the reason for that. And include in every government report a financial responsibility: who has received what to participate in the investigation? Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with a comment about whistleblowers. The people reporting are heroes. Mrs. Van Ooyen is such a hero. She had the nerve to be a whistleblower. I'd like to offer her a flower virtually. It is sad that most whistleblowers in the Netherlands often go badly. It is sad that hotlines often do not work because people know that the culture is suffocating and they will be excluded. That's why DENK wants the minister to change the culture of the WODC and the ministry. We want a safe and reliable culture. We call on the Minister to come up with a genuine plan of action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u84	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u85	We will continue the debate on the independence of the research institute WODC. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u86	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the spokesmen for their input. I hope that I have listened carefully to the wishes of the Chamber and I assure you that I will ensure that the three committees have the report of this debate so that they can take that into account when carrying out the tasks assigned to them. The debate we are having today is about the essence of justice: the integrity of the officials working in my department and also my own integrity, and the independence of the WODC, which must be beyond any doubt. Let me start by saying that the WODC is really important to the department. Excellent researchers work at the WODC. The WODC provides the department's knowledge needs. In the last five years, for example, it has carried out or commissioned around 500 investigations. Two of these cases have now been called into question. That is sufficient reason for me to get to the bottom of this, because I think that integrity and independence should be beyond any doubt, but also because the quality of policies and regulations that are evidence-based depends on sound scientific research and on the availability of objective data. This was rightly mentioned by a number of Members in the first term. We must be able to rely on that when we are making policies with each other in the Chamber. That integrity must also be beyond any doubt, I believe, because that is the only way in which a fair playing field can be established between the Chamber and the Minister. You understand that these matters affect me personally, as a scientist. In fact, I think the nice thing is that I would almost like to put it this way, but at least the uplifting thing about science is that you answer the question without forced premises. I am therefore committed to reaffirming the trust placed in the WODC after the positive reports of the Visitation Committees, in 2006 by the Schuyt Committee and in 2014 by the Prins Committee. The importance of the WODC and the importance of independent research results are therefore, if I have listened carefully in the first period, fully in agreement. But then things didn't go well. I will answer the first question from the honourable Member, Mr Van Nispen, at the moment he is going to stand for an interruption. Things didn't go well. We saw an exchange of mail in the broadcast of Newsuur in December which called up an image that at least gives the impression of an attempt at improper influence and therefore, in my opinion, justifies further investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u87	I think that the Minister has made a lot of justified, good comments, but I would like to ask a question on one point already. The Minister said: after the positive visits from 2006 and 2014. They weren't just positive. In reply to written questions, the Minister quoted this somewhat selectively and I forgive him, but it also states, for example, that in 2014 the Visitation Committee ruled: "The WODC is not a scientific institution, but part of the Ministry serving the policy. Science as not a purpose but a 'tool'''. That was also said about the WHOC in 2014. Then the question is: what was done with it in 2014? In other words, the revelations of Nieuwsuur are not quite falling out of the sky, because the visitation committee has been very critical in 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u88	Well, what Mr Van Nispen refers to there is not so much criticism of the substance of the operation as of the positioning of the WODC. That is the tension that I believe has been raised by Mrs Buitenweg. I shall come back to that later in answering the questions that some of you have asked: should you not look at the KNAW standards or the LOWI standards? I too have scratched myself a little bit in my case that goes easily on the head. How are you supposed to handle that tension field? Of course, that tension field is a bit in it, because the WODC is not a university that has its own resources and its own position in, for example in my former case, Maastricht, to name but a few. So let me put it this way: I understand the point made by Mr Van Nispen. I will come back to that, but I would like to say first of all that this is not so much about the content...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u89	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u90	Just finishing that little point: of course there are critical notes from the visitation committee, but my appreciation of that report was that it was a predominantly positive report. But I was in the process of saying something in my speech, but also answering Mr Van Nispen's first question. That is a very important question. You may hold me to it, it is also the first thing I said in Nieuwsuur on the question of the presenter: things did not go well. We have seen in the broadcast of Nieuwsuur the e-mail exchange, which evoked the image of at least appearances of an attempt at improper influence. That justifies further investigation. You will hear me say that very carefully: appearance of an attempt to influence. I understand that you expect me to speak out about what I think and what I do not think, that I already have a partial incomplete assessment of what is going on. But I'm not gonna do that today. I did not do that in the letters of December and this afternoon. That may have been extremely boring for the outsider, but I think that the last thing I have to do is not to ask whether you consider it to be Members of Parliament. You have a very different position. I also respect that Mrs Helder says: I do not think we should be modest at all. That certainly doesn't have to be with me, but with that aside. But I think I should. I have to be modest and the last person to say something about what happened is this person, the Minister of Justice and Security. The ''what', the 'how' and the 'when exactly' I first have proper research and independent evaluation. Because the context is missing, but also because we are talking about a number of years ago. I think you should have that all in a clear row and that it should be validated by an external party. That's why I announced the same evening, at Nieuwsuur on the air, that this really needs to be investigated independently. That doesn't affect the journalist's performance in presenting certain things. That's not the point. Now, as Minister of Justice, I have to have that investigated independently. You have also heard from me, Mr President, that I also said in general consultation on 19 December in connection with the growing of weed, that I am also asking only the chairmen of the committees. I can tell you that those presidents have already gone much further in proposing members. The committees are almost full, but I did not get involved. There are three investigations. The scope of these investigations is very broad in relation to each other. I would like to say out loud so that it is stated in the report that I want to give the three committees the freedom to carry out the research entrusted to them properly and to give them the opportunity to reach their own judgment. Only then will I respond to the findings in substance. Now my motto is: first research or have it examined, then conclusions. That fits in with careful judgment, and I hope you will understand that. You also saw that in the letter I sent to the Chamber this afternoon in response to the questions put by the Member of Parliament, Mr Van Nispen, I also indicated that the committee could, as far as I am concerned, see all the draft reports and all the internal communications it wishes to see. I therefore share the Court's wish to clarify the facts. That is why I would like to make another point: it also calls on all staff to report all relevant information or to raise possible abuses in relation to policy research. I would like to stress again and again that the protection under the whistleblower scheme is fully in force. Soon, when many of you ask questions about culture and the concerns about culture of fear, I will also go into more detail about how and what. In particular, I will indicate how I intend to commit to this. In this context, I would like to say that a complaint on the same subject has recently been made about the WODC. It's been treated. I also notified it to the independent Committee of Inquiry 2. It is still informal, because of course that committee still needs to be formally installed. That is the committee chaired by Professor Hertogh. With this we also want to show that we really take that hotline seriously and that we don't then throw things that come in now, somewhere in a pile. In addition, I would like to inform you that two complaints concerning the JenV inspection have been received. One of those two concerns the integrity of research conducted. In accordance with the applicable procedure, it has been decided to seek an opinion on the merits of that complaint. Because it concerns the inspection it will be done by a party that is at a distance from the department. That's the Audit Service, the Empire, the ADR. He'll look into it. Depending on the investigation, I'll keep the relevant inspection report. So I won't offer it to the Chamber yet. I would like to say to the House that in due course I will send her a letter containing the results of that ADR study and an answer to the question of how this will be followed up, so that we have full transparency about it. I'm not going to say anything about that now, because then I'm going to get involved again. But I want to make it absolutely clear that this is also happening. Back to the committees. I believe that there is no doubt about the absolute independence of the chairmen of those committees. The Presidents have now put together their own committees or almost put them together. I believe there is one person missing from the three committees. In consultation with the committees, it shall be considered how much time they need. I believe that I have also answered the question put by Mr Rutte on the timetable for a responsible conclusion of the investigation. The chairmen of the committees are fully aware of the importance of speedy implementation and completion. As soon as there is more information on the planning of the committees, I will inform your Chamber. If you are unhappy with this time schedule, then perhaps you can talk to me there, because they are independent committees in this House. In the meantime, WODC studies are ongoing and new WODC studies will be launched. I would like to say that the employees involved are actively informed on my own initiative of what is expected of them on the basis of the 2016 WODC Protocol: ensuring independence. JenV's objective is to change that my ministry is growing into an open and transparent organisation. We were on our way with that, but there is still a part of that path to go. In order to achieve this goal, it is an essential prerequisite that has been rightly raised a number of times today that people are working in a safe working environment. Also safe when things aren't right. Anyone can make a mistake. Making a mistake means there's a learning moment and not a criminal expedition. I will therefore exercise restraint in the debate with your Chamber when it comes to the functioning of individual officials. A few people have said something about that. I'm not going to go into that, because that's not fair. People can't defend themselves in the public domain and I'm responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u91	Mr. Chairman. I just heard the Minister screaming about the cultural change that has taken place. Is it true that the current highest official, the sg, already knew about this file in 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u92	The complaint file now under investigation by the Aid Committee contains all the facts and all the e-mails from the years 2016-2017. I think that the Aid Committee should simply assess who knew what and what that means for the question of whether the complaint procedure has been formal and substantively correct. And then you will hear that I am not going to go into that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u93	Mr. Azarkan still? No. Then Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u94	The current culture of fear in the ministry was not caused by this minister, but rightly he says that he has the responsibility to do something about it and that people should be free to report things that are not right. What guarantees can the Minister give to, for example, those who sit at home looking at people who work or who have worked in the department and who suspect and want to report a miscarriage? Can the Minister make an even clearer appeal to those people to come forward and guarantee that there will never be any negative consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u95	Yes. I'd like to say a few things about that. I have said that is the public domain, so I am not going to tell you anything new about culture after a few weeks on a question from one of the journalists. During the first month I had enormous contacts with officials in the framework of the deployment programme. There were a few things in my ministry that I didn't know so much about. I myself have gained the experience that there was an openness of officials, regardless of their hierarchical position, to have input into conversations and to provide criticism, including towards me. But then I noticed that it is doubtful whether culture has been developed in such a way that this openness is experienced by people everywhere in the same way. That is a point of criticism that I take note of. It is a bit in the atmosphere of what the Member of Parliament Buitenweg observed about my enthusiasm. "'Tiptop"' isn't really my expression, by the way, but I thought it was pretty good. I didn't mean to say that, but I did experience that what I saw at the ministry didn't correspond to what I thought I saw at a distance two or three years ago as an outsider, namely a very closed culture. Except we're not there yet. Now you ask me what I should do about it. First of all, I think that I and the people who are higher up in the organisation should show that this safe working environment is there. This is not only reassuring broadcasters that there is a whistle-blower system, but also in contacts with people. Now I'm gonna go to training. Mr. Azarkan has mentioned, among other things, functional interviews. There are all ideas about that. What we are currently working on is to include the issue of top-down openness in the training of civil servants and further training, i.e. it is open to the public and dare to use that openness in the bottom-up. And that sounds a bit abstract, of course. Sounds like it needs a course. But it takes a while to reassure people that they can actually work very well and at the same time say: what happens here cannot be done at all in view of the rules or the way the world works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u96	I understand that a culture change takes time, but we don't have that time. We must now give these people safety and make it clear that they must come forward. The Minister acknowledges that we have not yet arrived, but under his responsibility the following has happened. The integrity coordinator called the whistleblower. He didn't just ask: how are you? But he also asked: who leaked your letter? So they were looking for the people who leaked and made it come out. This is more in line with a culture of settlement and repression than with the openness which the Minister, of course, wants so much and for which he is going to make a personal commitment, he has promised. What does the Minister think of that and can he explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u97	Yeah, I can explain that. I was slightly renovated when I heard that in yesterday's broadcast. I talked about that this morning. In any event, the observation on the part of the integrity coordinator that the whistleblower itself was displeased with the fact that what she herself did not want to make public was indeed made public. That is what she said yesterday in the programme. The integrity coordinator called her in response to a letter of displeasure she sent to the deputy director of the WODC. The Integrity Coordinator said that we are concerned that this has happened. Firstly, there will be an independent complaints committee, which has become the Aid Committee, and we hope that you will be able to tell us your whole story there, and we will stay out of it. He then said: we are prepared to find out how that was done with the leaks, but then we need to know who you have submitted certain documents to. This is how it was done, at least in the opinion of the integrity coordinator. He also said, in the e-mail correspondence, "Listen, if you do not want to, I understand that too, and we will leave it at that. I would like to stress that I understand very well that the whistleblower, in view of what she had already experienced, was suspicious of that. But the intention of the integrity coordinator has not been wrong there. And I say again that he then left it at that. I can assure you that no investigation has been carried out into who else that would have been. In any case, that is not the culture I advocate; I would like to say this out loud. But Mr Van Nispen asked if I could explain this. This is what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u98	Just before there were interruptions, I heard the Minister say: the change in culture was well underway and was well underway. My question is, where did that turn out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u99	Well, I started to put that on the basis of my own experience in the first month. In this I have worked a lot with officials at all levels to get involved in the files. I noticed that, let me say, there was a good culture between managers and lower civil servants. So I noticed that it was not the case that people would not dare to express themselves in discussions. I have just said that this is a rather limited field of view and only a first impression. That is why I say: I think there is certainly another way forward. I would also like to say that this afternoon I wrote to your Chamber that I personally committed myself to the officials: let us carry this forward in the coming months. Mr Van Nispen said: there is no time for that. Through you, Mr President, I say to him: the principle must be that I do not use my fist to say to the people: in five minutes, everyone will be out of fear. It doesn't work. We will have to go in a good way with each other, that people really gradually see that it is just an open, normal working culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u100	I have no doubt the Minister's research skills to determine what that culture is like. I just think that as an actor, he's inciting a certain behavior. So is it an idea, I ask the Minister through you, to have a study of how this cultural change has developed over the past two years, just objectively, by researchers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u101	I think we will certainly have a further evaluation of the JenV project in time to see what has worked well, what has not worked well and how far we are. I wouldn't want to include that in this trajectory. I am also prepared to tell you, for example, that after the summer I come up with something, because then I am really busy for a long time and I have nine months to sit on it; that is perhaps a nice period to say: these are my experiences with how that project seems to stand. Again, I wouldn't like to go into these stories, especially since we're talking about a very beautiful scientific institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u102	I just needed to get the news working on me. The Minister is reporting to the Chamber tonight that complaints about the inspection have also been received, I understand. I understand that the Minister says he's going to have that investigated and can't say anything about it for the rest, but I also raised the question in the first term: isn't it wise to look a little wider within the government? There are research clubs, inspections and all kinds of institutes that deal in a certain way with what you may call independent research. Now there seem to be more reports. How does the Minister view this? Isn't it wise to look a little wider?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u103	First of all, the fact that an organisation occasionally receives a complaint under the complaints system and that it is being dealt with seems to me to be a good thing, because then we know that people dare to complain according to those procedures. So that's one. I reported it to you, because I would be very sorry if I didn't report it to you and in a few weeks' time tell you another way: hey, there is also a complaint at the inspection. Again, that complaint that would relate to research influence is now being properly investigated by the State Audit Service. Now to the question of extending it. You literally asked about the relationship investigation versus government. How I think it should go is that the policy is going to apply to the WODC, but I think you can put that more generally, I think the research institute WODC is asking for a particular research to be carried out. The WODC may decide to do so itself or to outsource it externally. One investigation of the original two was done by the WODC itself, the other was outsourced. Policy can provide input on the content of that research assignment when it is forgiven, because one knows where the knowledge needs exist and also what has been agreed with the Chamber on what needs to be investigated. Then the investigation begins. As far as I'm concerned, I'm only talking as a scientist, if that's okay with you, then the researchers can still be in touch with policy during the research, is: are the facts correct in this way? 'Cause otherwise, you're investigating on the basis of wrong facts. But, and now it comes, the research conclusions are fully managed by the researchers. That's how the relationship works, I think, and you shouldn't deviate from that. I assume that this is also the starting point, but I leave that to the researchers of the committees of inquiry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u104	I agree with the Minister's statement on how this relationship should be. I also agree with him, at least I understand him, when he says that it is a good thing that at least there are reports, because then they can be investigated. My point, however, is another one. I suppose it's an assumption, but I think it's a safe assumption that these reports might have something to do with the fact that a whistleblower has come forward and that a lot of publicity has been given to it. The question that then arises is: do we not have a broader problem than just the WODC and is it not wise to look at the problem in width?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u105	Well, look, we've got one possibility here that we don't know yet. That does not mean that we should go and see if there is an epidemic, because then there must be signs of it. Back to the research institutes themselves. I said at the beginning that there were doubts about two WODC investigations. Then, as the Minister responsible, I think that we should simply investigate this carefully. I think that's my responsibility to make sure that's okay. I will certainly take the point on board in the Council of Ministers as to whether it would be worth looking more broadly at research institutes connected with departments, but for the time being I feel that I have a duty, a responsibility, to have the doubts that have arisen about the WODC properly investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u106	The minister says that policy indicates to the WODC what the investigation should be about. Often that instruction goes much further. It is also specifically about what the exact research question is. It's already got control. My question is, as I asked in my introduction, whether that precise instruction of policy is public.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u107	You mean the instruction... I need to understand the question. You mean to say: is the rule public? It's in protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u108	The start note, is it public? For example, we saw it in the drug report. In my view, not only did the Ministry ask whether it is possible to have a drugs policy as we have in the Netherlands, or with more regulation of weed, but there was a very specific demand: can the drug treaties, the anti-drug treaties? While the same researchers later also did a study in which they looked at the human rights aspects and came to a completely different conclusion. So the direction is not only in the questioning, but also in the framework of the research. This is probably done in your vision by policy. Is this policy instruction therefore public information sent to the Chamber, along with the final investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u109	Those start notes aren't public. Those are just preliminary internal working documents. They are developed internally or externally in a research plan and that is the lead for the research to be carried out. If that research plan is in place, that initial note is further out of date. That's kind of a first setup, I'll say. Look, "'start note' is then the concept that is being used here.I had to get used to that too.But of course, what it's all about, whether written or oral, in a start note or in e-mails, is that it shouldn't be the case that policy against research says: this must be the outcome of your research. That is, of course, the central point. That's the test of improper influence. I think you attach too much importance to the starting note in itself. Once again, that is a kind of working document in which research is increasingly formulated and delineated at some point, so to speak, "that's the research." But again, whether it's in a start note, an email, an app or a know-it-all-what-you-know-what, there shouldn't be a situation where people say: would you please come up with those conclusions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u110	Finally, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u111	It is quite fundamental, because also in the report of the Visitation Committee it was said that those starting notes.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You can check it out. It's note 25 in the report. As a scientist, I also love nuts. There it is. How do you see that? Because apparently these starting notes are essential and are perceived by researchers as biased, leading, binding and as a straitjacket.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u112	I think that is a point which the first committee, the Overgaauw Committee, will have to deal with. It will have to look at the question which, as you know, has been extended by me: does the researcher now have the freedom to do his research and is there not a straitjacket, improper influence or do I know much what? This committee of inquiry led by the former Vice-President of the Supreme Court must tell us definitively whether or not. In any case, your question is in the report, so to speak. Then we know that it is also absolutely included. That's what I'm all about and all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u113	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u114	I had begun to answer a number of questions, Madam President. I hope we have said enough about improving culture and helping people experience a safe working environment where they can also express their complaints. I have said that I regard this as a personal objective. Then I come to a point on which the honourable Member, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Azarkan and some others have spoken, namely whether you could improve that scientific integrity without waiting for the investigations. I would like to repeat that the WODC has conducted 500 investigations over the last five years. There are now doubts about two. That is enough reason to do research, but that is not enough reason to question all or a majority of the investigations. With this you do the WODC and the people who work there great injustice in the sense that we have just established with each other: let's really investigate that independently first. I share Mrs Van Toorenburg's thought: let us not jump to conclusions, as the Americans say. Because that's what you'd really do if you did that here. Let's take a look at each other and see what comes out of those investigations. In the meantime, in the light of what I have heard from many, I would like to say that in the near future I will go into scientific codes of conduct in parallel with these investigations. The LOWI has been mentioned. Krol was talking about the KNAW. I'll see what the field of possibilities is and what might be appropriate for the WODC to join, apart from all kinds of codes and other things that the WODC is already connected to. I have a whole list of them, but of course I can't find them right now. I would like to assure you that I will be working on this in the near future, especially to Van der Staaij, who expressed the concern: we are not going to do those investigations, and then there will be those, after which Minister Grapperhaus will think about it for a long time? No, it shouldn't be. Anyway, that's what I said. I have already written and also want to say that I actively try to make people aware of the main rule of the protocol: keep policy and research apart. We are going to investigate exactly how this has happened in the last year and a half. I need to see what I haven't answered. Scientific integrity. Start notes. All kinds of suggestions have been made to place the WODC on larger physical, financial, legal and what else they distance. I have already indicated in the letter of 16 January last that I am going to look at the best position for the WODC in order to ensure maximum protection and independence. But I don't want to anticipate that until we know the results of those investigations. I say to Members through you, Mr President, that it is not to slow things down a bit or to keep you on a leash, but because I really think we should talk about these conclusions. You will now also hear that I will take on board some suggestions or thoughts to hear how we are in this when we know exactly what has come out of those investigations. This is in response to the questions put by Mr Van Nispen, Mr Grothuizen and Mrs Buitenweg. I would like to say a few words about funding. Mr Groothuizen had a question about the WODC.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u115	I see Mr Van Nispen wants to interrupt, but I suggest you finish the questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u116	That's a loose end. The WODC is not paid per research but financed from JenV's budget. For certain subjects, additional research is financed by policy programme funds and by some other ministries. That's about funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u117	Any more loose ends?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u118	Yeah, I got a couple more. Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly asked why that protocol was updated. The reason was the visitation report 2014. It says that the covenant which dates back to 1993................................................................ should be updated............................................................................................................................ That covenant mainly regulated "the policy and management position of the WODC within the Ministry." This has therefore been considerably strengthened following the opinion of the Visitation Committee under the care of the new Secretary-General, who took office at the end of 2015. Then there was one more question from Mrs. Chicken. Have we wasted time on important social issues such as organised crime? I think that is an important point. You say that's because of manipulation of investigations. I can't go along with that, because I don't know. We are going to investigate this first, but what I would like to say is that the approach to organised crime has also been a very high priority under the previous cabinet. Under that cabinet, important steps have also been taken in the area of, for example, the task force in Brabant. This has not been my credit, but this cabinet, too, has stressed its importance and, as you know, has allocated extra money to combat this serious crime. So in that respect, apart from what comes out of investigations, this cabinet is on top of this serious crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u119	Now, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u120	The Minister wants to wait and see the investigations before he starts thinking about the position of the WODC, whether or not it should be placed at a distance. But what could come out of an investigation that makes us think: it's actually a really good idea to leave the WODC on the fourteenth floor of the ministry, so that a policy officer can just take the elevator to have a cup of coffee with an independent investigator and do a lot of influence? What can come out of such an investigation that we say: that is a very healthy situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u121	I hope you'll forgive me for quoting something from a previous life. But I have seen that prosecutors and judges often kept offices in the same building and sometimes, or by definition, even sat at the same table in cases. I mean, it is not necessarily said that with a geographical removal of one another one is also placed outside each other's sphere of influence. I do not want to say that the suggestion is not interesting. Let me stress that. But I think that if we do one already and not the other, we are doing something in a certain direction. Maybe it will come out that we need a separate legal entity, or a very heavy supervisory board. At least I think I should let the researchers do their job now. I have just told you: I am really going to look into the best possibilities in terms of quality codes in the coming months and also to ensure that they are respected. I think that after these investigations we should have an open debate with each other on the question of 'what do we think should happen now?' In the meantime, I am actively working to promote the independent position of the WODC people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u122	I'm the first one to acknowledge that even if you put it remotely, that's far from the solution to everything. Of course, we also need decent drivers. We need decent politicians who do not interfere with scientific research and who allow researchers to do their work independently. But I really wonder what the justification for that exception is. Unlike all these other knowledge institutes, the WODC, together with one other institute, is housed within the department. So I just think that we can ask that question here, that we can decide today that we are going to identify the pros and cons to determine the best position, but that we must say that it must at least be placed at a distance from the Ministry. So what is the justification for that position within the department?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u123	In my view, the question you are asking is particularly a matter for committee 1, the Overgaauw Committee. I do not think that I should draw any conclusions on this or give any direction to it now. In court proceedings, you'd say you'd be influencing the course of justice. I think you're gonna get involved in the investigation, and that shouldn't happen. That's not wise. I would also like to point out to Mr Van Nispen that at least I am the official, I do not know whether you should say so or whether you are the servant or something that should certainly be kept away from it. I'm sure this is the best way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u124	The Minister says we're influencing investigations here. We've seen the broadcast of Nieuwsuur. No one's arguing that what happened happened. Then I draw a political conclusion, the Minister says "I want to investigate all kinds of things first" and then I would influence his investigations, when I already think that the WODC should get out of there. So I don't think the Minister's suggestion is so neat after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u125	I'm going to miss...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u126	But that's not what I meant. Absolutely not. I would like to say that to Mr Van Nispen. I thought we were talking about this constructively so far. That's not what I meant. I just said that I think I absolutely shouldn't do that. They're not my tests, by the way. They're investigations that I think should be done. I am not allowed to take the gesture of a step back, but at least I am saying that I am not going to get involved in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u127	I don't think I get it, because I don't think we've said so explicitly to each other before that there's going to be a separate investigation into the advantages and disadvantages of putting the WODC remotely, in a form of foundation, I just heard the Minister say. Maybe I missed something, I say that in all honesty, but I don't think we've said that so explicitly before. I believe I heard the Minister say the following today. We have the WODC here, and we have those three investigations that are being done. In one of the investigations, the Minister referred to the first investigation; I thought it was heard in the second, but in the first it is also fine, given this particular attention. Research questions will then become: how do we ensure the independence of the WODC, what does that mean and what are the advantages and disadvantages of putting it remotely into a foundation or do I know much what? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u128	No, I'm sorry. Well, that's up to me. Then I didn't explain it properly. I'm sorry about that. What I wanted to say is this. You can discuss all kinds of things. You can discuss the geographical position, the legal form and the question of who is in charge. I don't want to do that now. I think I should first be able to answer to the Chamber about the outcome of the investigations, because then you can have a meaningful discussion about the question 'and how far ahead?' When you discussed the word 'others' with Mrs Buitenweg in the first term, you said: that word 'others' does not belong in the sense; it is not about how we should do it differently, but about how we should proceed later. I apologise to Mrs Buitenweg, but I understood very well that you said that, because that is the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u129	Mrs Buitenweg has already mentioned this and she is right. I think Mrs Buitenweg and I are almost more in agreement than I am with the Minister now, I fear. Because what I do want is to look at the question of how such a research institute of the Ministry of Justice and Security can best get its place. If the Minister can indicate that he's going to investigate how best to do that, then I'm satisfied. Otherwise, I fear that we will have to ask for an address in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u130	The question is more general than: how do we place it remotely? This is primarily about the following, as I wrote to you on 16 January. I quote that from something that happens to be laid down for me: 'Of course, as soon as these research results are available, I am prepared to inform your Chamber further whether, and if so how, the relationship with the Ministry should change.' That's what I'm trying to explain here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u131	Mrs Van Toorenburg, one final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u132	That's where the crux is. This is exactly what this is about. So we're gonna do some research first, and then the minister's gonna see how we're gonna deal with the WODC. What I am asking, and I think a lot of Members, is: can we not bring forward that last piece and just see how best to organise it? If we allow this to happen at the same time, we will not only have the views of the Minister on the basis of all kinds of investigations, on which we will then start to reflect and discuss with each other, but we will also have an idea of the various advantages and disadvantages of the different forms. The outcome may be: we leave it where it is and don't move. But it may also be that it has to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u133	No, but... Let me give you an example. The research committees come on date X with their research results. Then I will come to you a short time after date X with the research results and with what I think are the possibilities of what we should do with them. Of course, as I have just said in connection with the codes, in the time between now and the time when the committees of inquiry come up with the results, I have to say that there are a number of scenarios that have been mentioned: financial, legal, distance and I know what else has been put in order. Then you can ask me, as I write here, to tell you what scenarios there are and what I think is best. Then we're talking. I have just said, on the basis of the points made by Mr Van der Staaij, that it should not be the case that I say in six months' time, or whenever these research results are available, that I need six months to see what needs to be done. If that's what you're saying, I'm in complete agreement with you. But I am not going to come up with this before the Committees of Inquiry: this is what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u134	You did say that, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u135	I, too, will continue on this point. The letter says: we will first check on the basis of the investigations if there is any ground to place the WODC more remotely. The question that still lives widely in the Chamber, including in my group, is now: can we not extend the research mission and also have a look at whether changes in the legal positioning and in the actual location can benefit independence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u136	Fine. I have no problem with that, as you say, Madam President, also to Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u137	Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Buitenweg, you're talking to each other, but now you're back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u138	There's no misunderstanding about that. But then we'd have a little chat. Then it might be that we are more in agreement with each other than you agree with each other. In fact, I am happy to say to you that we are also asking Committee 1 to advise on what could or should be done in the field of the positioning of the WODC if it finds that there is reason to do so. That's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u139	Well, Mr. Van der Staaij means something else, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u140	Well, the point is that it retains a certain conditionality: if the conclusion is drawn that there is something wrong that can be remedied with a structural adjustment, then... But the question of the Chamber is a little broader: can you not just ask the committee, as we look at independence, to look at whether changes in the location or in the legal positioning can strengthen the independent functioning? That's a slightly bigger...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u141	So this point is taken into account in the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u142	Let us put it this way, otherwise I will repeat it: I am quite prepared to give this to the committee, as Mr Van der Staaij says in that sense. I hope that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u143	So the positioning of the WODC is taken into account in the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u144	Fine. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u145	Okay. Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u146	It took us a while to get out, but the result is good. There is another matter. The minister says he's also going to look at all kinds of codes of conduct. That's exactly what I'd like to see. Now the Minister says: I'm going to see which code of conduct best suits the WODC, so that it can commit itself to it, and I'm going to see which institute best suits the WODC as a possible institute to deal with complaints? Or does the Minister say, "No, I'm gonna check the width to see if this is necessary?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u147	No, I think it's good to really see what would be the best connection for the WODC. That's what I'm picking up from what your room says. I can taste that from a large number of you. You think it wise if the WODC joined the LOWI or the KNAW.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u148	And to make sure there's no misunderstanding tonight: the moment you find that club or code, the WODC signs in and the WODC joins in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u149	If it's all right with you, I'd like to tell the Chamber first of all what my thoughts are on that. It seems to me that we have to agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u150	I would like to ask another question about the additional complaints that have been made; two about the inspection and one about the WODC. They follow their own path, but what subjects do these complaints cover?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u151	I can't really say anything about that. I know there are these complaints; they've been reported to me by the integrity coordinator. Since in all three cases the complaint procedure runs, in the case of the WODC complaint it remains under the integrity coordinator and in the case of the inspection complaints under the ADR, the Audit Service Rijk. But I told you that the WODC complaint and one of the two inspection complaints do see on the subject of improper influence of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u152	But my question is: what research? You're saying you can't make that public. As soon as you can, would you like to inform the Chamber about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u153	Absolutely. I'll give you my word on that. As soon as I can report that, I will. I am perhaps a little bit cautious occasionally, as Mr Grothuizen has just said, but I really want to avoid having to say afterwards about the research that we are going to have, that it has been wrongly influenced by me again here. For the complaints, we simply need to follow the procedure. But I can assure you that I will tell you as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u154	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u155	Mr President, one more question has not been answered that I asked in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u156	I'll let you repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u157	How do you make sure you don't just put the candy jar away, but that you also force yourself not to keep digging in that candy jar all the time? I'm just gonna put it metaphorically. What are you going to do yourself towards your own civil service to prevent influence? My concrete suggestion is: make sure that you are constantly transparent when you ask for an adjustment in research methods, results, conclusions, etc. We have seen this, for example, in the OVV report in a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u158	I think that your suggestion on this subject should be considered in the first place, i.e. the inclusion in an annex of dissensing questions and answers. In the second period, I will make a final comment, if that is all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u159	The Minister said a number of things about scientific integrity. One of my questions was very concrete: how exactly does peer review take shape within the research of the WODC? I hope the Minister will see an opportunity to reflect on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u160	Can I do that in the second term? 'Cause I'm just looking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u161	Yeah, I'm fine. Then I thank you. We're going to the second term on the side of the Chamber. Members need a short suspension, I see. Five minutes? That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u162	Let's move on to the second term of office. I call Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u163	Mr. Chairman. We must, of course, be able to rely on the independence of scientific research, precisely because it is based on policies. I think the Minister has rightly said things about this. Trust must be restored in the Ministry so that people dare to report. That's incredibly important. Trust in the WODC must also be restored. For me, the question remains how do we do that with this WODC director. Because I have no reason to doubt what has been revealed from Nieuwsuur and what the whistleblower has said. If all this will be demonstrated by the investigation, then I ask the Minister how confidence with this director should be restored. According to the Minister, calling the whistleblower happened with good intentions. But then I wonder if there are other internal investigations into employees who might have leaked to Nieuwsuur. That's what I like to hear from the Minister. If he can't answer that question tonight, I'd like him to find out. I do not want a motion on the position of the WODC, because in the end I can agree with the fact that it will now be examined further, even though I think it should be placed at a distance. I'll settle for that. I have not yet received an answer to the question of what we will do in future with officials trying to manipulate. Should there be a reporting obligation for researchers? Shouldn't independence, for example, be laid down by law? That's Van Vollenhoven's suggestion. That leaves me with two motions for resolutions to be tabled very briefly. These relate to broadening, including to other ministries. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that there may be doubts about the independence, integrity and quality of other scientific research carried out on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and Security, but not through or through the Scientific Research and Documentation Centre;]] [[Whereas it should never appear that there is or has been a political influence on the content of scientific research;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate whether other investigations commissioned by the Ministry of Justice and Security have been influenced or manipulated and to inform the Chamber of how they are carried out,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is necessary to avoid, as far as possible, the possibility of exerting political influence on the content of independent scientific research;]] [[calls on the Government to forward to the Chamber external investigations directly and thus without the Ministry's intervention in substance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-136]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-137]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u164	The latter motion therefore concerned other ministries and not necessarily the Ministry of Justice and Security. So the first motion I filed was about non-WODC investigations that could also be affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u165	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two questions that have not been answered. I hope, therefore, that this does not go away from my speaking time. I asked what the Minister will do to ensure that Mrs Van Ooyen can enjoy a well-deserved pension. I had also asked for the Minister's position on the legal definition of the independence of research on behalf of the government. What's his opinion on that? Then I have two key words in the second term: political direction. So it is not just about 'direction', it is about 'political direction'. In other words, if you have a different political colour from the minister in question, that could pose a problem. At least that's what I think. I remember how hard it was to get a commitment to an investigation. If you got that, that would be a profit and you'd wait nicely. Often the research was carried out by or in collaboration with the WODC. I didn't have any other thoughts about that, but I do now. And that's very bad. I'm not in favour of taking the victim role, but you can't get over facts. My party is not the favorite party of many scientists. That's not a problem. Everyone is free to vote for the party of his preference. But that becomes different when research results are influenced. That is why, on behalf of my group, I do take a firm position, as I said in the first term and in the interruptions. I am not doing this for myself, not for my group, but as a representative of the people. The public must be able to trust that representatives of the people are holding debates on investigations that are correct and the outcome of which is not dependent on the minister's position or political colour. I've heard the Minister say that he is committed to reaffirming the trust of the WODC. I understand the Minister's position, that he is now taking a wait-and-see attitude, but my role is another, that of the representative of the people. But with the Minister, and I conclude with that, I hope that we will reach a level playing field between the Minister and the Chamber as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u167	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u168	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to the Minister for answering the questions asked. First of all, it is good to note that the Minister has indicated that he is prepared to discuss in the broad sense in the Council of Ministers how we are dealing with the relationship between the European Union and the rest of the world, so I call it research and policy, where research is to be widely understood, through inspections, research institutes such as the WODC and other organisations. Mr. Chairman. I understand that this is a difficult issue. I also understand that we should not fall into some sort of unreasonable doubt, in which we denounce everything without any reason. On the other hand, I think that the simple fact that the Minister is prepared to raise this issue in the Council of Ministers already indicates that we attach importance to this and that this interest is a kind of preventive effect. This is particularly important in view of the culture we have talked about so much. Mr. Chairman. In replying to the Minister, I missed the answer to two questions that I asked in the first term. What about the physical position of the three independent committees? Where exactly are they gonna work? I may have overlooked it, but I do not think the Minister has answered it. I have also asked a question about the handling of complaints in the past. How can we draw on the memory of integrity and trusted persons? Why isn't this just documented? Can the Minister say anything about that? Mr. Chairman. Finally, one more point and then I come to my motion. We had a debate that was sometimes a bit difficult, that was sometimes a bit messy. Is it not wise for the Minister, in a letter, to repeat all his commitments to the Chamber, so that we know exactly where we stand? Then I'll get to the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several scientific research institutes in the Netherlands are affiliated to the National Institute for Scientific Integrity (LOWI) or another independent organisation that can provide advice on possible violations of scientific integrity;]] [[Considering that the recent reporting on possible influence of investigations carried out by the WODC gives rise to better promotion of scientific integrity within the WODC;]] [[Whereas ensuring scientific integrity within the WODC is essential given the social position and function of this research institute;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the WODC joins the LOWI or similar organisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Groothuizen, Van Toorenburg, Van der Graaf, Kuik, Arno Rutte, Van der Staaij and Buitenweg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-138]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks to the Minister, too. One question from my first term has not been answered, namely: what was going on in 2010? Researcher Faber reported that his research firm was researching cybercrime and child pornography for the WODC. Apparently, those results weren't allowed to be made public. 50PLUS understands the Minister's reluctance. There is indeed something to say that the Minister wants to wait for the investigations first on parts, but hopefully not on everything? The hotline is serious, so the Minister assures his employees through us. It is good to emphasise that once again. 50PLUS awaits time planning with interest, but much can already be improved. We appreciate that researchers are being referred to protocols and codes of conduct, but that is not enough in the eyes of 50PLUS. That is why, apart from the topicality surrounding the WODC, we are submitting the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas scientific policy research is the essential basis for taking informed policy choices;]] [[Whereas examples of political influence of scientific policy research are repeatedly emerging;]] [[Whereas the independence of scientific policy research cannot be sufficiently enforced by safeguards such as protocols and codes of conduct;]] [[calls on the Government to propose a legal anchoring of the independent position of scientific policy research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-139]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u170	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u171	Thank you, Mr. Krol. Then I go to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Well, it was a whole process. Initially, also in the letter in December, the investigations were very limited. In the various letters they were increasingly widened. In this debate, all the bunches really went wild. The committees are given the report of this debate and are allowed to do whatever they want with it. Among other things, my comment on the starting points is taken into account, that is how I make it. At least they can take them. Mr Groothuizen asked if the Minister could put on a note what he had promised, but the problem is that I would not be able to table any more motions. So I'm still trying to get some clarity. I believe that what I wanted to request in the motion I had prepared is that we examine the advantages and disadvantages of the scientific integrity of the different legal statuses of the existing public knowledge organisations, and that the Chamber is informed about this. That is my question to the Minister. I hope that this is the case, otherwise I will have to start raving about it very quickly. My question is also who would investigate this. Is this the minister or commission two? Two brief comments, the first on culture. The Minister said: we were actually quite on the right track, because I have noticed that there is a good discussion within the Ministry. However, one of the problems identified by the Court of Auditors was, above all, the closure to the outside world. So that too is a point of attention, not only what is happening internally, but also to the outside world. And my final point. Mr Van der Staaij said: perhaps all research offices can learn from each other, for example from what the advantages and disadvantages of the CPB are. Is it also for the Minister to discuss with his colleagues at ministerial level what are the advantages and disadvantages? I don't think this is so exceptional for the WODC alone. It's unusual because it's a departmental institution, but I think the problem is wider. I think it is also good to take this seriously in the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u173	Mrs Buitenweg, you have just said that you are holding a motion until the Minister has replied, but then you will no longer be able to table a motion. You may later withdraw or hold the motion, but this is the time to file. You only had five seconds left, but you can read the motion quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u174	Yeah, can I just name him for a second? [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the positioning of the WODC as an integral part of the Department of Justice and Security evokes the undesirable appearance of influencing independent and objective scientific research;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the advantages and disadvantages of the legal status of the existing public knowledge organisations in terms of their scientific integrity and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-140]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for replying. It is good that Mrs Buitenweg explained so graphically that we have been given the broadening we all needed. The Minister spoke very briefly about the complaints he has still made with regard to the Justice and Security Inspectorate. It is not quite clear to me how they are being dealt with. Does that all happen internally? How do we make sure those complaints get their place? Can the Minister say something about that, because I did not understand that correctly. Finally, Mr President. I have shown quite theatrically all the pieces here, all the protocols of action and you name it. The Minister did not go into that very much, but I think it is very important. I would therefore like to ask him, at least, whether he is visiting the police, the prosecutors or elsewhere during work visits, sometimes asking what is to be done in the event of a complaint. I want to know how all these fantastic policy documents, all these total models, end up landing with the people in the implementation. So I would really like the Minister to take that up. I only wanted to suggest to him how he can test that this is actually happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u176	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u177	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and for the constructive debate. I tasted that the Minister wants to show great care on the one hand to give that independent research a good chance and not to influence it in advance, and on the other hand has a strong motivation to contribute to that open culture and to truly guaranteeing the independent functioning of the WODC. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitments, particularly with regard to the actual location and legal positioning. It's a good thing we could talk about that. I have written it down for myself: we have concluded that it is also part of the commission's mission to see whether adaptation of the actual location or legal positioning can strengthen the independent functioning of the WODC. More generally, the issue was also raised by other speakers in order to raise the issue of the relationship between research and policy in the Council of Ministers, because it does not only play at the WODC. I repeat the suggestion that the staff of these various public knowledge organisations should engage in discussions because this could further promote the common self-reflection. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u178	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u179	Mr. Chairman. Like I said, trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. It will be a while before confidence in this kind of scientific research is restored. So it will not be the last time we have this debate with the Minister, also because a number of other complaints have already been made and I do not rule out that these will not be the last complaints. Mr. Chairman. I asked the Minister to look above all at the actions of the Ministry and its officials. I have made a specific suggestion, which the Minister will return to in his second term, but then I will not be able to table a motion, so that is why I am doing so now. The motion is about transparency. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that serious doubts have arisen as to the influence of the Ministry on WODC investigations;]] [[noting that the independence of scientific research should be beyond any doubt;]] [[noting that reports from, for example, the Security Research Council make correspondence about any changes transparent;]] [[calls on the Government to make clear in scientific reports the requests for adjustments made and which have been taken over by the researchers;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-141]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u180	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u181	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u182	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Through you, I would like to thank the Minister for answering the first-term questions. I am very pleased that the Minister has made it so clear that he is committed to reaffirming trust in the WODC and that the independence and integrity of the research and documentation centre should be beyond any doubt. We hope that the battle that the Minister intends to make will succeed. I am also pleased with the debate that has arisen. This is now clear and hopefully even more so after the second deadline. The research will be expanded with the question of how the WODC can best be positioned to ensure independence. The Minister referred to the fact that he wanted to study the scientific codes of conduct. I would like to make that a little more specific. In the first term, I referred to the Code of Conduct for Integrity Empire, which lays down rules for officials involved in independent investigations. It refers to the code of conduct for the scientific practice of the VSNU, but the protocol of the WODC does not refer to it. That's why I've prepared a motion. I hope the Minister will take this over. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Scientific Research and Documentation Centre (WODC) as a research and knowledge institute independently conducts or has conducted policy-oriented scientific research;]] [[Whereas the Code of Conduct on Science of the Association of Universities (VSNU) sets out six principles of proper scientific practice;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the Code of Conduct on Science can be better anchored within the practice of the WODC,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Graaf and Groothuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-142]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u183	Mr President, thank you. I too would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I am pleased that the promise that the Minister will report to the Chamber on cultural change at the Ministry after about nine months. So I will not table a motion on that point. I would like to make a brief comment on the good intentions there were when calling the whistleblower. That actually reminds me of an old Dutch proverb: the road to hell is paved with good intentions. I still have two motions to make. The first goes like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that investigations commissioned by the ministries should not involve undue influence;]] [[calls on the government to make it compulsory for all senior officials and all researchers employed by ministries in the annual work interview to discuss possible improper influence on research assignments of ministries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-143]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u184	Then the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that investigations commissioned by the ministries should not involve undue influence;]] [[calls on the Government to include in each investigation report drawn up on behalf of the ministries a 'explanation of conscience' stating that there has been no undue influence and to have all the officials and researchers concerned sign the text 'AWARELY' or 'MEET ONES',]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-144]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u185	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u186	Madam President. I'll start with some outstanding questions. Some of the outstanding questions have then been translated into motions. I will then deal with the motion and not so much with the question. The MP Van Nispen has asked a number of questions. What do we do in the future with civil servants manipulating? It goes without saying that, when there is a dysfunctional official, measures will be taken which are also carefully and proportionate under civil law. What are we gonna do with the idea of mr. From Vollenhoven? I'll give that to the committee, too. I was just talking about commission one a few times, but that'll be commission two. I will come to that in a moment, in response to Mrs Buitenweg. You asked: how should trust now be restored with the WODC director? I would like to say again, also in view of the time, that 500 investigations have been carried out in five years. We now have two investigations on which doubts have arisen. There are also principles of hearing and hearing in the whole. The committees will also need to hear the views of all those involved in the complaints. As has already been said, I am not meddling in that at all. For the rest, I do not make any statements about individual officials. I have promised myself that I will actively see to it that officials at the WODC are simply able to conduct investigations, without any undue influence. Furthermore, we await the results of the Committees of Inquiry. You also asked if a leak would be investigated. I can answer that, in general, when a criminal offence is suspected, in this case leaks, the National Criminal Court is called in for investigation. I can assure you that in this case, there is no State CID investigation. Mrs Helder asked: what is the Minister going to do about the retirement of the lady who was on television yesterday? I would like to stress here that I believe that she should enjoy her retirement in peace and quiet, and that I will also work to ensure that this happens now. You too, Mrs Helder, have asked a question about the legal anchoring of independence, but I have just answered it. The Member of Parliament, Mr Groothuizen, has asked for a letter to list all the commitments. That's a letter I'd like to give you. I acknowledge that at some point in the first term I may have lost sight of the situation. You can charge me with that, but I'll make up for that with the letter with a list of commitments. Mrs Van Toorenburg, you did indeed show such a whole package of pieces. I would like to tell you that I will be looking with my officials in the near future to see how we can ensure that complaints procedures are indeed manageable for everyone by means of'sustainable', I also mean 'understandable' and b can actually be used in practice. I will come back to your Chamber and explain the ideas. Well, that's gonna be a while. That commitment is also reflected in the letter requested by Mr Groothuizen. How is the peer review embedded in the WODC? That is a question from Mrs Van der Graaf. In almost every study, an advisory committee is set up in which external experts always sit, usually under the chairmanship of a professor or associate professor. In addition, researchers from the WODC write scientific articles that have been peer-reviewed in the respective magazines and books. All investigations become public and can therefore be reviewed by fellow scientists at will. The data collected in studies shall be made available for secondary analysis. So there is an extensive system of peer review. Then, with apologies to the Member Van Nispen, I skipped his question as to whether there should be no obligation to report to researchers. It is now too early to make such decisions. Here I await the result of this committee 2 under the direction of Professor Hertogh. If I don't fail anyone, I'll get the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u187	Short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u188	Yes, chairman, and probably abounding, but just for confirmation. If these investigations are completed, will the Minister then respond to the three points I mentioned, namely the obligation to report to the researchers, the possible measures to the official who has tried to influence and the possible legal anchoring of independence? Does that get a position in that policy response?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u189	Yes. I think we will simply incorporate that in that policy response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u190	The motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u191	Then there's the motions. The first motion by Mr Van Nispen, in part No. 136 should cover the inspection. But for that we have procedures, such as the ADR study. I have also said that the complaints have been received fairly recently and that the procedures are ongoing. We should not go further into that. I have no indication that this procedure is not working properly. I have promised the Member of Parliament, Mr Kuik, that not only as soon as I can, I will commit to what these complaints are about, but also to brief the Chamber on the outcome afterwards. This motion is therefore not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u192	Mr. Van Nispen, you will have the opportunity to say a few words about the motion and nothing more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u193	I understand, Mr. Chairman, but this is a misunderstanding. This did not concern what the Minister said about the inspection. I think that's where we'll have to wait for the investigation. However, there are more investigations commissioned by the Ministry but not by the WODC. That is what this motion is about. So the Ministry asks an external investigation agency to do research: even then there could be influence. That is what this motion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u194	But then I must dissuade the motion, because I told you at the beginning and then repeated a few times that there have been doubts about two investigations by the WODC. That is why I have carried out a rather heavy investigation, because I really think that this doubt needs to materialise or be removed. That's just very important. There's no indication for me right now that any other investigation, all the way outside the WODC outsourced, I wouldn't know what investigation this should be about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u195	Second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u196	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u197	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u198	Okay. So dissuade it. The motion in part No. 137 asks the Government to forward to the Chamber external investigations directly and thus without the Ministry's intervention in substance. I am not in a position to judge such a motion differently before the government. I'm not in charge of that. Then the Great Houses motion c.s. in piece No. 138. Mr Groothuizen asked the government to associate the WODC with the LOWI or a similar organisation. There's also a motion on part No. 142, by Mr Van der Graaf. This concerns a request to investigate how the Code of Conduct for Science can be better anchored within the practice of the WODC. I would ask for these two motions to be held because I cannot see it, but I do have the impression that it may be that these two motions are not very close to each other. And then you would apply the rules of two different scientific review institutes. I hope that in the meantime that motion will be held so that we can get out of it. I would also like to make it quite clear here that what is stated in the one motion, that we are going to go there, that we are going to join in the coming period. We're not gonna wait and see these research committees anymore, but we're gonna join a quality institute. Can I put it this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u199	Yes. But if the MPs do not wish to hold the motions, what is your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u200	So I'm really sorry about that. Then I must dissuade them now, because I don't think they're entirely mutually exclusive. That would be a shame, because I just said that in the foreseeable future I could have persuaded the Chamber to go to such a quality thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u201	If I understand the Minister correctly, he is asking for both of them to be held, because he can then identify whether something is biting and say that if he is not, he is in favour of it. I see the minister making a broad arm gesture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u202	It may be that LOWI says "'happy, also the VSNU rules"' or vice versa they both have to do so and that does not become a huge burden, because you should not have a huge bureaucracy. I think we need to figure that out with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u203	Yes. Mr. Grand Houses?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u204	I'll arrest her. I'll take a look around and see that anyone underneath can live with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u205	At the request of Mr Grothuizen, I propose his motion (28844, No. 138). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u206	Mrs Van der Graaf, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u207	With that same argument, I would like to make the motion in part No. 142 on the rules of conduct of the VSNU. It would be nice if we could get some information about that once the tests have been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u208	At the request of Mrs Van der Graaf, I propose her motion (28844, No. 142). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u209	I'll take that in the Grotehuizen letter. Then the motion to part No. 139 of the Member of Parliament, Mr Krol, in which the government is invited to come forward with a proposal to legally anchor the independent position of scientific policy research. This is the same as for the Van Vollenhoven proposal: to continue pending the results and opinions of Commission 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u210	Mr. Krol?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u211	Hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u212	At the request of Mr Krol, I propose his motion (28844, No. 139). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u213	Then the motion to part No. 140 of the Buitenweg member. I think I've already agreed to what's in the motion. But I do admit to the Member of the Buitenweg that I caused confusion, not for the first time, by referring to committee 1, whereas that committee had to be 2. However, as it says, I will have committee 2 examine the advantages and disadvantages of the scientific integrity of the legal status of the existing legal knowledge organisations and I will inform the Chamber accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u214	So? What's your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u215	I don't think the motion is necessary anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u216	I'll take a look. Take over?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u217	I've already promised, but whatever you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u218	Anybody mind taking over? We have a new assessment framework. If the motion is really unnecessary...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u219	She's redundant. I literally read her as my promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u220	Mrs. Helder is right about what she says outside the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u221	The motion must not be taken over, you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u222	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u223	I felt compelled to submit her.............................................................................................................................................................................................. So this is what we needed to clear the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u224	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u225	Otherwise, I'm fine with it and I don't care. I don't know. I'm okay with moving in, too, or the Minister can take her over. I don't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u226	That's true. It's true what you're saying, Mrs. Helder. I think that 'unneeded' is actually 'unrecommended'. Then Mrs Buitenweg withdraws the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u227	That's for courtesy's sake. The motion in part No. 141 calls on the Government to make clear in scientific reports the requests for adjustments made and which have been taken over by the researchers. That's Mrs. Chicken's motion. That was her point, too. I would advise against this, because it is in principle the responsibility of the researchers themselves, and this is also to be discussed with the Committee of Inquiry 2. I'm gonna go a little further. If we were to finally agree on that LOWI code, we would have to apply it and I do not know how it is embedded in it at all. So I do sympathize with the point, but I must discourage the motion. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 142.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u228	No, we've already had it. We're going to the motion in part no. 143.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u229	Oh, excuse me. The motion in part No. 143 belongs to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u230	He's not in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u231	In this motion, the government is invited to discuss with all senior officials and with all researchers employed by the ministries in the annual operational discussion the possibility of undue influence on the research orders of the ministries. Integrity is standard part of the conversation. So I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber on this motion. In the last motion, in part No. 144, the Government is requested to include in each investigation report prepared on behalf of the ministries a "conscience-based statement" stating that there has been no undue influence. I'd like to advise against that. This primarily underestimates the researchers. But it would also prelude far too much on the results of Commission 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u232	Mrs Van Toorenburg, I see that you want to ask a question, but this is a motion from Mr Azarkan. He's not in the room right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u233	Mr President, I do not understand the opinion. For in my view it is quite clear that any discussion on the functioning of research should talk about possible improper influence on research assignments. Is that what we're going to do so specifically in every interview? The Minister says: Judge Chamber. I don't think that's what he meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u234	So this is about the motion in part No. 143.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u235	Look, integrity is a standard part of working conversations. May I respond to Mrs Van Toorenburg for a moment, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u236	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u237	I believe that in the integrity of researchers and policy officials, the following question is an essential part: have you been unduly affected or have you been unduly affected? I see Mrs Van Toorenburg shaking no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u238	Finally, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u239	I hear the Minister say that integrity is the subject of discussion in every working discussion. That would make a motion on that superfluous. However, this motion states that any discussion of the functioning must address the issue of improper influence in the investigation orders of the Ministry. That sounds a little special to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u240	Yes. Well, good. I have nothing to add to what I just said. I'm so sorry. Now the bunches aren't any further off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u241	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u242	We will vote on the motions tabled next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u243	I'm allowed to keep my gift, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-33.u244	I think it's a very nice tile. You can take that with you. It's worth less than €50, so it doesn't have to be in the register. Do you? I'm being corrected. Thank you. I would like to thank everyone, including those who have followed this debate and close the sitting.
