ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u1	The next item is the joint debate on the legislative proposals: merger of the municipalities of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer (34805); merger of the municipalities of Binnenmaas, Cromstrijen, Korendijk, Oud-Beijerland and Strijen (34806); merging the municipalities of Leerdam, Vianen and Zederik and changing the border between the provinces of Utrecht and Zuid-Holland (34824); merger of the municipalities of Aalburg, Werkendam and Woudrichem (34825); assembly of the municipalities of Nuth, Subbanks and Schinnen (34826); merger of the municipalities of Haarlemmerliede and Spaarnwoude and Haarlemmermeer (34827); merger of the municipalities of Bedum, De Marne, Eemsmond and Winsum (34828); merger of the municipalities of Grootegast, Leek, Marum and Zuidhorn and part of the territory of the municipality of Winsum (34829); merger of the municipalities of Giessenlanden and Molenwaard (34830); merger of the municipalities of Dongeradeel, Ferwerderadiel and Kollumerland and Nieuwkruisland (34831); merger of the municipalities of Noordwijk and Noordwijkerhout (34832); Merging of the municipalities of Geldermalsen, Lingewaal and Neerijnen (34833). Once again, I welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I would like to add that you should give the Minister an opportunity to make an introduction to her story. I would ask you not to interrupt during that period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, for this procedural proposal. It's a lot of legislative proposals. A lot of questions have also been asked. The classification of my answer is first, in a general sense, an explanation of the main issues that have emerged in the first period, for which much thanks to all Members. Then I walk by the questions according to the following structure. First I go into the questions that have been asked in general about reclassifications and then I walk through a number of reclassifications about which many questions have been asked. I start with Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer and then the Hoeksche Waard, then five lord countries and finally Haarlemmermeer and Molenlanden. So I'm doing this a little in the order of the number of questions that have been asked. But, yes, first I say something in a general sense. I think an administrative organization should always go along with the time. New times make new and different demands. I think the time when the municipality merged with the local community is actually behind us. The nature and extent of the public task is changing, also in response to developments in society and in response to what citizens need. So the organization of the municipalities must constantly move along with it. The municipal reclassification has been a process which is very often initiated and supported by municipalities themselves. This means that the municipalities themselves are often the first to recognise the changing requirements and take steps to adapt to them. For example, the main administrative layer of our state establishment adapts to the changed circumstances. One of these developments is that the region is increasingly the scale at which public services are regulated. Mr Lintmeijer mentioned this in his contribution. A reclassification is often seen as a solution direction. There are also other, for example inter-municipal cooperation. Inter-municipal cooperation can lead to less influence of one's own organisation, including the city council. On the other hand, this cooperation can also produce a lot, because together you can achieve more. I recently sent a letter to the House of Representatives on 29 June to explain my ambition for the Common Regulations Act. In that letter I announce, among other things, measures to increase the influence of the city council and to provide more space to respond to the regional context and changed circumstances. So the link between common schemes and the participating municipalities needs to be strengthened, as far as I am concerned. Society must be supported, fed and controlled by the municipal councils. In that case, the principle of extended local government underlying the Common Regulations Act will be materialised. These developments within the public administration are entirely in line with Thorbecke's organic state doctrine, cited yesterday by several members, at least Mr Engels and Mr Van Hattem and Mrs Bikker. In Thorbecke's organic state doctrine, changes in division of labour and scale are important mechanisms to keep the open structure of the three layers of government up to date. For example, municipalities remain able to prove their right to exist and to provide citizens with what they can expect from municipalities, given the legal or non-legislative tasks. The present legislative proposals, which have just been recapitulated by the President, involve 37 municipalities. If your Chamber today agrees to the present legislative proposals, the Netherlands will have 355 municipalities from 1 January 2019, so it is an important debate in terms of size, but above all in terms of content. By far the majority of the municipal reclassifications that are before us today have come about on the initiative of the municipal councils themselves. I appreciate that. I appreciate the initiative taken by municipalities. This fits in with the policy of this cabinet that municipalities are primarily responsible for strengthening their administrative power. The municipalities often need to strengthen their administrative capacity, as they have to carry out increasingly complex tasks well. This is about a range of subjects, from issuing passports to caring in the neighbourhood and paying attention to the wishes of their residents. At the moment, I am preparing a review of the municipal policy framework, on which questions have also been asked. To this end, the Ministry of BZK has entered into consultations with VNG and IPO, as well as with municipalities and provinces that have recently been subject to a reclassification. It is my ambition to have an adapted policy framework in place in the second half of this year. The present reclassification proposals were assessed in accordance with the current policy framework, from 2013, and with the procedural requirements of the General Rules Act. In all cases, this has led to the conclusion that a careful and transparent process has been carried out in accordance with the law and the policy framework. This applies without exception, including the merger of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer. There were several members who specifically asked. I shall come back to that in a moment, because of course many more questions have been asked. But let me say in advance that I understand very well that reclassifications can evoke emotions among residents of the municipality concerned. People are involved in their congregation, near their neighborhood, and are concerned about the consequences that the reclassification may have. I think that the concern is often about the idea of scaling up and that this will lead to a greater distance between residents and their municipal councils. Several Members drew attention to this yesterday. For example, Mrs Bikker asked whether the municipality is not the nearest place for participation in democracy, and I fully agree with that. I also believe that everyone from the Minister for Foreign Affairs can ask for constant attention to be paid to strengthening local democracy and to local governance in general. I also agree with Mr Schalk when he says that there is a firm responsibility to ensure that democracy functions properly at municipal level. Last week I sent a plan of action to Parliament, with proposals to strengthen that local democracy. It includes measures, partly already in motion, partly announced, to create more room for variety and customisation, so that municipalities can strengthen their democracy and local government in the way that suits them. But I think it is really important to emphasise, because that is what we see in these reclassifications too, that a reclassification does not have to have a negative impact on the quality of local democracy. On the contrary. In the end, the size of the municipality is less important than the quality and commitment of the municipal administration to enrich that local democracy. A reclassification offers opportunities through organisational changes to renew, enliven and adapt local democracy. This includes innovative practices. That happens a lot in the Netherlands. It's about more neighborhood-oriented work. It concerns the implementation of an active core policy, if that is the case. It's about how to use area committees, village councils or district councils. Those are all tools to give this local democracy a wide range of jobs. The reclassification proposals that are before us show that all municipalities want to make an extra effort to involve residents, to improve village and core policy and to prevent this proximity from decreasing, and hence the involvement of residents. I will come back to that later, because Mrs Bikker...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u4	Mr. Van Hattem, I've asked the Minister to finish her introductory story. Then you may interrupt. I made that appointment, and that's how I want to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u5	I will come back to this in a moment, because specific questions have been asked, among others by Mrs Bikker and Mr Schalk. In the present proposals, municipalities and provinces have convincingly argued why a reclassification in their concrete situation offers the best solution. There has also been investment in involving residents and other stakeholders in a reclassification process. The conversation's over. It looked at ways of promoting social support for reclassifications. In consultation with the inhabitants, core values have been formulated which are the starting point for the new municipality. These forms the basis for the working methods of the new municipality with regard to local democracy. Out of the 12 proposals, three proposals have been put forward at the initiative of the Province. Maybe that's why they get the most attention. I shall therefore go into these three proposals separately in any case. Of course, it is always better if reclassifications are made entirely from the bottom, I repeat Mr Ten Hoeve, because he said so. That is also the ideal situation for me. But it's not always possible. There are situations where it is necessary for the province to take the initiative, for example because there has been an impasse. In my opinion, a good result has been achieved in the three reclassifications before us at the initiative of the province. This also applies to the fact that I do not detract from feelings of discontent that are and may be present among residents. At the same time, I do not want to fail the provinces, which have taken their administrative responsibility to find a good solution in the interests of all the inhabitants concerned. Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity, I would now like to deal with three reclassifications, but as far as I am concerned, including interruptions. Then I will go into the questions a little more specifically. I'd like to start with the proposed reclassification of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer. It has a turbulent course. Earlier, the members of the House of Representatives, and I think the members of the House of Representatives, have already had a lot of e-mails about this. There have been submitted documents. The media have reported about it. Of course, the people who disagree with this reclassification have moved. I see something positive in that too, because the municipality of Haren can rejoice in the great involvement of a group of very participatory residents. I sincerely hope that this active involvement will continue in the new municipality, for the community of Haren, because engagement is very important. I'm going to go over the situation briefly. The municipality of Ten Boer has more than 7,000 inhabitants. Since 2006, she has had a close relationship with Groningen. The administrative apparatus of the municipality of Groningen carries out most of the tasks for both Groningen and Ten Boer. At some point this collaboration has become known as the model Ten Boer. With the growing complexity of all the social issues facing the municipalities, Groningen and Ten Boer noted that a reclassification could strengthen the two municipalities, also on the basis of the conclusions of the Visitation Committee. The two municipalities have always been open to the connection of Haren. Haren has more than 19,000 inhabitants and borders the city of Midden-Groningen with 60,000 people, the municipality of Groningen with 200,000 inhabitants and of course the province of Drenthe. The municipality of Haren carries out most of its tasks through partnerships. It has been found that within these partnerships the municipality of Haren cannot put sufficient weight on the scale to be really influential. Many members have asked whether the municipality of Haren can remain independent with the measures already taken. Are these measures sufficient? A variation on this question has been asked by many members. Of course, it is not always easy to answer the question of how future-proof a municipality actually is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u6	I hear the Minister say that the municipality of Haren cannot put sufficient weight on the scale, but who should it weigh for? With regard to other municipalities, or for their own citizens? For its own citizens, it seems to be able to put sufficient weight on the scale, because the citizens who write to us are extremely satisfied with their existing municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u7	I understand that and that is of course good to hear, but it is important that many issues are no longer dealt with by municipalities in isolation and no longer before. As I said earlier, Mr Lintmeijer also drew attention to the importance of the regions in his term of office. Many collaborations require a larger scale, in which not one redeployed municipality but several municipalities together move in. This varies from the security regions to, for example, economic cooperation partnerships. There is therefore a multitude of either voluntary partnerships or common arrangements on which agreements have been made. It is in the interest of the inhabitants of every municipality in the Netherlands that a municipality that participates in it can actually participate, so that it is not only there but actually in the interests of the inhabitants that it influences such a partnership. There have been many reclassifications in Groningen, all with the motive of providing good services to citizens and being able to participate in the partnerships. There are doubts about the weight of the municipality of Haren and what it can mean for its inhabitants in the larger contexts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u8	I find that a remarkable reasoning, because also a larger municipality has a very limited influence in often large partnerships. Look at the security regions and the environmental services. I know it myself from the municipality of Den Bosch and from the province: large cities also have relatively little influence within such a partnership. The number of heads is always counted. Whether it is a large or small municipality, the influence is and remains limited. So now to put that as the main argument in order to be able to put weight on the scale as a municipality... If the existing situation is satisfactory to the people and is good, why should more weight be needed on that scale?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u9	It is one of the arguments; of course more arguments have been put forward. I would like to point out that it is important for the inhabitants that a municipality should be able to participate well in the partnerships. If Mr Van Hattem says that in these common arrangements it could sometimes be better with democratic control and the involvement of the city council, I agree with him. Hence, as I just mentioned, the letter I sent about it. I also want this to improve and that municipal councils remain in control, even if a municipality participates in a common scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u10	May I ask the Minister by whom it has been found that the municipality of Haren is not able to place sufficient weight in various partnerships? Where does it say that? Who drew that conclusion? Has the municipality of Haren itself drawn that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u11	You didn't hear me say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u12	No, that's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u13	I was in the process of listing the trade-offs made, including by the other municipalities concerned, the province and, ultimately, the department of BZK, in order to assess the situation. The question is whether the municipality of Haren has a sustainable, independent future. That is a bit of a summary of the question you have asked about this. I started by saying that, of course, that answer is not very easy to give. Then you have to make an analysis of a number of issues, including the partnerships, the performance of the task of the municipality and the scale that is needed or not. That assessment was made by the relevant municipalities, the province and the ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u14	The relevant municipalities. So the municipality of Haren has found that she could not put sufficient weight in these partnerships?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u15	No. Again, I give this list for a reason. So it's about other municipalities, about the province and about the ministry. I'm not saying that everything I sum up here has always been worn by the city of Haren. I also began, of course, by saying that there is a lot of discussion going on, including in Haren, about the weighting laid down in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u16	Mr. Köhler, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u17	Could the Minister not now send us the analyses after the end of the debate? I've been through the whole file, but I haven't found any of these analyses of the position and contribution of the municipality of Haren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u18	If it is right, you have at least been able to take note of the outcome of the visitation committee. Maybe I can add that to the list. Of course, that's important because it's an external test. When it comes to the debate on future stability, Mrs Huijbregts actually said it nicely, namely that the basis is in any case extremely fragile. Actually, I think that's a nice summary. That is why I believe that the province has made the right decision by starting discussions on this reclassification at the time that Haren himself was not prepared to do so. Then let me take the impression straight away on this point. Mr Engels asked there yesterday that there would have been a secret agreement behind that. He said that there was the impression that this would have been set in motion with the knowledge or involvement of The Hague. There's no ground for that. There's no secret agreement. I will go into more detail about the procedure later. In short, the province has rightly ruled, advised on this reclassification. I also admit that there are steps taken by the Municipality of Haren to strengthen the administrative power and improve the financial position. It is uncertain whether this is sufficient and whether this will bring sufficient administrative power and future stability for the municipality for the future. The financial situation is a balancing factor, but it is certainly not the decisive criterion. That was also something Mr Engels stressed yesterday. It is therefore a combination of a fragile administrative power and a fragile financial position, with risks for the future for the residents of Haren, while there were real alternatives to strengthen the situation in Haren by engaging in that cooperation. So I think the choice for a sustainable future was made by this reclassification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u19	I heard the Minister say that no secret agreement was made, but I received another letter from the citizens' committee in Haren this afternoon, which briefly set out what happened in that process over the last few years in order to achieve that reclassification. One of the aspects that we are now looking at is a policy agenda that we actually know from several fronts and which therefore does not surprise me very much. This is the European project for smart cities. They are actually saying: Groningen has the ambition to participate in the European project of smart cities, but they need a little more scale to do so and that is why some agreements have been made between the province, the CdK and the Empire in order to deactivate that strategy of smart cities. Just because this is a theme that comes back in several places, I would like to ask the Minister: do you recognize that image? Has this been discussed and is the merger of Haren and Groningen part of that smart city strategy, of that European project?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u20	No, not that I know of. To be honest, I can't imagine that either. Because if Groningen wanted to participate in a European smart-city project, Groningen could do so, with or without a reclassification with Ten Boer or Haren. That seems to me to be two separate cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u21	The minister says Haren's situation is fragile. Indeed, there has been an investigation, where bottlenecks have been identified. But they were in fact only in the financial field. Haren tried to do something about that. Of course, you do not know exactly how that will work in the longer term, but the first results are very encouraging. So that seems very good. Then the Minister says: that was not the only thing, there is much more. But that never really ended up in the pieces. Nor did the Province use that as an argument. Why do we have to use that after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u22	I have outlined the coherence between the financial position, the power of administration and the role that is expected of municipalities in partnerships. So I see it as a broader issue. Of course, municipal finances are an important basis for administrative power, but certainly not the only one. Knowing that steps have been taken by Haren herself to improve precisely those two points, was the question I just raised: is that enough? The opinion is that this is not enough given the environment in which Haren sits, with a larger municipality as one neighbor, with an even larger municipality as another neighbor and with many refurbished municipalities in the region. Then the judgment is that given that weakness that was already there, which probably does not provide sufficient confidence and security for the future, also for the inhabitants of Haren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u23	Of course, the Minister has every right to make such an assessment. But if that has never been passed on to the municipality, if it has not been explained by the province, because that motivation was much more limited, then the municipality of Haren is not completely wrong, and is it not logical that Haren feels that what has been asked has been met, but that it is suddenly not enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u24	I will go into all the questions that have been asked a little more specifically later. I will also go into more detail about Ten Hoeve's questions. I started by saying that I understand that people are asking: what should we have done to...? So I'm not blaming anyone in Haren either. But I do think that we should all be prepared to look a little further in the future, including the developments in the region, and to ask ourselves whether, given the context that exists and given an unoptimistic starting position, this municipality could have improved that leg. We have to ask ourselves whether it is better to say: we take the responsibility to ensure a more sustainable and, in fact, a more secure future for the administration of the municipality of Haren in this new reorganised municipality. And that's what the county did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u25	I have two questions for the Minister, but perhaps she will come to that in a moment. At the beginning of her speech she indicated that she knew it had been a turbulent period for Haren. I also understand that the Minister is now mainly in the defensive position and says: okay, this is the situation and this is what we have chosen. But this is also the Chamber of reflection. How does the Minister judge that this has been experienced? Mr. Chairman. I hear a bang now and I see someone tripping over a chair. It's a turbulent time here in the First Chamber, as you can see. But it ends well with D66, I see. Excuse me, Madam President, but I was distracted by that near-fall. Let's get back to the question. Does the Minister feel that way? How come it's so turbulent? Has that process really gone completely clean all over the place? That's one. Yesterday I spoke with Mr Engels about the confidence that should be created in one way or another. Does the Minister have any ideas about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u26	Reflecting on how this went down, it's pretty much an end back in time. Like your Chamber, I can only really test a few things: the policy framework and the law. That test also goes through this reclassification proposal. But, as I did say, I also notice those feelings of discontent. You'll all notice. Of course, it's finer when reclassifications come from the bottom up and municipalities actually come out of it themselves. So I don't want to take anything away from that. At the same time, we also ask our provinces to form an opinion and sometimes also to judge what the future should look like. This fragile administrative power has been pointed out at various times. If you notice that and you wonder how this can be remedied in the future and if the momentum is there, the municipalities of Groningen and Ten Boer will go into that reclassification, the other surrounding municipalities have actually been re-organised already, I think you should look into it. Then you should also be able to draw the conclusion, provided that it complies with the policy framework and the law, that the reclassification is in the interest of the municipalities concerned. And the trust...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u27	I'll get to that in a minute. But in order to finish this, in fact, you are pointing out to me that even this is going to go back to the policy framework and whether it complies with it and so on. But apart from that, I think it would help the people of Haren if they also had a little sense that at least there is understanding that this turbulentness is not only on the side of the people who did not want it, but that there might have been steps in the process that might have had to be different. This reflection is also important, not only for now, but also for the future in other cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u28	I think there's two ways. One: if this reclassification is to take place, ensure that, as from 1 January, the promises made will be kept. These promises are about the survival of the cores in this new municipality. They mean that the villages and the cores, including Haren, remain recognizable with their own character and identity, which of course is also about greenery. That's one thing. That this is going well and that the new governance has that responsibility, I think is very important. And looking back, of course we have to learn from it. We can't reverse it. That is why I also said that I am talking not only to IPO and VNG, but also to the municipalities and provinces that have themselves been involved in reclassifications, precisely to learn from them and to see if we can somehow express them in this new policy framework. I think we all feel that we are here, and that was no different in the House of Representatives at the end of a long journey that you can no longer influence, but that in a formal sense you can only test by the framework and by the law. There's something very unsatisfactory in that. I fully agree with Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u29	It is precisely this test of the policy framework and the law, in particular the test of the policy framework, that raises a number of questions for me. I have seen the arguments of all these various municipal reclassifications passing by, the letters sent to the provinces and sent from the provinces to the minister. And you always see the standard formulations, the standard letters, the fixed strings passing by why a reclassification would be necessary, but real depth is not in it. There's no measurable effect in it. It's just the standard formulations that come along. Why doesn't the Minister just continue to look at the depth that should be behind such a review, just to see what is really possible and what is really going to happen now instead of being satisfied with these standard formulations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u30	The answer, Madam President, is that we now have the policy framework that exists, the law as it is. As I said just now in response to Mr Schalk, I think that we should, of course, learn as much as possible from the reclassifications that have been made for the new policy framework. This point could also be included. I consider the involvement of residents to be very important. I think it is very important that it should be done from below, if possible. In fact, I think it is important to be able to measure whether the level of service has actually improved and, therefore, has been in the interests of the inhabitants. I think all these facts are very relevant, but that does not alter the fact that we are now where we are, with these reclassification proposals. I can't take away how this happened. I can test it and that test is positive in the sense that the framework and the law have been complied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u31	We're where we are now, but none of those reclassifications are final. Especially for the reclassification of Haren, there is quite a bit of opposition and criticism. It is precisely then that you should see if the review is sufficient. We are talking about a policy framework. It's not a law, so there's room for self-assessment, even as a minister. It is said that there is insufficient administrative power in such a municipality, but that power of administration is not measured by anything. There is no indication of how this administrative power should develop. There are no testable frameworks. So why go ahead at the moment and simply say: we are where we are now? Okay, but there's still a way back at this point. Then why continue on this incorruptible road?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u32	Those are, of course, the words Mr van Hattem chooses. This, of course, has been decided here, because they have all been democratic processes. We have now given many tasks to the municipalities. These are tasks that are in very good hands with the municipalities, because they are the layer of government closest to the people. We have had major decentralisations. I call it the Environment Act, which is still coming. These are large, complex tasks that need to be properly carried out, especially in the interests of the citizens of the municipalities concerned. Many municipalities themselves state that they simply do not have the administrative and organizational power to do so in a good way and seek partnerships, new divisions, reclassifications or scaling up, whatever you call it. They do this precisely because they want to be able to carry out these tasks well. I think we can draw a conclusion from that, even when it comes to this municipality. Some of the municipalities say: we think we can do this on our own. That is doubtful, given the tasks that have come to all the municipalities in the Netherlands. Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to say a few words about the five-hinged countries in their introductory remarks. Then a few words about the Hoeksche Waard and then I can continue to answer the specific questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u33	Do you think you'll be done with that at about nine o'clock?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u34	With everything? I'll talk as soon as I can. Five lord countries is a reclassification of the bottom. It is particularly natural, because the new municipality to be formed is classified in the province of Utrecht. The main point of discussion in this legislative proposal is the change in the classification of legal partnerships. There is a great deal of attention to this, also in the interests of continuity, when it comes to security, for example. At the request of the municipalities and both provinces, a trial counsellor has been appointed from my ministry to bring this to a good end result. This change also involves costs. We have also discussed this with the parties involved, because entry and exit takes place at every reclassification and that costs a lot. We always figure it out. On 6 July last, I indicated in the replies that we are now looking forward to this with confidence. I'm sure you've seen all that. I will come back specifically to the questions on this subject. The Hoeksche Waard is a reclassification of municipalities that we can say have not gone ice over one night, because there has been 50 years of discussion about the best administrative establishment on this island. I think the main societal challenge of the Hoeksche Waard is to preserve the vitality of the island. They're actually aging strongly. Young people are pulling away. There are many consequences of this, both at the level of provision and at the level of living, well-being and care. The five lectures and the five municipal councils have unanimously agreed that doing nothing is not an option given these developments. There was actually agreement on a common future and one identity at regional level, but there were two directions for resolution. One direction of solution was reclassification and the other was strengthened cooperation with perseverance and neither option was decisive or convincing support. This is why the province of Zuid-Holland has taken the lead with the agreement of the municipalities. After all these years of discussion there is now a reclassification of the five municipalities. Enhanced cooperation as an alternative proved not viable. Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Köhler and Mr Schalk asked why, in spite of this varying support, there was no unanimous support for this. I think this is linked to the fact that inter-municipal cooperation can only be done on a voluntary basis. The support for enhanced cooperation is actually more limited than the support for this reclassification. This is particularly true when we look not only at the municipalities, but also at civil society, the works councils of the five municipalities and the business community. Then it points more in the direction of this reclassification. Besides, everyone agreed that doing nothing wasn't an option. That makes this reclassification inevitable, I think, that sounds actually negative.... and on balance just good, because there is a new municipality that can be a stronger player in that regional context. The five municipalities are now jointly preparing very constructively for these reclassifications, for which I would like to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u35	I asked the Minister in the first place why, when measuring the basis of support, she placed the opinion of the majority of the population outside the equation every time. Now in her answer, she does it again. She calls those parties and those parties and says that they balance each other a bit. That is true, but there have also been polls among the population and where these polls have taken place was 70% against that merger. That is a complete lack of support for this solution, isn't it? Why do you miss that point every time, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u36	I think support is important and there are several ways to organise and measure support. There is no way of doing that, and there is nowhere in the policy framework or in the law that this should be done by means of such a poll as Mr Köhler is talking about. In this particular case, the Hoeksche Waard, we have found that five municipalities say they see it has to be different in the future, but that they actually don't figure out together how to do it, that there are different variants and that they think differently about it. They're asking the county to take control and get them out of that impasse. That's what happened. I outlined that there were actually two options: a reclassification option and an enhanced cooperation option. For neither of these options was a convincing majority in the municipalities, in the municipal councils. That's why I said it's good that they've also looked a little more broadly at the parties I mentioned. The population of the various municipalities is also a factor. Mr Köhler says that you cannot look at this alone. Then I would like to turn it around and say to Mr Köhler that you cannot only look at the support level as he measures it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u37	I certainly don't. I have also noted that three of the five municipal councils are against the proposed merger. In addition, I have found that 70% of the inhabitants of the municipality are opposed to this in three municipalities. Adding all that up makes me think you can't conclude, as the Minister does, that the support for and against each other keeps a little in balance. It is true that 70% and 30% keep each other in balance, but if you put it on a balance, it is quite clear that it will go to the 70% side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u38	Mr Köhler cites the support that has been measured among the population, but there is no agreement in the law, the policy framework or this cooperation of those five municipalities and the province of South Holland that that is the way to measure the support. I think support is very important, but I also think it is important that these municipalities themselves have said: we have to get out of this and we ask the province to take the lead. A variant that was not the preferred variant of everyone, but which seems to be workable in the end, also shows that the five municipalities themselves are currently preparing to work in this way on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u39	Mr. Van Hattem. You have a different question than Mr Köhler, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u40	Sure. I hear the Minister say something about support. My question really is what the Minister really means by support. What I heard you say specifically, and I had that discussion with Mr Engels of D66 yesterday, was that of organising support. But there is or isn't support. It's worn or not worn. So organizing support is actually working towards a desired direction. Is that what the minister means under support?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u41	What I understand is that the municipality is not only responsible for presenting a final decision or the way they choose to do it, but also for bringing people into what they do. So if municipalities themselves find that they do not have the organizational capacity to carry out the tasks that have come to them well, that can of course be very well observed by residents, but it can also very well be the municipal organisation or the city council itself that finds that they must, of course, take their inhabitants into account. Then it is important for them to say to their residents: if you want to be able to rely on us in the future for your care in the neighbourhood, for your identity cards, for any job that every resident needs their own municipality for, then it is better if we find a different scale with each other, then it is better if we enter into a partnership or then it is better if we go together with another municipality. That's what I mean by organizing support. So explain to people why you think it's not sustainable in some way and in some other way it is. Then, of course, people can form a judgment, but they cannot do so without information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u42	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u43	I would like to see that as two different things. On the one hand, you have steered in a certain direction; that is what the Minister means. On the other hand, you have support that there is or isn't there. That is something that can be determined and measured, and then you can say: that is the way the population and all other factors in a municipality look at that. But that is not a direction, and that is what the Minister is actually referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u44	At least what I meant was: take people with you why you want to make a certain choice as a municipality. I also think it is the duty of politicians, municipal councils and municipal authorities to do so as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u45	I don't quite understand the choice that has been made. All five municipalities come to the conclusion that something must be done. There are two ways of doing that. Now the choice is made for the alternative that has the least support. Everyone wants to do something. Three don't really want to merge and two do, but they all want to do something. Then the lesser option of cooperation would be more obvious, wouldn't it? That will create the least resistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u46	There were two options. The enhanced cooperation was one option and the reclassification was the other option. Inter-municipal cooperation is voluntary. Well, that makes sense. Two municipalities voted unanimously or by a large majority against the alternative of enhanced cooperation. It is already complicated on a voluntary basis if two, namely Oud-Beijerland and Strijen, say: we do not want this enhanced cooperation. In the other municipalities there were also substantial minorities who spoke against it, so there is no ground under voluntary enhanced cooperation. In fact, this left the other alternative, namely the reclassification. Given that the five municipalities themselves have encouraged the province to take the lead, given that this has been a subject of the question of how we can manage this part of the Netherlands, this region well and given that the municipalities are also changing strongly, or actually the whole region is facing major challenges due to the ageing population and the facilities needed for it, I cannot understand anything about supporting measurements that have been made that the government has chosen this variant anyway. I am pleased that they are preparing for this reclassification, because I think that indicates that they themselves have confidence in that shared future. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a number of questions of a general nature. I shall begin with the vital local democracy that Mrs Bikker spoke about yesterday. As I said earlier, the municipality is the closest place for people to participate in democracy. I would like to create a lot of space for customization myself. I believe that what I have just mentioned is district-oriented work, active core policy, ensure that area committees can be set up and can be found in the letter on the plan of action to strengthen local democracy. I pay very particular attention to investing in the involvement of residents, to ensure that people are involved in their municipality. I like to see that, in fact, all the new re-organised municipalities that are about to emerge have chosen to focus on the proximity of government and the involvement of people. Mrs Bikker also asked if...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u47	This is quite paradoxical, isn't it? You're talking about the proximity of government, but the administration is getting farther away from the people. You then come up with district committees, with village councils, with active core policies, but the best form of an active core policy and no need to have a village council is simply a city council in your own community. This is now being put overboard, to use a non-legislative instrument as a village council where there is no active control, for which there is no system of elections, where integrity cannot be controlled. I referred to that yesterday as a surrogate for a city council; it has to serve that purpose. How can the Minister say that this strengthens democracy, while there is no democratic legitimacy underneath it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u48	Firstly, I do not agree with the statement that there is no democratic legitimacy in a larger municipality. I mean, why should there not be democratic legitimacy in The Hague or Rotterdam or Amsterdam or Utrecht? That's bullshit, of course. We have very large municipalities in the Netherlands and we have relatively small municipalities. There is quite a difference, but there is nothing wrong with democratic legitimacy in larger municipalities in the Netherlands. But I do think it is good, especially when municipalities are being reorganised and thus become part of a larger whole, to pay extra attention to the identities, to the neighbourhoods, just as it is happening in larger municipalities of course, but you have to organize that. You can have the advantage of a larger organizational power that a larger municipality, also has a redistributed, and at the same time don't lose what a smaller municipality might have more automatic, namely the feeling of that identity. Well, both can go together very well, we know from experience, and also for these reclassifications that is something that will be given a lot of attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u49	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u50	The Minister still misses the port of my question. It really is about such organisations, such as village councils and the like, where there are often very well-meaning volunteers, but where it can sometimes be less good and where there is therefore no control or permanent organisation behind it, which is put in place by the minister, as an alternative to a real city council that can implement a genuine core policy with legitimacy. Now they have to look back at the city council as village or district council and come up with an opinion on whether something can be done. There are no procedures for that advice. There are no elections for how that should be organised. It's all just a little love work, old paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u51	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u52	That is why my question is: how can the Minister say that this strengthens democracy, when it ignores a democratic body, places it in a more abstract context and replaces this less tightly organized alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u53	No, because if a municipality chooses to do so, for example, with such a council, it is not, of course, in the place of the democratically elected council and also the supervisory body, the city council. There's just a city council. Nothing democratic is being pushed aside. There will be a new municipality with a new city council, which is responsible and eight for all residents, also in a restored municipality. Speaking of municipal councils, Mrs Bikker had another question. She asked whether municipal councils are actually a reflection of society, of the municipalities. I think we have to see together, even after the previous municipal elections, that this is not actually the case, because the average city council member is a highly educated middle-aged man. That is certainly not a reflection. I think it is also good to pay attention to this and to create a little more diversity and difference, but that is mainly through the line of the political parties themselves. I think there are ways to improve that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u54	You didn't want to respond yet, Mrs. Bikker?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u55	I'm waiting for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u56	Maybe to finish it. I have also indicated in the Plan of Action Democracy in Action that we need to find ways to do that. I have also made available a budget for innovation, so that municipalities that have good ideas for it can themselves provide better support and equipment for those political ministers. Thus, political parties themselves, as well as the municipalities, can invent ways to create more space for a more diverse population within local democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u57	Mrs. Bikker, is it now time for your interruption? Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u58	Fantastic, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. As far as I am concerned, the Minister gives a good first step, but I would like to take that step further. What does the Minister intend to achieve at the end of this four-year period in which she will make a strong commitment to local democracy? When will she be satisfied? Does it need the VNG and the political parties to sit down and write the right to challenge, so to speak, "come on, show us how we can change this" to them? What would the Minister say would that mean for the turnout rates?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u59	Those turnout rates must, of course, be raised, at least that would be nice. I was happy when they increased by one percent in the previous elections, but we cannot be satisfied with that. The turnout rates are significantly lower at local level, at municipal level, than at national elections, so that would certainly be nice. When will I be satisfied? I see it as my job to especially create space for municipalities to implement this themselves. I don't think these are things where you have to impose that from above, saying: that's how you should do it. It's actually the opposite. Now, this is an excellent thing that comes from the bottom. I also know, on the basis of my own experience, that there is sometimes tension between municipal councils on the one hand and the tasks that local councils have, and hence the responsibility that local councils have, and on the other hand the things that local residents say "we can actually do that ourselves" or "we have good ideas about that ourselves." There are a lot of good examples in the Netherlands where that happened, where experimented with them. I think it is also a matter of mentality that municipal councils say: we are going to organise it in such a way that we involve our citizens as much as possible in our decision-making, and we can do so through the right to challenge and the right to pray so now give it out of our hands to our inhabitants. As far as I am concerned, it is part of the process of implementing this in consultation with the UNG and indeed with individual municipalities that have a question or a good example of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u60	Mrs Bikker, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u61	Then I have two more things for the Minister. Because it's "finally," I'll do it together. How is the Minister going to report on this so that we can really see the vitality that the Minister wants to regain further? It must not only be about how many plans we have made, but we must also see that councils are growing stronger and that residents recognise themselves in them. A turnout rate is, of course, a very easy one to see that people are attracted to. I'm really open to all kinds of ideas, but it's got to be better. That's what I'm saying as a former councilman and looking back at how I did it myself. There's just profit. I would very much like to hear this Minister's ambitions back at different times in time, so that we can keep each other on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u62	Perhaps I could refer Mrs Bikker to the letter I just sent about it. That is what I shall be holding the debate on with the House of Representatives. I have, of course, also discussed this in detail with the UNG. That is the basis for what can happen in the coming period. In any case, I will come back to this regularly with the VNG. I just think that the House of Representatives will also say: nice letter, but we would like to hear how that goes at some point. In this way, I would also like to give your Chamber an opportunity to monitor that. Perhaps that would satisfy Mrs Bikker for now, but I am well aware that this will have to become much more concrete further down the road. That's the idea. Mrs Bikker and Mr Köhler asked whether there is actually a limit to increasing the scale every time. Of course there is such a limit, because we come from a multitude of municipalities in the Netherlands. If this reclassification continues, we're going to 355 municipalities. Of course, that ends somewhere. At the same time, I think it is important to take as a starting point that there is no such thing as an ideal size of a municipality. It depends precisely on the challenges that exist and the opportunities that arise. The scale should actually focus on that. This means that you cannot say in advance that it is always so many inhabitants or that it must be a maximum or at least so many municipalities. I don't think that's how it works. It is about the tasks, the common challenges that we all face, the tasks that we have given to municipalities and the necessary organisational power, the power of administration that is needed for this. You can't express that in an ideal size. Mr. Chairman. Mr Lintmeijer asked about the democratic deficit in cooperation. I have already mentioned this in the introduction, namely that cooperation because of the challenges, such as the Environmental Law and the Decentralisations, often leads to a new need at local level. But, of course, there are also bigger tasks. I mentioned just for example the economy... where you can achieve more through cooperation, so without formal changes in the organizational sense. In all these different forms a democratic deficit can be experienced by its own city council. The city council has budget law, so it is about money that is put into such a partnership in such a case. Cooperation must be legitimised, but there is not always a legal basis for this because municipalities can also decide on a voluntary basis. I think it is important, however, to refer once again to the letter I have sent on this subject, namely that, when it comes to a common regulation, the municipal councils should be able to carry out their monitoring tasks. I know that many municipal councils feel that they are not really capable of doing so. I would like to improve this, for example, that a view of municipal councils should always be sought before a common regulation is allowed to take the decision. There are more proposals, but you will find them in that letter. Mr. Chairman. Then I am now through the questions of a more general nature, and I go back to the specific questions that have been asked about Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer. Mrs. Huijbregts asked: would it be conceivable that she had already found that the fragile was that the municipality of Haren operates sustainably independently within the renewed Groningen administrative and urban network? I don't think that's possible. As I said, even if you want to operate in these partnerships as an independent municipality, you must be able to defend the interests of your residents. The municipalities of Groningen and Ten Boer have explicitly indicated that they are now going to take this step. So it also has to do with the momentum. There is now a momentum for this reclassification for the longer term. I think that Groningen and Ten Boer have said: it is not desirable to have this discussion again within a few years, while we are now in the middle of it. We must also take that to heart. Mr Ten Hoeve asked: is it really about Haren or is it about the situation around Haren? I understand that in itself. There are concerns about the administrative future of the municipalities in the province of Groningen and the limited capacity to tackle complex societal challenges. These are the arguments put forward by the province of Groningen and the other municipalities. I have just referred to the visitation committee and what it has found. But the visitation committee also found that Groningen would be the logical partner. Given the combination of Groningen and Ten Boer, the Visitation Committee says: that is actually the logical option for Haren. In other words, it's not just about Haren herself, it's definitely about Haren herself. Mrs Bikker also asked if Tynaarlo could not be looked at. No research has been carried out by the province of Groningen on the option Tynaarlo, because that option was not considered an option by the municipality of Haren itself. In the phase of the open consultation that the province entered into, the municipality had two tracks in mind: independence and, if not possible, reclassification with Groningen and Ten Boer. That was also a question from Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u63	We are once again asking why this is happening. The Minister says that it is not just about the position of Haren; it is also about the position of the whole region, and it is about the momentum, because Groningen and Ten Boer want it now and that is why it has to do so at the same time. That's not a very good argument, considering the whole procedure that Haren went through, that you need to be dragged along. That's one point. The second is that the whole argument that it would be necessary because of the total and the administrative power of the whole is not really reflected in the procedure. The province is only tossing it at Haren, and the minister has actually done so in her reply. As far as Haren himself is concerned, that is where the feeling is 'we have met all the requirements'. Here, the procedure is different from what, according to the Minister, seems to be a very large part of the background. That's not okay, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u64	There are several reasons. There are several arguments. I've been trying to walk them all by. Mr Ten Hoeve asked whether it was only because of Haren or because of Groningen and Ten Boer. It is also because of the fact that Groningen and Ten Boer have been working together for a long time, and at some point have said that this should actually lead to a follow-up step. Of course, this also has to do with other reclassifications that have already been established in the region, such as Central Groningen. But the essence of the matter is, in my view, the observation of the vulnerability of Haren. This vulnerability has also been a cause for concern for a long time and is really a supporting reason for the reclassification advice that has been issued. If you then see the future that there was now a reclassification whereby Haren, as the province has directed, could join, it would be very annoying for those two municipalities if that were not to happen, and in a few years' time it turns out that it will have to happen. Then you'd have to go back into one of those reclassification pathways. So there are a lot of things coming together in this proposal. I have tried to broaden it, but the core of the issue is the vulnerability of the administrative power in Haren itself. I have just told Mr Engels that there is no agreement and that there is no involvement of The Hague. Maybe I could go a little deeper into the process. All administrative bodies that have an involvement in the reclassification procedure under the ARHI Act, of course, do so on their own authority; that's what it's supposed to do. At the same time, in municipal reclassification processes, it is important that governments do not attack each other by suddenly activating their legal powers. There has been regular contact with provinces and municipalities from the Department of BZK. This is, of course, common at the time when reclassifications are being prepared or are in progress. All kinds of questions can arise in that process and in those contacts. Those contacts are there. I think that is important, because it is good for my department to be well informed about ongoing processes, so that there can also be thought and planning. This is also important for the quality of legislation. But these contacts must always take place openly, of course with respect for everyone's responsibility, as I said. Secret appointments don't belong in that. The province must be able to make its own assessment and must ensure that the considerations that are being made can pass the test of the policy framework. The province must also provide a supporting argument based on local circumstances, the regional context, the province's own intervention and the reclassification advice. Then, in a formal sense, the Minister for Foreign Affairs comes up and then the Council of Ministers, because we have to ask ourselves whether the reclassification advice in the form of a legislative proposal will be submitted to the States General. That's how this journey went. In my view, Mr Lintmeijer has been a careful process early on, including in the case of Groningen, Ten Boer and Haren. The entire trajectory is in the pieces. Perhaps it is not very useful to repeat all this here, but in the end the province has established the reclassification design. The reaction note to the reclassification opinion shows that the Province of Groningen has carefully assessed the views submitted and has also provided a response. Mr. Lintmeijer had an important question about the SW'ers, the people with a sheltered workshop in the municipality of Haren. Not only has an administrative agreement been drawn up, but also a staff agreement has been drawn up. That agreement was necessary in all cases, even if it was added to a slight merger, i.e. before the adjustment we had. That covenant stipulates that staff from both the municipality of Haren and the municipality of Ten Boer will be taken over by the new municipality of Groningen. The agreement explicitly pays attention to the WSW's with permanent employment under the WSW collective agreement. These employees joined the municipality of Haren on 1 January 2016. They therefore have the same rights as the other employees of the municipality of Haren. Mr Schalk asked if I had had any contact with a delegation from Haren. That was actually an answer to his question as to whether I understand the points raised by this delegation. There has been regular written contact at official level with the Citizens' Committee. A Dg from the Ministry also had a discussion with a delegation from the Citizens' Committee, and also with the Mayor and the College of the Municipality of Haren. Of course, this happened with the intention that the concerns should be taken seriously. That's what I really stand for. I told you, there's a board agreement now. In that administrative agreement, agreements were made on how to address the concerns that exist in the municipality of Haren. One of these agreements is about not building until 2040 in the transitional area between Groningen and the villages of Haren and Ten Boer. That's important. I therefore hope that this will be the test of the decision, if your Chamber agrees to the reclassification proposal, and that the new responsible leaders of the municipality will not only endeavour to comply with those agreements, but also to include the citizens of the new municipality, including Haren, in it as much as possible. I also hope that the citizens who have been so committed in recent times will continue to work for the interest of the inhabitants in the new municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u65	One interruption, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u66	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I have a question about the green transition zone between the municipality of Groningen and the municipality of Haren. It sounds nice and nice that it is recorded that there will not be built until 2040, but to what extent can such an appointment be made? We will soon have flexible environmental plans with the Environment Act, so it will be easier to deviate from existing plans anyway. Project developers, who often look beyond a period of twenty years, can set their watch accordingly that there will be opportunities from 2040 onwards. So how can the Minister guarantee that it will not be fully built in the meantime? And what does that mean for the slightly longer term? We are talking about a period of barely twenty years. For spatial planning development it is possible to look a little further than such a relatively short period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u67	I think it is quite a long period until 2040, but, apart from that, first of all, agreements have been made. The board agreement is there for a reason. That is the basis on which we can assume: that is just how it is and that is not going to change in the meantime. That's the touchstone for everyone. Furthermore, municipalities can, of course, take up new positions. They do that every now and then. That freedom is there, if it is at least a subject for which local autonomy applies. But if you make this kind of agreement in this administrative agreement, of course, it is totally out of the question, and it is also very undesirable to change it in the meantime. No, this is the base. A management agreement is not called an administrative agreement for nothing. This applies to the new re-classified municipality. If it says "we are not going to build until 2040 in the transitional area between Groningen and the two villages involved in this reclassification," then until 2040 there is no construction in the transitional area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u68	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u69	I said one interruption, Mr. Van Hattem. You still have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u70	Okay, then don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u71	Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Köhler made a comment on the financial situation. It's still risky. Indeed, Haren has been committed to restoring the financial position. They've also made cuts. Looking at the annual accounts of 2016 that's the last one out there we see that the financial position remains risky. But I have just said that the risky financial position is not the only reason to choose the reclassification, because that has just as well to do with the fragile administrative power and the other things I have just listed. Mr Köhler said that Groningen's financial position is not entirely perfect either. Because of their differences in size, the municipalities are also not one-on-one comparable. The municipality of Groningen is of course much better able as a large municipality to absorb financial risks, so you cannot compare the two budgets in that way one-on-one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u72	Mr. Köhler, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u73	That must be possible, Mr President, despite the fact that this was a comparison of two municipalities. The municipality of Groningen I have added more for the purpose of advocacy and not at all because I think that there is so much risk there. I only note that the Minister says that Haren's finances remain risky and that we are going to solve that by merging with a municipality where the key figures are not better. That does not seem to me to be so obvious in terms of logic. My core question is whether the current financial figures of the municipality of Haren are so bad that lifting the municipality is the only or best-possible answer. If so, isn't that true for all those municipalities in the country? I'm guessing that there are as many as 100 municipalities where the financial position is as good or bad as in the municipality of Haren? I have already asked the Minister that question in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u74	I think that for every municipality in the Netherlands it is very important that its financial position is good enough. We have agreements in the Netherlands about how things are if they are not. I have also just outlined that the financial position is vulnerable and not good enough. I also said that the annual accounts of 2017 are the last on the basis of which we can form a judgement. The financial position is not good enough, but that is not the only reason for wanting to go into this reclassification. The position is risky and that is still the term that COELO puts on it and therefore vulnerable to the future, but that is not the only reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u75	Mr. Nagel, one interruption, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u76	I asked in the first period what the risk is. It is discussed openly that the new municipality of Groningen could have an article 12 status. I've been through that in my own congregation, and I know what that can mean for residents. Does the Minister reasonably exclude an article 12 status for the new municipality of Groningen or not? How does she put this on the risk scale?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u77	No, it is not at all reasonable to assume that the new municipality of Groningen should consider an article 12 status in the short term. The auditor concludes in the report of the findings for the year 2017 that the financial position is sufficient. I quote: given the position of resistance, there is not a direct risk that the municipality of Groningen will not be able to meet the obligations. So there is no such expectation. I'm still a little bit into the financials. Mr Ten Hoeve wondered how the taxes would go in the new municipality. I suppose the inhabitants will improve on it as a whole. You can imagine there's a municipal tax going up in the new situation. I think that is what Mr Ten Hoeve was referring to. There is a good professional service for citizens in a municipality that is also future-proof. Heren has had to cut back in order to get the finances back on track. In the new municipality there will again be room to raise the service level. It is not up to us, not to me, but to the new city council to determine what charges and tariffs will apply in the new municipality. It is therefore very difficult, in general terms, to make statements about this. It's mentioned in the board agreement. Paragraph 8 of the agreement states, inter alia, that, where legally possible, the new municipality will adopt a transitional phase in order to gradually increase any burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u78	Mr. Ten Hoeve, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u79	Of course, the financial situation is not everything, but it is true that the figures currently available suggest that taxes will increase. The Minister then says that the opposite is the fact that people are being well cared for. Then you get a competent civil service that can take full responsibility for the service. The amazing thing is, of course, that at the moment the inhabitants are already so terribly satisfied with Haren that it has been declared the third best housing community in the Netherlands. This argument, that it will be better in terms of facilities, probably does not impress the inhabitants as much. They have to pay more and that comes in a big pot, which so far has less available than in Haren. What kind of favourable expectations can you actually attach to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u80	The expectation that the inhabitants of Haren will also have an interest in being part of a stable municipality, I mean financially stable, I mean administratively, with an official organisation that is able, even in the long term, to provide adequate services, to live in a municipality that also plays a role in the regional cooperations that Groningen is part of. In short, a future in a municipality that is more sustainable and less uncertain than in the current circumstances. For those who say that they are already very satisfied with the services they are now receiving from their congregation; that is, say, the minimum level of what the inhabitants can expect in the new, reorganised municipality. I'll see if I've answered all the questions about Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer. Actually, I think I do. Then I'd like to walk through some other reclassifications, starting with the Hoeksche Waard. Mr Lintmeijer made a few comments. I have just outlined something, including in the case of interruption, about the five municipal councils that were of course different in that regard. All five have said that they are now preparing for these reclassifications and the combination. The question was: what is being done by the province and the municipalities to prepare it? They have set up a project organisation and it has already started its work. Meanwhile, the five lectures have appointed an intended municipal secretary and they are looking for a clerk, so they have really taken important steps towards this new situation. I believe that we can therefore also rely on the fact that the province and the municipality will be able to set up a functioning joint administrative organisation on 1 January. Mr Lintmeijer also asked what lessons we could draw from the merger Goeree-Overflakkee and the period after. Goeree-Overflakkee was born on 1 January 2013. That was a merger of four municipalities. This is of course also a geographical whole, with recognizable villages, with individuality or identity, if you like. After the reclassification, people started working together much more; entrepreneurs also started working together to give that new municipality a certain recognition. A good example is that entrepreneurs, together with the municipality, the province and educational institutions, have worked to deal with these demographic developments that are also taking place there, and have started to create new jobs, to ensure that people stay there and that those residents also identify with that new municipality. So there are indeed interesting lessons to be learned from that reclassification. Mrs. Bikker... Apologies, in the meantime I have passed through the questions about the Hoeksche Waard and I like to go to Five Lord countries. Mrs Bikker asked a question about that. The former CdK Jansen wrote a report on it. That's what Mrs. Bikker asked for. A municipal reclassification may therefore involve........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That must of course be the exception. It's gonna be very confusing if we wanted to do that too many times, but it's possible. We must then find a solution in the proposal and also in practice. That's what happened in this case. This means a lot of consultation with the municipalities and the provinces. Mr Jansen's lessons or observations have been taken into account. The desire for or need for a municipal reclassification should be the starting point when assessing whether a provincial border should be changed. That's one of his advices. In addition, the criteria used for the choice of province will have to be made clear in the reclassification design and the reclassification advice. In any event, the preference of the local councils concerned and the impact of the regional border change on regional cooperation can be considered. In the new policy framework, I will certainly include these points, i.e. the lessons from the Jansen report and the consideration that has been made in the case of five lord countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u81	Mrs. Bikker, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u82	Can the Minister also forward that new policy framework to this Chamber? I assume she's already agreed to that, but just to be safe. My main question here is how to do justice to citizens who object to moving to another province. So this is not reflected in the reclassification; that was the issue here. I don't think it's arranged enough right now. Can the Minister answer that? I assume that in her reply she is still referring to Article 41 (7) of the ARHI Act and the requested clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u83	Yes. Of course, there is no problem in sending the policy framework to this Chamber. I do not want to anticipate this point and the question of how it will end up in the policy framework. I would say, however, that the lessons from this reclassification, for example, must of course be taken into account, as I would almost say: of course, the point that Mrs Bikker raises. Only the question is, of course, whether you should always want to regulate everything in such a policy framework. But I'm sure I'll come back to it. Mrs Bikker also asked if other ministers, professionally involved directors, would be watching such a provincial border change. In this case, the relevant ministries are JenV, IenW and VWS. They are involved and have also been taken into account in the developments. In the case of voluntary partnerships, the participating municipalities should actually determine the impact of the reclassification on their cooperation. There are deadlines and regulations for this in the law. The municipalities must have regulated the changes up to six months after the reclassification. Provinces can add six more months, if that is really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u84	Mr. Engels, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u85	One interruption, Madam President. I welcome the intention to develop a new policy framework. Looking back at certain processes, especially those of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer, I wondered the following. The ARHI Act has been regularly cited. This is referred to when it is said that a number of things have not gone well, in terms of legality, care and so on. Wouldn't it be a good idea for the Minister to think about whether or not to look at the ARHI Act again? It was revised a long time ago. I have the idea that perhaps it is not clear to everyone involved what exactly is the division of roles between the municipality, the province and the Empire. Terms are also used that do not appear in the law, "from below," for example. The term 'open consultation' also gives rise to extremely many misunderstandings. The Minister and the Council of Ministers have a position within the framework of legislation on municipal border changes, as provided for in Article 123 of the Constitution. This may well require a review of the policy framework to see whether the ARHI Act can be clarified on a number of points, precisely in order to avoid unnecessary noise on the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u86	It seems to me, of course, appropriate to make the link to the law in that policy framework. At the moment, I cannot see whether the new policy framework should lead to changes to the law, but I certainly should not rule it out in advance either. I can therefore very well follow Mr Engels' suggestion. Mrs Bikker asked about Article 41 (7) of the ARHI Act. This Article lays down rules on the consequences of a common reclassification for voluntary partnerships. According to paragraph 7, this arrangement shall not apply to legal partnerships. In the reclassification proposal of five lord countries, the scheme in the ARHI Act for voluntary partnerships is also applicable to legal partnerships. I can see that Mrs Bikker is lucky enough to follow. Her question is, in fact, whether I am in favour of applying a general regulation in the ARHI Act on the implications of the reclassification for those legal partnerships, or whether I am in favour of amending the law on that point. I see now no reason to amend the ARHI Act on this point, because customization, as it turns out in this case, is possible. Each reclassification may consider whether specific arrangements should be made for the impact on a grouping. I think it would be good to maintain that flexibility, where appropriate, in order to ensure an appropriate regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u87	Mrs. Bikker, one, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, and I also have compliments for getting out of here, because that has proved complicated. It is actually very much in line with Mr Engels' question: at the same time, we have seen some ambiguity arising, which is contained in the ARHI Act and in the policy framework. In particular, my question is that we are looking not only at the policy framework, but also at the ARHI Act, particularly with regard to the common regulations that are not ratified and adopted by the city council. Wherever we can, we should clarify that. In my view, the Jansen report makes very firm, not too complicated recommendations on this matter. I ask the Minister to come back to the new policy framework, as well as to the commitment already made to Mr Engels, which I am very curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u89	Yes, I'd like to repeat that. I made that commitment. I believe that the new policy framework should not only be a new policy framework. We have seen in practice on a number of points that the current policy framework may be different, but it can also be useful to remove this kind of ambiguity, also in relation to the law. Whether the law as such needs to be clarified or adapted, we will still have to look at each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u90	Minister, may I ask how much longer you're going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u91	Mr President, I don't have much left. 9:00 a.m. I didn't make it, but I'll be through it in about ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u92	Ah, top!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u93	Questions have been asked by Mrs Huijbregts, Mr Lintmeijer and Mr Schalk about the costs of unbundling or changing legal partnerships. The reclassification of Five Lord countries will first identify what needs to be regulated. That's in full swing. The intention is that in September 2018 the financial consequences of the exit and entry will be transparent. The last few weeks have already been really important steps taken by the advisory committee, which, of course, includes the two provinces concerned, Utrecht and Zuid-Holland, but also the municipalities of Leerdam, Vianen and Zederik, and the Ministry of BZK. It is agreed that I referred to the letter of 6 July 2000 that the costs of entry and exit will not be borne by the remaining participants of the legal partnerships. That is, of course, an important shared starting point. For the direct real costs of exit and entry, the advisory committee shall determine which of the parties shall be represented on the advisory committee which part of the costs shall be borne.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u94	Mr. Schalk, one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u95	Certainly, Madam President. Thanks for the one. The Minister states that the report of 6 July states that the costs of entry and exit are not borne by the remaining participants of the legal partnerships. That is perhaps a bit of an explanation, because in the advisory committee it was said that the costs of exit and entry will not be borne by the owners of the common regulations in question other than the five-heiner counties. Actually, the minister's narrowed it down a bit. Would she like to go into this more precisely now or in the second period so that we know exactly what is going on? Where do these costs come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u96	I would like to say that more precisely to Mr Schalk in the second term, but I think that what he is now proposing and what I have just said is the same, namely the agreement that the costs will not be borne by the remaining participants in the legal partnerships. In other words, when a participant goes out, those who remain seated and who continue with each other in that partnership should not be burdened with those costs. I do not think that this is in contrast to what Mr Schalk has read, but I will come back to it very precisely in the second term. Mr. Chairman. There are two more questions about Five Lord countries. The first is from Mrs Huijbregts, who deals with voluntary partnerships, such as the labour market region. Of course, there are more voluntary partnerships. In fact, every time a kind of customization solution is chosen. I think it is a good thing that municipalities themselves have chosen the space to weigh up in all these partnerships, such as Work and Income, Lekstroom, Avres and the labour market region, on a collaborative basis. Mr Schalk spoke about a member of the State in Zederik who can no longer be a member of the State because he suddenly lives in Utrecht. That's right. It is about the State member Henk van Dieren of the SGP, who lives in Lexmond. It is one of the longest-sitting members of the Netherlands, namely for more than fourteen years, which is of course a great achievement. The Province Act stipulates that the members of Provincial States must be resident in the province concerned. I think we all take that for granted, because, of course, a people's representative lives in the municipality or the province in this case he represents. There is no exception to this legal requirement. Of course, there is a legally effective way to solve this and that is moving, but I don't know how practical that is for Henk van Dieren. Then there are a few questions about two other reclassifications and then I'm through with the questions. Mrs Huijbregts asked about Haarlemmerliede, Spaarnwoude and Haarlemmermeer how the Van den Bosch motion was implemented. The request in that motion is to ask the province of Noord-Holland to explore with the new municipality of Haarlem, the municipality of Haarlem and the inhabitants of Spaarndam whether a border correction is a sustainable solution for the village of Spaarndam and whether this can count on support from the inhabitants of Spaarndam. That's the text of the motion. The motion has been adopted and, of course, I shall do so. We have agreed that after completion of the reclassification, i.e. as of 1 January next, I will ask Deputy States of North Holland to table with all the parties mentioned in the motion to see if a border correction is desirable, after which I will, of course, inform the Chamber about it. Finally, Giessenlanden and Molenwaard. There are questions from Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Köhler, in this case about the support of the inhabitants of Arkel. The province of Zuid-Holland has indicated that the special position of Gorkum as a regional centre deserves special attention and that the province together with Gorkum and its surroundings, including the new municipality, will examine how this is possible. The House of Representatives asked for a motion to investigate how the centre function of Gorkum can be maintained. I'll make that motion, too. That is why contacts have now been established with the province of South Holland and the municipality of Gorkum. This will be further developed by mutual agreement. The attention for that center town is there. That's what the motion says, and I'll do it. In doing so, account shall be taken of the whole of the merging municipalities. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of the first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u97	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u98	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of the Minister's speech, I heard her make a significant mistake. She spoke about the municipality of Molenland in one of the municipalities to be reorganised. And of course we all know that this concerns the municipality of Molenwaard. But this does say something. This says something about the unrecognizability, the ambiguous nature of these new municipalities to be formed. A mistake like that doesn't come from the sky. When we are talking about Molenland or Molenwaard, which is the real name, it also evokes a bit of a reminder of the fictitious municipality of Molendijk, as Willem-Frederik Hermans used to call the municipality of Haren in his novel Among professors. It would be very nice to know at this time what Willem-Frederik Hermans would have found of the municipality of Groningen, to which his former hometown Haren would be attached. I don't think he'd have had a lot of good words for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u99	If I understand correctly, the new municipality is called Molenlanden, just to give it to the PVV spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u100	That might be the case, but I do not think the final name has yet been established. But at least it's not Molenland. But I don't care what they're gonna call that new town, it's about being just unrecognizable. The average citizen will not be able to identify anywhere on a map where Molenlanden lies. By the way, Millwaard is also an unrecognizable factor. This way we get scaled up without any recognition. That is also what the Minister himself stated in the first term. She says: the administrative organization is central, which must go along with her time and the coincidence with the local community is behind us. So she also says that Thorbecke's organic model is being released, because it looked at the historical development of municipalities and the communities behind them. He had gained inspiration for this in the German regions at the time, where such a historical development was also central to the formation of the municipality. Unfortunately, that idea is being released.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u101	Mr. Chairman. I promised you that I would not delay the debate unnecessarily. Besides, I'd like to leave on time, too. The entrance in the second term was not very good from the good colleague, but he is now giving a very wrong explanation of what Thorbecke's organic state teaching is in the framework of local government. That can't remain undisputed. That has nothing to do with local communities. "Organic state doctrine" means that the three levels of government grow along with social developments, that these are not fixed entities. I understand that it is in your interest to hold on to something that is indeed long gone, namely: a local community must be a local municipality, that's it. You have no arguments for this, but at least you are not using the wrong one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u102	Of course, that is the explanation we can expect from D66. That is the vision of 'all of us must be cosmopolitan, only European thinking, only more large-scale thinking'. That's the vision seen from a D66 glasses. The idea of individuality and identity is just a dirty word in circles of D66. That's why it doesn't count that there's a local community that wants to manage its own governance and its own organization. That's why D66 can get over it so easily, because only the administrative basis counts. Only the power of administration, whatever that power of administration is interesting, but not what lives in a community. That is what we see in many municipalities. It has been said many times in the town of Haren, and I can't repeat it often enough, three quarters of the population have said that she doesn't want a municipal reclassification. In the municipality of Hoeksche Waard, the majority of the population is opposed in three of the municipalities. In Underbanks, there was a poll in 2012, with a majority against. And yet this is pushed from above. This is simply indicative of how far citizens' politics stand. It only looks at the administrative interests rather than the interests of a community. That brings me to the essence of what we have here: imposing municipal reclassifications from above without involving the population. That brings me back to a question to the Minister, because in my first term I also mentioned the European Charter on Local Autonomy. Normally, the whole of The Hague is warm to everything that comes from Europe, and now it is very easy to put it aside. Why don't you turn the minister in? She says that the city council is involved, while the charter clearly states that a referendum should preferably take place. How can it so easily cross Article 5 of the Charter on local autonomy? Does a European treaty suddenly no longer matter? Then we have had the discussion about the long-term effects. We have found nowhere that there are clear indicators to measure the effects of administrative reclassification. I would ask the Minister once again whether these objectives can still be effectively tested, that administrative power can be effectively tested. Because it doesn't prove anything at all, except for all kinds of standard formulations with societal challenges. And these societal challenges can also be realised without reclassifications as an instrument. I have also quoted a quote from PhD candidate, Mr Bieuwe Geertsema, who said that all alarm bells should start ringing that there are absolutely no efficiency benefits to be gained from these reclassifications. My question was why the Minister didn't ring those alarm bells? Why only regroup and scale without being able to match measurable effects? Then I don't have any more first-term questions. The interruption just left a question about the administrative agreement for the municipality of Haren. What are we talking about in a management agreement like this? Such a thing is not legally enforceable and as easy to put aside as the coalition agreement made in the province of Groningen that no reclassifications would be imposed from above, which is now happening. How can the Minister guarantee that nothing will happen until 2040? We have often seen such administrative arrangements being made and that after a few years, often after five or ten years, they are put aside and that it is equally easy for a new college or in a new composition to overcome them. So how is it possible to maintain such a governance agreement? By whom can it be maintained and invoked? I am still waiting for the Minister's proposal to reorganise the Republic of Amsterdam which she once wanted to have independent. I still missed it in this proposal. Finally, the Netherlands has large and small municipalities. The problem is that we are now only seeing a course towards large municipalities. I myself had the pleasure of being born in the smallest municipality of Brabant, the municipality of Westerhoven. With 1,700 inhabitants, that was a well-functioning municipality. It also had to be reorganised 29 years ago. The first thing that happened was to build a large new town hall in the new municipality of Bergeijk. This resulted in additional costs being incurred in one blow. There were several old town halls empty. We are now twenty years away and there is another reclassification debate about the municipality of Bergeijk and all the other municipalities in Zuidoost-Brabant, with which new town halls are left empty and new town halls have to be built. Additional costs must be incurred. That's typical of the constant urge for municipal reclassifications. It's not gonna make any sense. I mentioned the municipalities in Zuidoost-Brabant, but this also applies very specifically to the new municipality of Altena in Brabant, where the Rabobank building is bought and converted for 14 million to become a new town hall. I mentioned it in the first term. In one blow, all savings will be cancelled. We simply need to stop such pointless exercises of scaling up, scaling up and unrecognizability. We must keep the municipality so close to the citizens so that they can decide on their own city council as close to home as possible. No municipalities where people sit 20 kilometers from one village or the other. In my own municipality's Hertogenbosch is the distance from Bokhoven to Vinkel, two cores in one municipality, 23 kilometers. Then we're just talking about small provinces these days. It's not really about anything anymore. So keep it small. There is nothing large-scale for our citizens. Listen to the citizens through local referendums. Only after a local referendum in which all the citizens of all the municipalities concerned have expressed a positive opinion will the PVV agree to municipal reclassification. That is why we will not be able to support all the proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u103	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u104	Mr. Chairman. A great deal has already been discussed in the first period due to inter-ruptions and now also in the second period. The Minister has answered a great deal, and there has been a response to it here and there. I will not go into all these points anymore. I note, however, that there is a difference in approach between the Minister and me, in the sense that I tend to place a little more emphasis on the aspect of acceptance. That is not the only thing; of course there are more aspects that can also be considered. But acceptance is the most important thing for me. And that can also be done at this time, because the Minister also noted that in many cases municipalities themselves come to the conclusion that it is better to strive for economies of scale, in view of all the new tasks that exist and which force an approach on a larger scale. The basis of support is already present in many cases by nature. Why shouldn't we rely a little more on that? The vast majority of the proposals under discussion are examples of this. They're coming from the bottom and there's support for it. So you don't have to talk about that at all. There are a few proposals that were still a small one. I call Haarlemmerliede, Spaarnwoude and Haarlemmermeer. I assume that Spaarndam will soon find a solution. At least that's what they're looking at. At Giessenlanden and Molenwaard the position of Arkel plays. The Minister did not really mention that anymore in replying to the motion calling for a review of Gorkum's position. Her answer didn't mention Arkel anymore. I hope this will be dealt with in the investigation that is about to begin. But in itself this omission is no reason to stop the merger of Giessenlanden and Molenwaard. There's too much to argue for. The Hoeksche Waard is a clear example of where I would like to make the aspect of support heavier than the Minister does. I am not very content with it and will vote against it. Then the merger of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer. The Minister argues there for the greater good. I can understand that, because in many cases, of course, the interest plays a greater role. The special thing is that Haren's reaction is not based on that aspect at all. Haren's response is based on the reclassification design and proposal. It does not deal with this aspect, or hardly does it. The reaction of Haren is determined by the course of the procedure, and the procedure was that the province originally explicitly referred to the starting point of acceptance as an exclusive starting point. At a later stage, in the open consultation of the province, it was again explicitly and explicitly stated that the end point of the open consultation could be two sides: it could lead to aggregation, it could lead to independence. According to the province, the municipality has the right to decide what is best for its inhabitants in the open consultation. On this basis, the reaction of the municipality has always been based. The municipality considered that it had all the possibilities to prove that it could remain independent. Despite the fact that she thought she had provided the evidence, the province still wanted to continue to merge. And that's unleashed all the emotion. So something in the procedure went wrong here. As a result, I would like to table a motion for a resolution. It's not supposed to be like this anymore. The procedure must have a certain consequence. You can't say "you can know it yourself" first and then come to the conclusion that that doesn't apply anymore. The procedure should also provide a justification consistent with reality. And that was not the case here either. The motivation was in the position of Haren. It was basically solved. In fact, the motivation seems to lie more in the environment or the position of Groningen. The procedures should be clear. However this case may be considered, the procedure has in any case gone a lot wrong. I would appreciate it if we could agree that these mistakes should be avoided in the future. The President shall: Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Köhler, Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Schalk and Mr Nagel proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the process of merging Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer has been very disappointing for many inhabitants and council members of the municipality of Haren;]] [[Whereas this was partly due to the fact that it was clearly given the impression that the municipality of Haren was free to make its own choice, and subsequently came back with a motivation and objective that many people felt was incorrect from the municipality of Haren;]] [[Whereas reclassification processes should be transparent, both in terms of the principles used and in terms of motivation and objective;]] [[calls on the Government to make an explicit assessment of future reclassification opinions as to whether the procedure followed has been sufficiently careful and whether the concrete reasons and objectives of a reclassification decision have sufficient justification to justify them in a situation where there is a lack of support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34805-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u107	Mr. Chairman. For those parties, ministers who had to swallow a melon at the dividend tax and for whom the abolition of the referendum must have been the main dish, the inclusion of Haren is, of course, a tasty dessert. It has been pointed out that 75% of the inhabitants of Haren are opposed to the merger with Groningen, but the Minister says very nicely that there are different ways to measure acceptance. If you want to measure the support of this cabinet, don't you see what the students, the elderly organisations and social partners think? Then the government says: we have a majority of one seat and that counts, period. And really, the minister has to believe that if 75% of the population is against, anyone with a common sense will say: there is no basis for support. Finally. When the referendum was abolished, the main argument was that people should not be so disappointed by what would happen to the result. If there's one group really disappointed now, that's the group in Haren. If the Minister agrees, is it not consistent to relieve the people of their disappointment by also abolishing the local referendums? We hope that on this black day for Haren the Minister chooses to be inconsistent. For the rest, in the municipal elections of 21 November in Groningen, together with the minister, we will pay particular attention to the submunicipalities and the results in Haren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u108	Thank you, Mr. Nagel. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her answers. They were clear and showed enthusiasm for our local democracy, as well as ambition. That's how we like a minister. The representative democracy begins locally. This Minister has made a clear statement on this, and it is also giving an important mandate. Do residents recognize themselves in their counsel? Are pupils who first get to know local democracy there lit with the fire, which is important to continue to be a citizen and participate, wherever they can? There are vulnerabilities and that is what we have been talking about: the turnout rates, the reflection of the city council. Mr. Chairman. There is a state committee that sees the future of the parliamentary system, but Thorbecke's house really has more floors. I really ask the Minister not only to make plans on this issue but also to reflect on those points where the State Commission will lend itself a little less, because it has actually been set on a different mission. We can't take that off too easily with plans alone. I would like to ask the Minister: do what is done with the recognition of municipal councils for residents. Yeah, I get her point. I was on the council of Utrecht myself. That is an identity of all Utrechters, even though there are only 45 council members for those many. A large municipality with many cores has to do with other issues and that depends on the distance and the close reflection. I hope that the Minister will stick the spade of analysis deeper, to sum it up. Then the twelve reclassifications. Mr President, do not be afraid: I am not going to end them all. But I do want to talk about Groningen, Haren, Ten Boer. It lacks support, and this really puts emphasis on the other elements in the policy framework and the procedure carried out by the province, as my group has already said. The position of Tynaarlo was also a matter of consideration for us. The Minister said that Haren did not indicate at the right time that they wanted to join Tynaarlo, so the province did not investigate this during the open consultation. Somewhere that is also the tragedy, that at a different time lay other solutions that did not fit in the process. But it has been a clear answer from the Minister. She has also clearly denied that there has been or has been a deal on the merger of Haren and we appreciate that clarity. Then this Chamber will be at the end of a long trial. There are no changes in the previous process that we can still convert here and so there are two tastes for: accept or reject. My group must say, all things considered, that the procedural requirements have been met. That means that we will agree. However, that does not yet create that there is support and that hurts. This will require a great deal from the new municipal administration in the future and from the current authorities that are preparing this to come together. I wish them wisdom, courage and yet a piece of unity. I hope that will grow. Then the City of Five Lords Lands. I have indicated that I find it complicated that it is actually not in the policy framework at the moment, but the Minister has made good commitments. She will involve the report of the Jansen Commission and inform this Chamber about both the policy framework and any necessary adjustments to the ARHI Act. I look forward to her advising this Chamber on this, and I hope it will be soon, so that we do not have any reclassifications on county borders until this has been adapted. Mr. Chairman. My group has had sufficient answers on the other points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u110	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Bikker has mowed the grass at my feet a little bit, because I also wanted to say something about the identity of Utrecht and Utrechters. I haven't been on the council, but I've been there a lot. This led me to conclude that the size of a municipality is not the only criterion on which identity is felt, experienced and created. In the beautiful municipality of Utrecht, where I live, people feel from neighborhood to district Utrechters and that is actually what you would like in larger municipalities. Whether we like it or not, the region is the scale on which many social services take place today. This is not only done by co-operative municipalities, but also by housing corporations, health institutions, education and much more. It is important for both the municipality and the client as well as for the municipality as the performer that there is sufficient level of scale to be able to go along with regionalisation in this social development. That does not always have to be done by merger, but it is also not the case that that merger should stand in the way. In this sense, we find that this social development is growing towards a scale that was a more passable path than it was in the past. Administrative considerations and support are particularly at odds with each other in the merger of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer. That is the municipal reclassification that my group, too, is most concerned about and has given the most detailed thought to. Eventually considering everything and hearing the Minister's answers, for which we thank him, we think it is right that this merger should take place, because otherwise too much isolation from the smaller town of Haren would arise in a larger administrative unit around it, and that seems undesirable in the longer term. We also had a number of questions about a few specific situations, which I will not all look into anymore. As far as my group is concerned, they have been satisfactorily answered by the Minister. This means that we will support the reclassification proposals as they are. I would add one more thing, and that is that the point of acceptance is indeed what we asked for yesterday, and the Minister has also reflected on this issue that should become more explicit in future procedures. In particular, the way in which this is justified and made clear how this support has been achieved, what elements have been involved and what steps have been taken in this regard, we consider an important point to be given to the Minister, including for the future. That is why we will support Mr Ten Hoeve's motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u112	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. Could you please go back, because Mr Van Hattem has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u113	I hear Mr Lintmeijer say that the careful procedure must be followed with regard to acceptance. But if I look at the motion he has tabled, I can see that in the event of a lack of support, if the procedure is careful, the reclassification should be supported, if I read the operative part correctly. Then how do you look at that? Is the basis of support suddenly no longer important, as long as the procedure is careful enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u114	I think I've been trying to say something else. I have said that I think it is important that it is transparent how support has been worked on. As far as I am concerned, support has become a little too much of a container concept. The support of municipal councils that are for something is not the same as the support of individual residents who can each make their own consideration of it. I want to be able to see more transparent in the future how that support has been achieved and what forms of support we are talking about. Then it may still be the case that you say in your administrative balance or in your final overall balance: the other arguments weigh just as heavy or weigh a little heavier, which makes us agree with something. But I want to be able to see that more, with an unkind word, protocoled, so that we can all see with each other clearly how the considerations have been made, including those of acceptance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u115	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u116	Mr Lintmeijer now says that we must work towards acceptance. But as I said later, either there is support or there isn't. You determine if something is being worn. Working towards acceptance is something that should be separate from that, that is a certain process that one enters into if one wants to achieve something. When are we going to achieve something? If there's support for it. Then you say that you can support it if it is transparent, so as long as there is a transparent process. Yes, that's all nice and nice, but transparency is a basic condition that must always be met in public administration. If there isn't, you shouldn't want to go into such a process at all. So what does your story add to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u117	Sometimes you have to be able to lift to carry something. Portrait is not something that is static, you also need to be able to take steps to achieve mutual acceptance. You can talk to people and administrators, you can let people talk to each other, and then you can see what results that leads to. That may be support, but it doesn't always have to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u118	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mrs Huijbregts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u119	Mr. Chairman. Shortly, I'd like to use my second term. Firstly, to thank the Minister for her clear response. Secondly, to reflect further on two legislative proposals. Zederik, Leerdam and Vianen are starting their marriage as Five Lord countries. I hope I'm saying it right, Mr. Van Hattem, with an uncertain start. The prenup has to be negotiated even further, when there will be no turning back after decision-making. The engagement can no longer be broken. Unbundling is a more complex process than unbundling. Brexit will prove that again. The Minister's promise that those who remain behind should not be harmed only reassures us in part, because all the effects, but above all those for the longer term, cannot yet be made concrete. What does the Minister mean by "no harm"? It also refers to direct costs in this context. But I was also talking about the expected higher contribution of those who are left behind in the disappearance of two partners. Is compensation agreed for this? The last remaining question with regard to this proposal is: the negative effects will therefore have to be addressed and settled by the parties represented in the advisory committee. But what is the Minister's approach to the role of the Empire if the other parties fail to reach agreement? With regard to the merger of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer, I repeat what I brought in on behalf of my group yesterday and what was also recalled by the Minister. The basis for sustainable autonomy of the municipality of Haren is extremely fragile in view of the administrative task, the complexity of its position in the urban and renewed regional network. The Minister has strengthened us further in this view. The VVD will therefore support the government's proposal to create a new municipality in Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer. Mr. Chairman. The nature of the Minister's response in terms of the VVD tastes like more. We look forward to the proposals and the debate on the renewal of local democracy. Last night's debate and tonight's debate underline the need to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u120	Thank you, Mrs Huijbregts. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Let me be clear about nine of the twelve legislative proposals: we are going to support them. I have a few comments to make on three legislative proposals. With the bill on the Hoeksche Waard (34806) and the bill on Haren, Groningen and Ten Boer (34805) I still have a few points. With regard to the Hoeksche Waard, the Minister has indicated that cooperation is very important, that it should actually be voluntary, that the basis would be greater and that it would therefore be more in the direction of a reclassification. But if three municipalities say no and two say yes, if 70% of the population does not, then that remains very problematic for my group, although there are indeed a number of other institutions which tend to tend towards a redecentralized municipality as the Minister has indicated. The same applies to the position around Haren. The Minister has indicated that she understands that it has been turbulent. She has carefully, cautiously indicated that she has some feeling about it, but then we will get back to a new policy framework very quickly. So we need to learn from this process for a new policy framework, and that means, above all, for the future. That is why I supported Mr Ten Hoeve's motion, because I do not think we should have it in this way in the future. The core of what is needed there is trust. In any case, whether or not it should be classified. At the moment, that trust is a long way from being needed. I think the Minister is giving good directions. In response to the question I raised in one of the interruptions, she said that the cores should be kept intact, that they should also be able to preserve their own identity and that the level of provision and so on should be maintained. The Minister could very well wish for that, and she may be able to make good comments, but she cannot force it. So that really has to happen there. The question is whether the basis for this is right. The third proposal concerns five lord countries. In the case of interruption, too, I have already indicated that there is some difference in the wording of the advisory committee and that of the minister in the note of 6 July. My question is actually very specific: does the Minister want to say that by its wording she means the same thing as the advisory committee, so that there is clarity about it and we know that the wording of the advisory committee can be used? If I get a positive answer to that, it will make it much easier to start providing support for five lord countries. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister very much for the very detailed way in which he has responded. It was so extensive that Mr Van Dieren also came back to her answer, the small suffering I mentioned yesterday. I also liked that, although she indicated that it could not be done, she nevertheless came up with a legally effective solution, which will, however, prove to be practically ineffective. However, thanks for the effort and thanks for this opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u122	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u123	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the Minister for the clear answer. As far as my group is concerned, it was mainly a question of whether the process concerning the Groningen, Ten Boer, Haren file was properly and carefully conducted, i.e. in accordance with the policy framework and the ARHI law. As far as we are concerned, I note that the Minister has sufficiently removed the doubt that existed on this point. Mr. Chairman. As I said last night, my group will accept the proposals on the basis of the principles I outlined in detail yesterday. Then I'll come to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u124	Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u125	I hear Mr Engels of D66 saying that it has all gone through carefully, but I would like to read a tweet of D66 Haren, just for a bit of imaging. They literally say: "Very special: Kajsa Ollongren finds that Groningen province acted carefully because the reaction note to the reclassification recommendation stated that all views had been carefully answered. And who wrote that reaction note? Right: Province of Groningen! We of toilet duck!" What does Mr Engels think of the fact that his own party mates in Haren draw such a firm conclusion about the care of handling the reaction note?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u126	I've known for a long time what my partymates in Haren think of things. If you're trying to provoke me to make a judgment on that, I won't do it. I don't think that belongs in this room at all. Each has its own responsibility. My party mates in Haren have their responsibility at local level, my party mates in Groningen and Ten Boer also have them, my party mates in the Provincial States have their responsibility, my party mates in the Lower House have them and even here we do not shy away from our responsibilities. But make yourself happy about the tweet, because I really do give you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u127	Mr. Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u128	I am not happy about it, because it is serious enough that the independence of Haren is so easily pushed aside by you. You're not going to answer my question. It is about the care of the response note. The most directly involved, the council members in Haren, find that and say: the reaction of the province of Groningen is judged by the province of Groningen; we of toilet duck. That reaction is taken over by the Minister again without a hitch. Do you now consider that to be a witness of care, or is that just a very one-sided view of what is ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u129	I believe that Mr Van Hattem is entitled to his own analysis and his opinion, but I have established with the Minister that this is a careful and legitimate procedure. I think that's clear enough. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motion. It suddenly came in for a while, so I think we should say something about that because we need to come to a conclusion tonight. My group will not support this motion, just because it would mean that you are saying that the procedure in Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer would not have been lawful. That is not the opinion of my group. I do think I understand Mr Ten Hoeve's background... That's where he's coming in, so I'm gonna hold off on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u130	I do not think that the conclusion can be drawn that the procedure has not been lawful, because he probably has been, but he has not been good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u131	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u132	He hasn't been entirely honest with the municipalities. That does not affect legality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u133	That only strengthens my opinion that my group will not support the motion even more for that reason, because there are differences of opinion. What I wanted to add, by the way, is that I do understand the background and context in which Mr Ten Hoeve comes up with that motion. That gives me reason to note the following, also in the direction of the Minister. I think it would be good, not only in this case, but also in previous cases, to realise that if the policy framework is revised, there will certainly be a great deal of misunderstandings in terms of political and social acceptance. In addition, all kinds of words play a role that is not included in the policy framework and in the law, for example the word "from the bottom." I think it would be good, also to understand citizens involved in a reclassification, to better understand what is meant by "support" and what role they have in reclassification processes. I would very much like to call on the Minister to adapt this to the new policy framework, just because it turns out in practice that this leads to misunderstandings. I conclude, Mr President, by thanking the Minister for the firm and important commitment that she would like to take a look at whether the ARHI Act is still fully up-to-date on a number of points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u134	Thank you, Mr. English. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u135	I thank the Minister for her answer, but she has not convinced us. I would like to make a few brief comments on a number of municipal merger proposals. First of all the merging of Haarlemmerliede and Spaarnwoude with Haarlemmermeer. The House of Representatives has adopted the motion for a resolution by Mr Van den Bosch, the Minister has also mentioned the possibility of a border correction after the merger has been completed and a good and open consultation on this matter between the villagers, the province and the municipalities concerned. I would like to ask the Minister once again explicitly whether she would like to encourage this really to be an open consultation, and that is not one of the partners, for example the municipality of Haarlemmermeer, that consults with the view that border corrections are in any case excluded in advance. Because then it wouldn't make any sense anymore. I'd like a clear commitment from the Minister. Then there is the merger of Giessenlanden and Molenwaard to Molenlanden. It is terrible, but it is indeed full of mills, so it does apply in that respect. Does the Minister also want to introduce the possibility of a border correction, but at Arkel and Schelluinen, into the consultation that takes place between Gorinchem and the surrounding municipalities about the centre municipality of Gorinchem? I'd like a clear answer. Then there are some comments about Haren. The discussion continues, but I do not have the impression that it all leads to very much clarity. Now the Minister said that a careful and transparent process had taken place. That is, of course, a value judgment, and it is difficult to argue about value judgments. However, I note that at least in the interim, the province said to the municipality of Haren that it could continue as an independent municipality if it could solve its problems independently, and that at a later stage of the process there was no longer any question of this, because the province's opinion at that time was that, given its size, the municipality of Haren would, for various reasons, have insufficient administrative power. In any case, this is not very careful towards the municipality of Haren and its inhabitants. That is why I have also co-signed Mr Ten Hoeve's motion. My second comment is that, as far as I am concerned, it is not just a question of 'feelings of discontent' from Haren, I quote the Minister who wants to take them into account or understands them. It's not so much about feelings of discontent. There are just a lot of well-founded arguments why the vast majority of people in Haren are against that merger. Of course, you may disagree with those arguments, but you should not dismiss them as "feelings." Mr. Chairman. My third comment on Haren is that the conclusion that Haren can put too little weight on cooperation is not reflected in any evaluation of these partnerships. For example, it does not appear as such from the report of the Visitation Commission, to which the Minister referred. My fourth point is that the Minister has not really made up for the fragile financial position and the fragile administrative power. She has said: yes, that is generally the case with such a municipality, and we are not sure whether that will go well in the future. But not sure that it will continue to go well is not enough argument to rearrange a municipality against its own will? Then there is the Minister's comment that the level of provision and service provision in Haren will remain at least at the same level. I doubt that. The level of provision and service in Haren is now above average. This is evident from several studies and also from a number of customer satisfaction surveys in the municipality of Haren. If you then merge it with other municipalities, where it is not above average good, then I think it can at most stay at the same level and that it will still have the tendency to go to the average. It is not clear to me why this should be maintained, either way or in the long term. All in all, my conclusion about the abolition of the Haren municipality is that the province and the minister say to Haren: you do not feel it, but you are chronically ill, and that is why it is better that we put you out of your misery. The SP Group will not follow the Minister in this regard. Finally, a comment on the Hoeksche Waard. Despite all the addition and subtraction of the Minister, I note that three of the five municipalities are opposed to the merger and that, to the extent requested, 70% of the population is opposed to the merger and that the tasks of the partnerships in general are now well carried out, but that there is only discontent about the governance of the partnerships. And I note that the five municipalities have not asked the province to cut the knot, if there is one. My conclusion is that the choice for the merger is contrary to the wishes of the majority of those involved and is not necessary for the proper performance of the task by the municipality. The choice is therefore totally insufficiently motivated. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u136	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. She can answer right away. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is very fitting in this house and at least to my great pleasure that Thorbecke's name has been often mentioned today and yesterday. Tonight was also, to my great pleasure, the name of W.F. Hermans added. When I think about what he would have said about this, I think he would probably have said something like: in the house of Thorbecke we can never sleep again. I'd like to compliment you on that. I would like to say to Mrs Bikker that everything I have heard actually motivates me even more to work on this solid, good and responsive local government, because it is ultimately about people and we are all responsible for giving those people the space to take that responsibility, to ensure that proximity to the citizen and for the involvement in what is happening in their congregation and to be very approachable to the inhabitants of their congregation. The same applies to these new municipalities that are emerging here, which people can always expect their directors to be aware of. The drivers are there for their inhabitants and not the other way around. I also maintain that this scaling-up really offers opportunities and that within the larger scale that is indeed the result of the reclassification, there will and should remain room for small scale, for neighbourhood-oriented approaches, for village and core policies and for own ways of civic participation and involvement of people in their governance at local level. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked. Mr Van Hattem referred to a number of questions which he had also asked in the first term and which, in his opinion, had not yet been sufficiently answered. For example, he asked about the measurability of the effects of reclassifications. The objectives of the reclassifications are quite different on a case-by-case basis. This is also due to the fact that the social challenges can vary greatly from one region to another, but the basic issue is, of course, the municipal organisation, which must be professional enough, the service provided and the realisation of certain ambitions, which can be very concrete: in housing or in economic or social development. It is therefore a question of space for local conditions and specific situations. They make it difficult to use an objective set of characteristics in general to formulate exactly what it should be. So I do not think it would be good to say that we should have very general indicators that are the same for everyone. But I do think it is right that it should also be assessed locally, that, of course, the expectations are met at local level or in the newly formed municipality, or that the reclassifications lead to what was expected of it. I think it's best if this happens locally. We can use a kind of general principle, but it is best to leave it to the municipalities to assess whether what they want to achieve specifically for their region and the municipality has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u138	Mr. Van Hattem, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u139	Yes, Mr. Chairman, very briefly. The point is that most of the municipalities which have so far had a reclassification do not, or hardly, carry out such evaluations. So it's just really hard to establish. However, apart from all those local factors that can count, there can indeed be a lot of them. I would like to focus on one factor that is always mentioned in the policy framework as one of the most important. That's administrative power. Governance is such a general concept. Can the Minister at least be more specific about this? How can administrative strength be measured and assessed? Because in dealing with that there really is a black box, as far as I'm concerned, while it is the most serious argument that comes with reclassifications.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u140	For me, administrative power is about whether a municipality is able to achieve the service that is needed in a good way. By this I mean what the inhabitants can expect from their municipality, the tasks and responsibilities that municipalities have and the services they have to provide to their inhabitants. In addition, they must also be able to realise strategic ambitions that are important and that take time. I just mentioned housing, but there are, of course, more of those strategic ambitions, such as economic development and structural strengthening. That's administrative power for me. Mr Van Hattem also asked about the European Charter. The European Charter on Local Autonomy does not require a referendum. This has also been confirmed in several judgments. So you cannot read this absolutely in the European Charter. Mr Van Hattem also asked about the administrative agreement in the municipalities of Groningen, Ten Boer and Haren. The administrative agreement concerns plans for the newly formed municipality of Groningen. In doing so, it is the relief to the concerns that have indeed been expressed, including by residents of Haren, about matters such as administrative proximity, the provision of services, the level of facilities and the spatial development of the new municipality. The final decision is up to the board of the new municipality. I fully assume that this agreement will form the basis for the new Council to define the new situation with each other. I think I have answered Mr Van Hattem's questions with this. Mr Ten Hoeve of the Independent Senate Group spoke about acceptance. He said that people should be able to rely on certain procedures. I agree with him on that. I will be speaking about the motion later, but I agree with the idea that acceptance is important, that it is something that you have to work on and that ultimately has to be taken into account. I'll be back on the motion later. Mrs Bikker looks forward to a further reflection. I assume she doesn't mean to give me another reflection on the local government tonight. I would, of course, like to do that, and Mrs Bikker would like to do that, but I can imagine that other people, including the President, would like to see it a little less. But I look forward to working on this and to discussing it further in this Chamber. She also referred to the Jansen report. I have already made a commitment on this in relation to the new policy framework. I made that commitment to Mr Engels of D66. I would also like to thank her for her encouraging words. Mr Lintmeijer pointed out the difference between municipalities. I was glad that I had at least one supporter on that point. Indeed, a large municipality can have its own identity. We, as Utrechtenaar and Amsterdammer, have experienced this in any case. I'll be on the motion he made a statement about. Mrs Huijbregts had another question about the costs of exit, the unbundling. If you find the unbundling of a partnership complicated, the Brexit has an additional difficulty, because this is also quite complex. I totally agree with Mrs Huijbregts. What we have done in this particular case, also thanks to the work of the advisory committee, is indeed to say that the costs that can be broken down, settled, brought into view and settled in a proper manner. It's about direct, real costs. Of course there is more to be said about this, because you can also look at the contributions that came from the municipalities in the first place. Those contributions may differ. Sometimes you have net contributors and other profit in the financial sense actually a little more from such a partnership. It's not always all fairly divided in the financial sense. All this needs to be involved in the set-off. This will have to be further developed in the coming months. Then I'll be with Mr Schalk. I had indeed told him that I would return to the question of the wording in the second term. I want to reconfirm what I said in the first term. There's no difference. In both the wordings, Mr Schalk's quote and the explanation I gave to it, there is no difference as regards the owners, i.e. the participants in the partnerships. For example, you have outgoing participants such as Leerdam, Vianen and Zederik. And you also have remaining contestants. We have given exactly the same explanation in different wordings. So I can confirm that. Mr Schalk specifically asked for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u141	Mr. Schalk, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u142	Exactly, Madam President. It was not about Mr Schalk's wording but about the wording of the advisory committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u143	Excuse me. You quoted the guidance committee, I thought, and what I said was exactly the same as what the guidance committee said. Mr Engels referred to my commitment on the ARHI Act to involve the ARHI Act from the new policy framework, which will, of course, form part of that clarification. I'll repeat that here. I did not convince Mr Köhler. I don't think I'm gonna be able to do that in this term either. Nevertheless, of course, I am going to answer his questions. The motion that sees on the agreements between Haarlem and Haarlemmermeer will be carried out. That will just happen in a neat way with the involvement of all parties. "Milllands" I actually think is a nice name, but well, tastes differ. I have said that the motion on the role of the centre municipality, Gorinchem, will be carried out. It is about all the surrounding and affected municipalities, including Arkel, but I do not want to prelude in advance what Mr Köhler is referring to, namely a border correction. I will proceed with the motion. Open consultations should always be open, but the parties will enter into open consultations with a view. Actually, that makes sense to me. When it comes to Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer, Mr Köhler said that emotions and arguments are not the same. I totally agree with him. There are supporters and opponents. There are arguments and facts. There are views and visions. And there are emotions, too. All of this plays a part in this together, but I do not want to detract at all from the fact that there are, of course, arguments and arguments. I had not heard a question from Mr Köhler about the Hoeksche Waard. Finally, I only have the motion of the Member Ten Hoeve under letter E. It has also been signed by a number of others, including Mr Lintmeijer. He called the motion a support in the back. There are elements in the motion that I say: I actually think so too. The reclassification process must, of course, be transparent. The motivation is important et cetera. I think that we should always check whether the procedure has been followed carefully, and that is what is happening. I also see this as a task for the new policy framework for reclassifications. Nevertheless, I would like to advise against the motion, because the motion is based on an assumption that this is the case, and this is particularly apparent from the second recital.... that matters have not gone as they should have gone in that process. I think it is important that I, as a minister, should be able to say, and have also carried out the test, that it was properly done in accordance with the current policy framework and the ARHI Act. I have come to the conclusion that this has happened. In view of the fact that this motion seems to call that into question, I must discourage the motion. Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u144	Mr. Ten Hoeve, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u145	In essence, the same reaction will be made to Mr Engels. The motion does not express any opposition to the principles of the ARHI Act, nor does it express the fact that there have been unlawful acts, but the motion does express the feeling that in Haren there has been unfair treatment, in view of the statements made by the Province and how it subsequently acted. That is something that should not be avoided in a careful procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u146	I agree with Mr Ten Hoeve: a careful procedure must always be used. However, I believe that I should also be able to say whether the test on the policy framework and the law means that this has also been done to a sufficient extent in this case. I think so. I think you can find it looking back at all of it, but eventually that's the touchstone we have now. There is something here about an impression that has been given, but I think the province has always said that there was a possibility that the province would take this action. That was part of the trajectory. Once again, that impression in this part of the motion leads me to conclude that I cannot embrace the motion as such and I must dissuade it, although I would like to say that I do not think we have any difference of opinion on transparency and care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u147	Mr. Lintmeijer, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u148	I understand that the Minister sees some of the things that she says she doesn't want to take care of. As far as my group is concerned, the purpose of the motion is that in the new policy framework, which you are going to update, a number of elements of this transparency, those possibilities of consideration, the basis of support and the way in which it has been achieved, are being made more effective than in the current one. If you say that you can make a commitment in this direction, I am also satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u149	Then I think I can satisfy Mr Lintmeijer, because the new policy framework is indeed coming. I have already said in the debate on a number of points that I would also like to see these elements reflected in that policy framework. I'm on it. It is not a policy framework that is written here in the tower of BZK, but it is established in consultation with VNG, IPO and the municipalities and provinces that have themselves experienced how such a reclassification takes place. As far as I am concerned, these elements certainly come back to that policy framework. That is actually a commitment I have already made at the request of Mrs Bikker and Mr Engels. I would also like to do so in the direction of Mr Lintmeijer. The issue and the definition of what is actually acceptable must also, of course, be part of this new policy framework. Perhaps I can reassure Mr Lintmeijer on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u150	Mr. Ten Hoeve, one more interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u151	The reason for the motion is indeed in the recitals, and this is indeed a reason to be found in Haren. The reason is, however, that the debate has shown quite clearly a number of times that the province has said quite explicitly: we will not enter into mergers where there is no basis. The province has said very explicitly: the municipality itself has the possibility to weigh what is most important or best for its inhabitants. That kind of categorical statement and coming back to it later is a careless procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u152	Mr Ten Hoeve makes it even more clear than the motion states that he weighs it very heavily. I said I understand the position of Haren. I also understand the concerns expressed by residents, and also about the process. On the other hand, however, I would argue that the province has done what we ask of provinces, which take their responsibility. In any case, whatever expectation has been created, the province has never said that it could not take this next step. We may regret that there were different expectations over and over again, but I think that the province has taken administrative responsibility by taking this step. And I'm sticking to my judgment on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-17.u154	I have come to deal with the legislative proposals. I'll do that by bill. The legislative proposal 34805, the merger of the municipalities of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer, has already been asked for a roll-call vote. The vote on this and the motion will take place at the end of the evening after we have received a package with everything in it. Then bill 34806, the merger of the municipalities of Binnenmaas, Cromstrijen, Korendijk, Oud-Beijerland and Strijen. Does anyone want a vote on that? That's the case. Then we'll be voting on this bill as well. Then bill 34824, the merger of the municipalities of Leerdam, Vianen and Zederik and modification of the border between the provinces of Utrecht and Zuid-Holland. Does anyone want a vote on that? That's the case. Then that will be on the agenda in a moment. Then bill 34825, the merger of the municipalities of Aalburg, Werkendam and Woudrichem. Does anyone want a vote on that? That's the case. The vote will take place shortly. Then bill 34826, the merger of the municipalities of Nuth, Underbanks and Schinnen. Does anyone want a vote on that? I can see your finger going up again, Mr. Van Hattem. Then we shall vote on that in a moment. Then bill 34827, the merger of the municipalities of Haarlemmerliede and Spaarnwoude and Haarlemmermeer. Yeah, we're gonna have a vote on that, too. Then bill 34828, the merger of the municipalities of Bedum, De Marne, Eemsmond and Winsum. Yes, that will be voted on shortly. Then bill 34829, the merger of the municipalities of Grootegast, Leek, Marum and Zuidhorn and part of the territory of the municipality of Winsum. The vote will take place shortly. Then bill 34830, the merger of the municipalities of Giessenlanden and Molenwaard. For a moment, I thought you didn't raise your finger, Mr. Van Hattem, but you did. Okay, we'll vote on that, too. Then bill 34831, the merger of the municipalities of Dongeradeel, Ferwerderadiel and Kollumerland and Nieuwkruisland. Yes, that will be voted on shortly. Then bill 34832, the merger of the municipalities of Noordwijk and Noordwijkerhout. Yeah, here we go. The vote will take place shortly. Then we have one more, Mr. Van Hattem: 34833, the merger of the municipalities of Geldermalsen, Lingewaal and Neerijnen. The vote will take place shortly. I'll suspend the meeting for about ten minutes. You will then receive a list of legislative proposals that can still be dismissed as hammer pieces and a voting list on which the legislative proposals on which... May I have your attention, please? The legislative proposals that still have to be voted on, plus the motion to be voted on. It's great that no one moves anymore. Very good. Now you can walk.
