ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on care for confused persons. I warmly welcome the Minister of Justice and Security and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport, as well as the Members, the people in the public gallery, the support and the people who are following this debate elsewhere. I would like to suggest that, in the first instance, there should be no more than three interruptions, and I know that it may be a serious debate, but I would ask you to keep it short. If you don't, I'm gonna have to tighten up a little bit. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The increase in vulnerable persons who exhibit temporarily confused behaviour is a major concern for many people in our society. It is a concern for the people themselves, but also in their immediate surroundings, such as family and neighbors, it leads to care. In extreme cases, it can even be dangerous. Unfortunately, police reports show that they are the same people, who are therefore not well-helped and have had to report it. Firstly, I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he agrees with GroenLinks that we should do as much as possible to prevent people from getting into crisis. Does this cabinet also look at underlying causes and whether we can prevent things from happening? Will that also be looked at in a cabinet-wide manner? I am thinking, for example, of a good income situation, adequate debt assistance and guidance to find a way in our complex society. Secondly, I would like to comment on the report of the Switch team. With the dismantling of one third of the beds in mental health care and the remaining care at home for people with mental problems, also called "ambulantisation," there is still plenty of work to be done. Only a quarter of the municipalities think they have a well-functioning approach for people with confused treaty on 1 October. That's unacceptable. What is the Secretary of State doing to ensure that all municipalities are ready on 1 October? Are there certain regions or municipalities where extra attention should be paid? In Friesland, only thirteen of the twenty municipalities answered the question of the Switch team. That's just not enough. Is the Secretary of State prepared to actively address the municipalities that have not replied? Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks also has a question about the hotline that many municipalities are working on. The chairman of the Switch Team suggested making a nationwide number that you can call when you see someone with confused behavior. You should then end up at a regional telephone exchange, where someone with knowledge can help deal with the situation. Because now people often call 911, but there are no people there with knowledge of mental health care. And regional numbers are often unknown. Does the Secretary of State want to set up such a national number with local expertise behind it? Mr. Chairman. Another point that concerns us is that the client perspective and the involvement of the environment and the family are not given sufficient attention. 21% of the municipalities do not involve the family. Client organisations and experience experts are also often not involved. Can the Secretary of State ask for extra attention to this in his consultation with municipalities? Mr. Chairman. Also the security care is not yet in order. The cabinet says they'll have a meeting next week. When can we expect the results of this consultation? The development of a field standard for secure care is delayed. That signal gets the Switch team and GroenLinks got it, too. What's the deal with that? Is it true there's been a delay? When will the field standard be ready? In addition, it is an important question whether people suffering from psychological problems and who may not yet be in crisis, but who are in acute need of help, can go somewhere. Does that field standard provide for that too? Too often we hear stories from people who have psychological problems and who know very well when things are going wrong. They then ask to be admitted in the short term and to receive appropriate help, even for one or two nights, to be out of their own environment for a while. But this help is not always offered. Caregivers sometimes need to call institution after institution to ensure that this assistance is provided, because then someone is not in crisis and there are not enough secure beds or funding. What is needed so that someone who feels a crisis can count on immediate help? Is that person supposed to fake a crisis? Mr. Chairman. A predecessor of the Secretary of State wrote in October on questions from GroenLinks that the Dutch Healthcare Authority would be on top of the agreements and would call institutions and providers to order if things went wrong. My question to the Secretary of State is how he's going to ensure that people who want voluntary admission get that recording, too. Should there be more beds? Do the agreements in this area meet at all and have the NZa institutions and health insurance companies spoken to this in recent months? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mr. Chairman. The police have sounded the alarm clock early this year. A record number of people in acute crisis were pulled off the streets by cops last year. Over 83.000 reports came in to them. In many cases, it's the same people that we have to catch several times. I must say that I find it particularly sad that it has to come to this more and more often. Apparently, in our society, we have lost sight of a group of vulnerable people, people who were initially still in the picture of the general practitioner, the district agent, social work or mental health care. But a build-up of measures has lost sight of these people. They won't be seen until it's actually too late. What does this say about prevention, preventing people from entering such a crisis? I'd like to get a reaction from the government. People who could first go to the homeless shelter are now wandering the streets because many municipalities have cut back on these places. People who first got into mental health care have no place there anymore. The previous cabinet decided to reduce the number of beds in psychiatry by one third, but care in the neighbourhood and care in people's homes is still barely off the ground. Does the Secretary of State agree with the SP that just very big mistakes have been made here? Shouldn't you just get home and neighborhood care in order before your care in institutions is reduced? Is the Secretary of State also prepared to stop the winding-down of beds as long as there are no alternatives? Our neighborhood agents have also been given more and more other tasks and are being removed from their own neighborhood. This means that society loses a few eyes and ears that are open to people in psychological distress. I'd like to get a response from the Minister on how he looks at this. At the same time, we also see that the waiting lists in the ggz are long. Recently, a friend of mine told me that a young mother who needed acute care could get close, but had to wait 50 days to do so. If this is about an acute situation, I wonder what we are doing. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Where does it go if we have made our system so complicated that these people are not seen in time? How is it that more and more people are getting an arrest team instead of a listening ear? How is it possible that there is EUR 300 million left over from the budget for the ggz, while institutions are already at their production ceiling of the health insurance company in October? Where's the money now? Is the Secretary of State going to make sure that this money is still going to be used to get rid of waiting lists? Mr. Chairman. I think we have all seen the talks that have recently been held on TV on this subject, such as Jeroen Pauw's broadcast. We in the SP think it is very important and very brave that people dare to take the step forward and tell about it on television. We can all end up in a situation of psychological distress. Of course we can have extensive discussions here about hunting teams, switching teams, consultation tables and flying brigades, but the question is, of course, where the root of the problem lies. At the heart of the problem is that we just don't see some vulnerable people anymore. We lost track of them. People can spin behind closed curtains because their illness no longer fits in a diagnosis-treatment combination, a dbc. In the improved care no one seems to feel responsible for a person, because you have to take care of every different part of care at another instance. A part of the neighborhood work that was once done has been cut off in so many places that we lose sight of people in need. If that is the case, and I think it is, I am very curious how the government intends to deal with it. I am also very curious to know how she is going to ensure that we are not only going to talk about money and the system here, but above all about how we are going to make these people visible and accessible again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs Dijksma of the Labour Party would now have the floor, but she is absent. We'll see if she comes later. But as long as she is not here, we will continue with the other speakers and I shall first give the floor to Mrs Sazias of 50PLUS. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Over the past year, there has been another record number of incidents involving confused persons registered by the police. There were as many as 83,500 reports. The report of the Switch team shows that there were 80,000 reports in 2016 and 13,000 people caused the most reports, sometimes several times a day. Can the Secretary of State indicate how to make it clear what is going on with this group of people? Only then will we know what care and help these people need. At the same time, the umbrella organisation Zorgverzekerings Nederland concludes that the cuts in the ggz did not lead to an increasing nuisance of confused persons. Well! They base this on the number of declarations submitted to them and the fact that the ggz crisis service had to take less action in the past year than the year before. So they're actually saying they don't come into our house, so they're not there either. That seems to us to be a crooked argument, because in practice you hear stories from people who end up in other agencies, such as homeless care and addiction care, who actually belong to the ggz. But there won't be a place for them. In addition, the waiting lists are still far too long. We hear more and more poignant stories about that. Especially when it comes to an acute crisis, there can never be a waiting list. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Most municipalities in the survey conducted by the Switch team indicate that they are well on the way with policies for helping confused people, but they also indicate that they are concerned about what will happen after 1 October, when the Switch team stops and everything needs to be ready. Remarkable is the difference in the experience of the municipalities, which say that it is moving in the right direction and of the clients and their environment. They are much less positive. Can the Secretary of State reflect on that? The municipalities are concerned about a number of things, for example the availability of appropriate care, but also the legislation on privacy that determines the sharing of information. For example, you can experience that someone in one municipality is known as someone with mental problems, but not at all in another municipality. That is also a problem for municipalities. They are also concerned about the disappearance of subsidies for the initiatives launched for a well-functioning approach; concrete issues for the State Secretary to address. We must, of course, help the municipalities with their policies. How's the Secretary of State gonna handle this? The need and necessity of the Switch team are still too great. Therefore, it does not seem to be a good idea for 50PLUS to end this after 1 October. It would also be strange to remove it now, as the number of notifications continues to increase. Can the Secretary of State promise that the Switch team will remain for a while? Among other things, the team advocates affordable places for supervised and protected living. 50PLUS has mentioned in previous debates that the phasing out of protected housing has gone far too fast. The Secretary of State himself states that the outpatient care has not yet gotten off the ground. Does he agree with 50PLUS and the Switch team that there should be enough places to live protected? People with confused behavior often have multiple problems. There's got to be someone who's directing the switch team. How can we ensure that clear agreements are made and that they are secured so that people are not sent from the cabinet to the wall as we see with other target groups? Finally, there is the advice for more professionals in the district. 50PLUS fully agrees with that, but how are we going to deal with the large staff shortage? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u7	I thank you and give the floor to Mrs van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u8	Thank you, Mr President. On the day that Chief Constable Akerboom of the Dutch police called in December to have a psychiatric aid worker available in every neighborhood, there arose a noise in a large city. The emergency services spent hours pulling a confused man off the roof. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to my first point: the basis is not in order. In the debate on the budget, I said that care should be available, accessible and affordable. I would add a fourth b: the basis must be in order. The most important thing for the CDA is that there is good, accessible access to mental health care. Therefore, the basis of the ggz needs to be established. The CDA concludes from the answers to questions from my colleague Chris van Dam and me, and from the documents, that this is not the case now. In fact, the number of people with confused behaviour who urgently need help has even increased over the years. Does the Secretary of State share this conclusion? Then the Switch teams. People with confused behavior need the right help. It is important that aid knows these people and knows how to deal with a crisis or threatening crisis. The Switch team concluded last week that many municipalities indicate that they are far away with a final approach, but at the same time states that paper is patient. Does this mean that it is settled on paper, but not yet in practice? The 2015 Chasing Team had to ensure that everything was ready before the summer of 2016. The name of the team has changed to "Schakelteam," but two years after the deadline it is still not in order. That is more than worrying for the people with confused behavior, but also for their parents, family and children, and the emergency services that have to solve it. That brings me to the following point: the concern in the district is not in order. Trimbos' research shows that the care in the neighborhood is not in order. There was 288 million available to take an extra step, so that the outpatient ggz and waiting lists in the care would be put in order? We would like the Secretary of State to clarify what this is about and how much is still available in 2018 to make extra use of, so that the assistance in the neighbourhood gets in order. In the district, ggz expertise must be available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, accessible and preventive, otherwise the problems of people with confused behavior will continue to increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u9	I hear a compelling speech from the CDA. Critical. The basis is not in order, when it comes to caring for confused persons. But why is that, does the CDA think?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u10	One of the things, but we have already mentioned this in previous debates, is, of course, that the inpatient care has been reduced too quickly and the outpatient care has not been ready in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u11	That's easy. A third of the ggz sites where people can go temporarily if they cause a notification 275 times, for example, is gone. We have also seen the study showing that 13% of the people who are confused are demented. 80,000 nursing homes gone. Then it says CDA: yes, but this outpatient care isn't rigged fast enough. Those are orders of magnitude that don't rhyme with each other, aren't they? It's the order of magnitude of "I'll take a ten from you and I'll give you back a euro." Why don't the CDA just apologize for closing all those nursing homes for once, for closing all those ggz spots? Because this drama was caused by the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u12	This has also been discussed in previous debates, including in discussions with Mrs Agema. In general, people naturally enjoy living as close to their own environment as possible. So that's what you have to focus your care on, so in the neighborhood, with the people themselves. There are also very good examples of this. I would like to mention the GGD approach in Vught, where you show that that can be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u13	On the same subject, Mr. Hijink. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u14	Mrs van den Berg rightly says that it is not very logical to delete places and institutions if care at home and in the neighbourhood is not yet in order. That's actually as stupid as cutting back on home care as you close the nursing homes. But if Mrs Van den Berg says that, doesn't she think that the further reduction in the number of places should be stopped now? Does she even think that we should create more places as long as care in the neighbourhood and at home is not in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u15	Places that have been lifted, you don't just get back. If we all say that people need to go to outpatient care, then we need to use our energy to achieve this very quickly. Every time we think of something new is certainly not the solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u16	It's not about coming up with something new. The point is, you don't throw away your old shoes until you get new ones. That's exactly what happened here. Mrs van den Berg rightly states that it did not go well, that places have been removed without the care at home and in the neighborhood being put in order. Is she therefore prepared to say now to the government: stop breaking down places in institutional care?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u17	If I may continue on the example of Mr Hijink of the shoes: there are no old shoes anymore. It was agreed that there would be new shoes in 2016. Now we see that the process has been much slower. As far as we are concerned, all the energy is now being used to create the new situation very quickly, but not to go back to the old situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u18	Finally, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u19	That's not quite right. I believe that 20% of the number of beds that should eventually be removed is already gone. That should eventually be 30%, it is now 20%. Are you prepared to say that we are now drawing a line here before we continue to do so, and we are going to see that it is in order in the neighborhood and at home before we remove any more beds and places?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u20	It is my understanding, but perhaps mistakenly, that the rate at which these beds are cut down has already been substantially reduced. In this sense, what Mr Hijink proposes is automatic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u21	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u22	Mr. Chairman. The care in the neighborhood isn't in order. Trimbos' research shows that the care is not in order. There was 288 million available to take an extra step for the outpatient ggz and to put the waiting lists in order. We would like clarification from the Secretary of State on exactly what this is about and how much is available now. 'Cause I told you, in the neighborhood, that expertise needs to be there 24/7. Research shows that the same 13,000 people are often involved, so they are already known to the ggz institutions and to the police. There are now municipal approaches to confused behavior. There is a regional approach waiting lists. There will be regions for acute crisis care. These are all different regions and the care for these people is still not regulated. That is why we call for these different regions to be more closely linked with a clear approach, so that the basis can be established and cooperation carried out. Mr. Chairman. The CDA is done with the cards being held against the chest by the parties. The importance of people with confused behavior must come first. The police must come if necessary, but not because there is no mental health care available in the district or region. After the crisis, mental health care should be available if necessary. Here too are the waiting lists then the trench standards. The Secretary of State states that he is investigating the implementation of the regional perseverance force. We would like to know what is going on with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u23	Thank you very much. There's another interruption for you from Mrs. Voortman. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u24	I recognized a great deal in Mrs Van den Berg's speech. Now I have made a point of myself that people, when they see someone with confused behavior, often don't know who to turn to. Then they turn to 112, where the expertise is not present. So I asked: would it be an idea to see if we should make a nationwide hotline for people with confused behavior? I was wondering how the CDA is looking at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u25	I am very curious if the Secretary of State thinks this would be a solution to the problem. Because new initiatives are constantly being developed, and the question is whether you need to develop something new each time or whether you need to push ahead and stick to what you've agreed with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u26	This is not about something that has to replace something else. It's all about you seeing people turning to 911 now. You could also say: they should call the local number. But often they don't know the local number. One place was also a recommendation from the chairman of the National Switch Team, so that people know where to go. With Mrs Van den Berg I am very curious about the cabinet's proposal, but I am also very curious whether the CDA itself has a position on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u27	Once again, we are very interested in what the Secretary of State is going to say about this. Our position depends on the answer to the question whether it could help and whether it could be arranged with little difficulty. Because that's what I'm curious about: what does that mean? I have just spoken about those three regions which are not compatible. Do you actually get a fourth kind of region or level in between? We say that doesn't help. So I'd like to know from the Secretary of State how he sees it. Once again, our concern is that new things are being devised every time, which are not always a solution to the problem. From that perspective, I'd like to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u28	Thank you very much. Then the floor is for Mr De Lange of the VVD. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u29	Thank you, Mr President. A few weeks ago, I walked a day with the ggz and police in Deventer. On the road with streettriage, a smart collaboration to give good and timely care to people with confused behavior and to work on security in the neighborhood. There was someone who had the idea of being attacked by the devil. That was, of course, very frightening for the person himself. But the neighborhood also suffered a nuisance. Kordate police officers in this case and a social-psychological nurse together provided appropriate help. This prevented further escalation. I have a lot of respect for this. People with confused behavior benefit from good and timely care. It doesn't help if there are waiting lists for mental health care. It is agreed that these will be within the threshold before 1 July. Given the current situation, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to do everything possible to normalise the waiting lists within the ggz. The call of a person in confusion must never be the cry of someone who has been waiting a long time for appropriate care. What I cannot respect are ggz institutions that still seek the cause of any problem outside themselves. Don't walk away from your responsibilities. Don't always call for more money; there is. Get to work. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State how many concrete plans around these waiting lists he has received from the ggz institutions. Is the Secretary of State prepared to have the Health and Youth Inspectorate set up and the Dutch Health Authority take action to enforce the agreements made on the waiting lists? As far as I am concerned, this could be more concrete tonight. In addition to reducing waiting lists, there is an urgent need for a coherent approach for people with confused behaviour. Unfortunately, there are municipalities where this is not yet the case, the Switch team reported last week. And that is worrying, since it has been agreed that on October 1st there would be such a final approach in every municipality. As far as the VVD is concerned, this agreement still stands. The time for switching is over, and we need to move on now. I would therefore like to know from the Secretary of State what he will do if municipalities do not have a final approach on 1 October. What kind of instruments is he going to use to keep the agreements? This really needs to happen now, Mr. President. People need the help they need. But as long as they don't get it, their cry for help and attention keeps coming back. The first analysis shows that 13,000 people are responsible for two thirds of all reports and that this is repeated approximately every three months. GGZ Nederland indicates that a large number of these people are not yet in the picture with the care or neighbourhood teams. That surprised me, and that's what I'm worried about. Can the Secretary of State undertake to agree with municipalities, ggz and GGDs before 1 October 2018 on how appropriate and timely care will be achieved? I have heard a number of colleagues say the same thing. This should really be the outcome of tonight. Fortunately, I also see places, such as in North Holland-North, where there is hard work on a closing approach, by knowing 24/7 what is going on and reacting to signals early. This way, a lot of suffering can be avoided. I would therefore like to know from the Secretary of State whether the GGD could also play a greater role as a chain director in ensuring that certain parties really cooperate if they fail to do so, with, for example, such an approach as the GGD in Vught is involved in. Please explain how this can be further completed. Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, it is important that the right care provider is in the right place. They must be able to exchange information with each other. Isn't it really strange that these kinds of care and security parties, when they sit together, have to talk with flour in their mouths because they have privacy problems, while all these people are covered by a form of an oath of office? That is actually a question for the Minister. Can these barriers be identified? And could there be a solution to that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u30	Thank you. There's another interruption from Mr. Hijink for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u31	It just happened so fast. I had another question about the waiting lists. The VVD wants to go through with it. There's really got to be pressure on the kettle right now. I couldn't agree more. The question is only of course: if ggz institutions are often confronted with patient stops in the autumn under pressure from health insurance companies who do not want to pay for more care, then waiting lists naturally arise. How's the VVD looking at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u32	It is, of course, first and foremost a question of whether sufficient care has been bought in. That's the beauty of it: in the Netherlands we have a duty of care. That is why, as far as I am concerned, the two inspections should look into this. The Dutch Healthcare Authority has a role to play in the matter of duty of care. But let's also take a very good look at the plans made by those ggz settings to tackle those waiting lists. My picture is that there really should be a lot more energy in it to get it done. That is why, as far as I am concerned, we need a common enforcement approach, fulfilling the duty of care, ensuring that people are also referred to other caregivers, and the ggz ensures that there is mediation between them to where there are places and space. So I'm sharing that. It's really a matter of moving on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u33	That's not an answer to the question. It was: how can health insurance companies buy such little care that ggz institutions are already confronted with patient stops in the autumn, and that we have waiting lists? These tend to be longer during the year, because more and more institutions are in trouble, while there is a sign that on the other hand we have 300 million or sometimes even more or less left. It is not really fair to explain that you have enough money, that there are insurers who have to buy it, that the ggz institutions run up against the ceiling, and that people end up getting hurt, because they have to wait 50 days while they are in acute crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u34	I also share the view that it is impossible to explain that money is left. That is why I think it is extremely important that these ggz settings clarify what they are doing to tackle these waiting lists. There is also a need to intervene where the standard of duty of care is dropped. We have the Dutch Healthcare Authority for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u35	Thank you. I call Mrs Diertens of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. People with confused behavior are not dangerous criminals, but people who do not receive the right care and support at the time they need it. D66 does not want people with confused behavior to be left to their fate. Mr. Chairman. The care for confused persons starts according to D66 with early warning, prevention and guidance. As an example, I mention GGZ Eindhoven. Through their innovative care, based on the Open Dialogue method, they have received a Planetree Award. Such a closing 24/7 approach with the right follow-up can make a huge difference in the guidance to the right care and support. Collaboration with family and neighbors is essential here. Unfortunately, we do not see enough of this kind of approach. What will the Secretary of State do to ensure and promote this final approach? The previous interim report of the Switch team reported that the appropriate transport is perceived as a major bottleneck. Fortunately, this is well taken up in some regions. A few months ago, I was visiting GGZ Drenthe. They have a psycholance driving together with the city and the police. This is an initiative that works well, especially in conjunction with an emergency policy designed with a low incentive. At present, however, they are very dependent on subsidies and experimental spaces in the current legislation. As a result, the future of appropriate transport remains uncertain. When will the Secretary of State come forward with more clarity about this? It is important that there is sufficient and accessible acute psychiatric care for those who need it. The new, on-going funding of acute psychiatry is in itself positive, but I do wonder why 72 hours of crisis treatment has been chosen, while the ggz and health insurance companies advise the Netherlands a two-week crisis treatment. I'd like a response. The intermediate message from the Switch team and the conversations on the agenda show that there is a lot of work going on. That's obvious. But I have two things to say about it. It's a good start, but research is one thing. Implementing and executing is a logical and incredibly important follow-up step. I note that it is still unclear how the regional approach takes shape in practice. That's very worrying. How does the Secretary of State view this? On 1 October, there will probably not be a final approach in many municipalities, while college negotiations are still under way. How are the knowledge and progress of the Switch team secured after 1 October? Mr President, I will conclude. In practice, there are good initiatives that show that good care and support for confused people is possible. Let us make sure that barriers are lifted so that everyone who needs them can have proper care and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u37	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr De Lange. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u38	Mrs Diertens indicated that the deadline of 1 October for the final approach is unlikely to be met. You're actually saying that you're a little bit of a fact. But how do you feel about that? It's April now. Do you not think that everything should be done to meet that deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u39	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u40	Do you not actually believe that it would be a good idea for both inspections to be a municipal approach, but it is also an approach against waiting lists and for sufficient places to take on the role now to make sure that the agreements are complied with and that this process is pursued?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u41	I think that's very important. However, the diversity within the group we are talking about, that of people with confused behavior, is enormous. That's what you read from the reports. Not everyone who is found with confused behavior on the street has a psychiatric condition or mental illness. Some people, too, might happen to you.......may get so confused right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u42	Whoa, whoa. You are talking to the President, apparently, because we are speaking through the President. I understand it all, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u43	Yes. Anyway, it could happen to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u44	Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u45	In that sense, it is very important that we get a very clear view of this. And hopefully those waiting lists will be solved. The sector itself has indicated that care in its own neighborhood, close to themselves, is most beneficial to people themselves. So I think that we can take a step from there and that we should indeed be focusing on getting rid of the waiting lists. We have asked questions about this too. We want them to be answered by 31 May because we are very concerned about this. I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u46	Excuse me. I already turned off the microphone, but you weren't quite finished, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u47	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u48	Go ahead. Your last sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u49	I think it will certainly come up again in the AO, because then hopefully our questions will also have been answered by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u50	Mr. De Lange, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u51	Then it is clear to me too, but we are debating this evening and the urgency is so great that it would be nice if we could take steps tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u52	I agree. If we can take a step in that, that's very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u53	Thank you. Then there's another interruption from Mrs. Voortman for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u54	I have also made a point in my contribution of people who are asking for help but are not yet in crisis. They feel something coming but are not always helped, while voluntarily asking for recording. I was wondering whether the D66 group would also receive these signals and whether she would agree that we should pay particular attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u55	I believe that this has to do with prevention and early warning and that we certainly have to pay a great deal of attention to this. You don't have to wait for someone to get over the blade before you give help. That's very essential. But I must also say that I know from practice that these are very often circles. We've talked about people getting confused over and over and over again. This is also frequently reported. So I think we need to get this final approach to early warning and prevention in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u56	GroenLinks and D66 agree on this. Would Mrs Diertens therefore agree that it would be a good idea to ask the Secretary of State to give an idea of how often people ask for voluntary admission but are rejected for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u57	Having read the reports so far, I think there are still a lot of questions about the research that has been done. A whole category has also been left out of the investigation. For example, high-risk people fall into category H. They weren't included in these tests. So anything that can still be taken away from research and ideas makes our complete picture better. That's what we could talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u58	Finally, Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u59	The question I just asked Mrs Diertens, I was not able to raise in my own contribution. I hope, therefore, that the Secretary of State will regard this question as being put to him, and will answer it in his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u60	I'd like to direct him to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u61	We will forward the report of this part of the meeting to the Secretary of State. Thank you. Finally, Mrs Agema of the Party for Freedom has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u62	Thank you. In the RIVM report, we read that the number of E33 reports of nuisance caused by confused or overexcited persons increased to 83,500 in 2017, and that there is no criminal offence involved in these reports. On the same page we read that we actually know little about the people who form this group. However, the Confused Behaviour Switch team considered it sufficient to draw up a definition. According to them, it is "people who lose their grip on their lives, thereby creating the risk of harming themselves or others," while we read on the same page that there is no criminal offence in these 83 500 reports. If you throw all these reports at a big pile and also use a definition that is not really based on anything, you run the risk that these things will lead their own lives. It is so bad that the Rotterdam Chief Constable Paauw believes that confused people kill more people than terror. Or take the interest organisation MIND, who improved us this afternoon and wrote that it is not about confused persons but about people who, mostly temporarily, show confused behavior. Next, the cabinet is going to work vigorously and there will be a well-meant approach, with all kinds of empty terms such as "prevention," "hunting team" and "shifting team," and with real flying brigades. This lays a foundation for the future; a foundation of quicksand, if you ask me. Because you don't build a foundation just by saying you're building a foundation. In the debate, too, we come back to this perpetual, appalling hypocrisy. At a time when the number of 80-plussers is steadily increasing, the number of nursing homes dropped from around 80,000 at the end of 2012 to only a few thousand now. Also, a third of the inpatient ggz sites were closed. There's the only real link needed here. The only real missing link in our system is not a Switch team, but enough places. These are places where confused people can catch their breath as much as possible temporarily or places where demented people can live for the rest of their lives. The 83 500 notifications represent about 13,000 people; 275 notifications even one person. The coalition plus GroenLinks and the Labour Party don't want to see that, because it's their fault that those places are gone. And so we are saddled with a worthless approach to nothing more than hollow phrases. In Amsterdam a few years ago, by the way, file research was carried out. And what's pale? 13% of the people who had picked the police off the streets in a confused state turned out to be dementing. The image of a demented lady of 90 years who was taken off the streets twice naked and for whom no place in and nursing home was available, is still clearly in our minds. That's why it's such a shame that we don't know nationally what kind of groups the group of 13,000 people consists of from the E33 cobbler. The only concrete part of the letter from the Secretary of State of 11 April, in which he refers to my colleague Karin Gerbrands' proposal to include in the study the extent to which drug and drug use influences confused behaviour, is no relief either. On the contrary, the Secretary of State writes that figures on the combination of confused behaviour, drug use and drug-related problems are not available and are not available either. That is where the problem lies. Before we debate, we need to know what we're talking about. Otherwise, everyone's gonna give it their own content. I think it is important that the E33 report is broken down by type, size, region when it comes to drinking, drugs, drug use, family problems, dementia and psychiatry. At this subdivision you can actually set out a concrete approach with the municipality as a Switch team. So you can build a foundation on that. Until then, therefore, we have to deal with all those agents, crisis workers and all those other aid workers who, without a real approach, take care of all those confused people with attention and involvement. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u63	Thank you very much. This puts an end to the first term of office. The directors have requested a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u64	We need the first term from the cabinet. I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u65	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Chamber very much for giving it a heartfelt thought on this important issue. Before I go into specific questions, I would like to say a few words about the subject of people with confused behavior. We are talking today about an issue that has been on the agenda a lot lately, and rightly so, I think. It's about helping very vulnerable people, people, as we say, with confused behavior. Very often we also say confused people. I would like to stay away from that term myself, but talk about people with confused behavior. People with confused behavior are people who often threaten to fall between shore and ship or have already fallen. Over the past few weeks and months, a lot has been written about numbers, causes and bottlenecks from different perspectives. That also indicates how complex the subject is. I do not want to say that we are not going to answer questions, but it is a complex matter. I would first like to comment on the tone of the coverage of the past period. I would also like to emphasise the importance of not stigmatizing people with confused behaviour. For those people it is important that they do not feel put away as dangerous, mad or as merely confused. They're people. It's a very diverse group of..... that are more than the confused behavior that they sometimes or more often exhibit. It is also of no benefit to aid if we put this group of people away as dangerous or threatening. At least that has two sides. First of all, we want to have a climate in the Netherlands where there is support for helping people who are in trouble. Also for people living in neighborhoods and neighborhoods for whom there is no place in an institution or about whom we say it is much better if they do not stay in an institution, it would be very desirable if they could feel safe in their neighborhood. They should know, if they occasionally have behavior that is not quite average, what we then call confused behavior, that there is attention for them and that we in the Netherlands have a culture that people dare to address each other and that we also ask the simple question: how are you doing, can I help you? If we put these people away as a category of dangerous people who are menacing and more dangerous than terrorists, then we are not doing society any favours, especially those people. It is also not useful to do so in the case of assistance, because the motivation of the clients concerned may deteriorate if we put them away and stigmatize them. Of course, I would add that we do not want and cannot ignore feelings of insecurity. Of course there are accidents. Some spokesmen have pointed out that the group we are talking about with the E33 notifications and the E14 reports are not people who have committed a criminal offence, but people who have caused nuisance or suicidal tendencies. So they didn't commit a criminal offence, but it could just degenerate into it. I would like to say on behalf of the cabinet that we are not ignoring those feelings of insecurity, but that we are talking about other people when it comes to insecurity. Crisis situations can be avoided by providing the helping hand at the right time. All the spokesmen in the Chamber are also very much in agreement on this. It is often a combination of causes. So the solution should include several aspects, such as a stable living environment, a suitable home, appropriate work, support and appropriate care. I join with Mrs Voortman in saying that people's financial position is a very important aspect. I wholeheartedly endorse those words. You can also expect this aspect to be taken into account in the debt letter that is coming from my colleague Tamara van Ark, also in relation to people who have problems with their behaviour. Mr. Chairman. It is also important to take the right facts, the honest story, into account in the debate. Only then can an appropriate strategy be adopted. The signal that the number of people with confused behavior could be directly related to cuts in mental health care must be rejected. That's just not the issue. In fact, the mental health budget has increased considerably in recent years. I am not saying that I can already see Mrs Agema coming to the interrupting microphone and that the money is always well spent. But it's available. There is therefore no question of budget cuts. More money has become available in the ggz, but perhaps not always the things that are very sensible have been done with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u66	I also attach great importance to the facts. There has indeed been no cuts on the ggz, but on the inpatient ggz. That's where a third of the places have been cut off. People who could have gone somewhere before can't do that anymore. So there has been cuts, not the ggz, not the Health Insurance Act, but the inpatient places. Don't deny it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u67	You didn't hear me say that either. The fact that there has been a bed dismantling is simply a fact. My point is: no cuts have been made on the ggz. I can hear Mrs Agema confirm that. Well, then, thankfully, we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u68	In fact, there is a comma and it is: in the inpatient ggz, a third of the places are reduced. There's gonna be a comma, and no point!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u69	But the total budget for mental health care in the Netherlands has grown. In doing so, we have wanted to use a movement of people in institutions in which the Netherlands, to put it bluntly, has been a world champion for helping people at home, outpatient assistance. You may disagree, but we all want to use this movement: from institutions to helping people in the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u70	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u71	I'm really sorry. This is still incorrect. Ggz care has indeed grown, but no tasks have been added. Thus, the total post for outpatient ggz has grown, but no tasks have been added. On the other hand, you have the long-term inpatient ggz, where a third of the spots have disappeared. So no care has gone to the outpatient ggz. It's grown on its own. Those are the facts. We can say: yes, but in total we pay more. But then you're adding apples and pears. It's just not right. The number of tasks is the same. There are no cuts in the ggz, but a third of the inpatient spots are gone. So one third of the worst people can go down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u72	I see here a classic example of talking side by side. I say, there's no cuts on the ggz. That's just a fact. In 2013, 3.2 billion euros were available in the Netherlands for the ggz, 3.5 billion euros in 2017. Period, done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u73	That's just factually incorrect...!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u74	No, Mrs Agema: you can tell that to the interrupting microphone, not from the benches. I call Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u75	Here, the suggestion is raised that there would be no relationship between the cuts within the public sector, and the problems we are now seeing on the street, but that relationship is of course there. I mentioned the problems with the police. More and more neighborhood agents are no longer found in their own neighborhood and therefore no longer have the function of eyes and ears in the neighborhood. We have had the discussion about the disappearance of places in nursing homes, which means that people with dementia find themselves in the streets more often and more easily in a crisis. Indeed, a lot of places have been lost in the ggz. If you look at the whole public sector, there's been a blow in the last few years. That has had a lot of impact on all those people who no longer have a place where they get care. Would the Secretary of State agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u76	The picture is that registering more people with confused behavior has a direct causal link with budget cuts in the ggz. I want to fight that image. Mr Hijink of the SP Group indicated that much more had happened in the public sector. A separation of living and care has been applied, which means that more people were expected to live at home. This may also have effects, like the more complex society, which may not always have responded well. Those are all things that happened next to them. I would now like to make the point that there is no direct causal link between the available budget in the ggz and the increase in reports of people with confused behaviour. That's the only point I want to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u77	To be honest, I do not think that is such a relevant point. I think this is what everyone is trying to do in this debate, and I think that you are trying to understand the very broad picture. If you look at what the previous cabinet in particular has done in the public sector, you will see that there has been balding. Then you're talking about the police, then you're talking about the ggz, then you're talking about the nursing homes, then you're talking about home care, then you're talking about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u78	Would you like to ask a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u79	The sum total of all these cuts is, of course, that it cannot be harm-free. You can't damage-free...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u80	You'll have the floor in a minute. We're gonna do it neatly one by one. Mr. Hijink, you're going to ask a question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u81	You cannot cut back on all those different areas of the public sector without causing a great deal of nuisance and misery, especially for those people who are now in an acute crisis on the streets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u82	If you don't ask your question right now, the microphone will go off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u83	Oh, okay. The question is: does the Secretary of State acknowledge that the broad cuts in the public sector have everything to do with the problem we are discussing tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u84	This is a bit of a strange debate, because the point I want to make at the beginning of my speech is that, in the context of the debate on people with confused behaviour, it is often said: see, that is because of the cuts in the ggz. The only point I want to make now is that that is factually incorrect. That there is also a very broad spectrum of other problems in our society and that things, for example at local level, have not been picked up as well as we would like, is... I shall come back later on to what things we have to do and what homework is still there. The only thing I want to fight strongly is that, in the debate on people with confused behaviour, we could say: this is due to cuts in the ggz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u85	Then Mrs Voortman on the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u86	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I don't have the VWS budget in my head, but I want the Secretary of State on his blue... brown eyes to believe that the amounts he mentions are right. I think he already took an advance on it himself that it is indeed about the choices you make about what you do with that money. What you see is that the reduction of the beds probably went faster than the proper organization of the outpatientization of the care. Couldn't there really be a link to seeing more people with confused behavior on the street?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u87	I am pleased that Mrs Voortman is putting her question this way: could there not be a causal link there? That cannot be ruled out, but the Trimbos Institute also notes that that causal link is not one-on-one. That says: we don't rule it out, but it hasn't been proven. In fact, we should bring that closer together, because I agree with Mrs Agema when she says: what exactly are we talking about? What type of people are they? And how are you going to make sure you know exactly where the problems are and where the causes are? We will then also, of course, look at whether there has been sufficient outpatient care. Indeed, it cannot be that you are pulling down beds and at the same time not organizing enough outpatient assistance. The fact is that the Trimbos Institute does not see that causal link one-on-one. So I say to your question: I want to think seriously about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u88	I think that is very good, because the Secretary of State could have said: it has not been proved and so it is not there. The fact that he says here'maybe that's the connection' and that we are about to have the debate on how we are organizing this ambulance, I think that is good. It may be that I'll be at the interrupting microphone again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u89	We'll see. I would say continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u90	Mr. Chairman. I come to the work of the Switching Team, because I believe that this is also an important reason for this debate. Last week, that Switch team published an interim report, in which municipalities are called upon, I say, flatly, to step up their efforts, for example by paying particular attention in their coalition agreements, which are now being concluded massively in the Netherlands, to the support of people with confused behavior. Of course, I wholeheartedly support that call from the Switch Team. I see that a lot is happening in many different places in the country. One of the spokesmen I thought Mrs. Diertens said she'd been to work in Drenthe. I wasn't there at the same time, but I've been there. We are looking for examples left and right in the country and the Optimal Life programme is such an example of a program where all relevant healthcare providers work together massively to organise support in the region of Drenthe in such a way that people can be optimally helped. We are talking about a very wide range of assistance. Mr. Chairman. The reporting of Significant, which is based on a survey of municipalities, confirms the picture that many regions are active. Are we there? No, not yet. At the same time, I think we should count our blessings. What I like, for example, is that almost 90% of the municipalities respond to the question, 88%. The logical question, which I also asked Mr Onno Hoes of the Switch team, is: what do you do with the 12% that are not responding? 'Cause maybe that's what we need to worry about most. That's where the Switch team's gonna go. I think it's also a task of the Switch team. It is going to approach the municipalities with the question: we want your data, because we cannot get an answer if we turn off such an important question. Moreover, in the light of recent history, the response of almost 90% to such a demand is really very high. Almost all the municipalities that have answered the questions, 93.4%, indicate that they have expertise available in the district on the subject of confusion. That's just a very high score. It's not 100% yet, but it's heading in the right direction. Almost all the municipalities in the study, 95.5%, indicate that people can go somewhere with concerns about people with confused behavior. There's a clear address. Almost all municipalities in the research, more than 90%, have a consultative structure for complex cases. Those are hopeful figures. Municipalities and their partners deserve a compliment in the cabinet, as well as the Switch team, which has put a lot of pressure on it to achieve this result. At the same time, I would add that much remains to be done. That was my first reaction last week, when those figures were presented. Much remains to be done. That's what the Switch team writes. I would like to comment later on questions that have been raised, but I am thinking of issues such as prevention and early warning, appropriate transport and secure ggz. There is still a great deal to be done on such issues. Local authorities, as well as health insurers and healthcare providers, can also play a major role in this. Mr. Chairman. Let me just say something about the high numbers of reports. I do not know to what extent Mr Grapperhaus is going to go into this. I think the question is: how do you explain that increase in the number of notifications? I would like to say a few words about that, regardless of what I just said about the relationship with the budget for the ggz. Why is that, such an increase in the number of reports? My general answer is: did I know exactly, because we don't know exactly. That, too, requires a piece of homework. But there are some very obvious general reasons. We are just coming out of an economic crisis, which has led to more homelessness and more people with confused behavior on the street. Society is becoming more complex. The bar is always higher for people. People live for longer on their own. This is a social choice, but it can lead to them not getting the help they need at times. It may be that there is a reduction in tolerance, that in a neighbourhood there is less absorption than we would like. It is certainly also a consequence of registration effects. The E33 reports haven't been around very long. If you introduce such a new system, it's pretty logical that you see an increase after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u91	Is this the lockdown of a cube?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u92	Yes, Mr President, I had this as a general explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u93	I call Mrs Agema. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u94	The Secretary of State just quoted a report that I actually found rather amazing. There is a disclaimer on page 4, namely that there is a risk that the respondents, the municipalities, will give socially desirable answers, because it will be published. Then I think: then you can no longer use all those results from such a report. In addition, I found the following really interesting. 66% indicate that they pay attention to people with confused behavior. But on another page it says that 34.6% have no idea of the number of people with confused behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u95	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u96	How does the Secretary of State feel about that? This is a polished image and even then almost 35% indicates that you do not have a view of the number of people. The disclaimer is that the results are not reliable, but still 35% honest indicates that they have no idea. How does the Secretary of State feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u97	In her first term, Mrs Sazias also asked this question: there is light between the image that municipalities themselves give in the answer and what the Switch team attaches to it. I think that is the question that Mrs Agema is asking. In reply to that, I would like to say the following. The Switch team notes in an interim message that many municipalities make plans. The Switch team appreciates that there are many plans for a well-functioning approach, but also notes that there may be a paper reality. That is quite an observation, and we must all take it seriously. So I also said that there is still a lot of work to be done. Because you may have a policy plan, but you haven't helped anyone yet. Clients and family don't always notice it. This is why the Switch team has called on municipalities to make additional efforts as a result of the mid-term report. I also keep saying we're really not here yet. This final approach, which I will deal with later, is far from being implemented everywhere. There are only a few white ravens left, where it really runs fantastic. So no one rules out that there is light between the image outlined in the report and reality. That's what the Switch team finds out. The Switch team is therefore going to give municipalities in bite-ready chunks of ingredients to make work of that. For example, by providing ready-made texts to address this important phenomenon in a coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u99	No, I still... I'm...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u100	You're still answering?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u101	I take Mrs. Agema very seriously, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u102	Yeah, that's fine. But it must be an answer to an interruption and not a whole argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u103	In addition, it is precisely because we see that there may be some light between the answers given and what we all want, a 'flying brigade plus' is being deployed, a pool of additional experts to support municipalities in making a final approach. That is my answer to the question of whether there is a light between politically desirable answers and reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u104	So here's what I was wondering. If you have a report that the authors in the disclaimer already say the results may have been polished up. And when you come to a table, where the question "you have a view of the number of people with confused behavior" says more than a third "no" while you already know that those answers have been polished up. And when they all finally say, somewhere else, we do think we are ready before 1 October. Dan's...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u105	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u106	You may, of course, in a moment. But first we will hear what Mrs Agema's question is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u107	It's polished up, so probably half of it doesn't have the place in order, but before October 1st they'll have it ready. What kind of paper reality is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u108	That is a logical question that Mrs Agema is asking. But I find the way of answers of congregations fair. I also think it makes sense what that answer is. Most of the municipalities say they are working on a plan of action. Let us please welcome the fact that municipalities are doing this at all, because a few years ago, municipalities really did not know that they had anything to do with dealing with this problem. So we've already made a lot of meters in that. Municipalities who claim to work on it can at the same time also say that they have no idea of the number of people. That is not strange, because these people sometimes tend to move beyond municipal boundaries. Of the more than 80,000 reports mentioned in the report, 19,000 people are no longer traceable. This is just for the simple reason that a report has been made, but the people are gone when an emergency service arrives. Then I find that municipalities answer the question quite honestly and say that they do not have an exact view of the number of people with confused behaviour. Then I'd think it was a paper reality if they said they did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u109	Now an interruption by Mrs Sazias. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Rewind in the Secretary of State's story. He mentioned that in many municipalities there is an address where people can go into an acute crisis. I know there is such an address in the Gooi and Vecht region. You just don't get there right away. There you only come through the GP. Which of course is a problem in the evening, because then it cannot be done via your own GP.... or via the police. Perhaps Minister Grapperhaus should answer that question, but isn't that one of the reasons why the pressure on the police is so great, because they always have to be in between?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u111	Your point is clear. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u112	In any case, they should not always be among them, because a lot of people know how to find their way to acute aid without the police intervening. In many cases this is also the pure route, without the police having to spend her precious hours on it. So that happens a lot. It is desirable that the amount of police intervention should be further reduced, as we also aim to ensure that the police do not carry people who are in a confused situation and have nothing to do with anything criminal and therefore not with the police. So we want to relieve the police from all sides. At the same time, the police are often the first to be present. Especially in an acute, threatening situation, the police are often the first to be present. I think that will continue to be the case in the future even with all the final approaches.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u113	This may, of course, be necessary if there is aggressive behaviour, but if you want to reduce that pressure, there will have to be another way of entering the crisis service than necessarily through the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u114	One moment, Secretary of State. It makes sense to answer when I give you the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u115	But I'm talking really loud!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u116	Yeah, that's true. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u117	I also tried to indicate in my reply that people are very often entering acute aid without intervention from the police. In my opinion, Mr De Lange had a fine example from Deventer, where the ggz nurse, in consultation with the police, is right on the spot. They form outpatient teams there and can often de-escalate. Because nothing is for someone with a mental illness, for example someone with a psychosis, as radical as being carried away in a police van with a flashlight. That's so counterproductive that we all want to avoid it, I think you do too. The best part is when there's a very good collaboration between the ggz and the police. The starting point is that, when there is a dominant problem of ggz, it would be very nice if it were organized in each municipality so that there could be assistance on the spot that could lead to acute aid. That's my intention, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u118	The Secretary of State states that there is a lot of hard work and that plans are being made, but that plans may also tend to be patient, and that this is mainly about how things are actually going, how they are being taken up. RIVM has made an initial analysis of these E33 notifications. One question I found interesting was how many people are actually. The first analysis shows that there are 34,000 people, 13,000 of whom are responsible for two thirds of all reports. That is very concrete, because those numbers of those people should be traceable. Would it not be a very concrete solution to analyse precisely where these 13,000 people live and how the care of those people is organised, and to instruct those communities and health care institutions to go ahead with these people and organise a final approach? That seems very practical and concrete to me and it seems to me a very nice way to test whether the structure really stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u119	That is a very logical question and, as far as I am concerned, it is a very good one. In reply to that, I would like to say that Mr Hoes suggested this when he presented the interim report: focus on those 13,000 people, so to speak, put them in the picture with names and numbers and see if the care around those people is well organized. Or do you need a tooth? Or does it have to be started at all? I would just like to make a comment on the number. 13,000 sounds clear, but it's still a lot of people. I would also like to make an analysis of this, without pushing it forward in time, but I would also like to look at the people who caused more than twice a nuisance. I think I have heard the number of 5,700 in the context of people who have been reported more than twice through an E33 report. Let's focus on that before we join that very large group. Maybe we should take that next step, but let's take a look at this first. I also know from my experience as alderman in the municipality of Apeldoorn that this approach works very well. There was a nuisance at the town hall of a group of young people with men. Huge noise! There was just a scan: which people are actually involved, do we have names and numbers, are they in a care program or should we start that, are we going to talk to the parents of those young people? It worked perfectly. It solved the problem. However, some people need long-term care, but the problem is tackled very well with skin and hair. So the approach proposed by Mr De Lange is fine. Please give me a moment to see if we should bet on 13 000 or a slightly smaller number than the obvious large oppressive group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u120	The time to organize this properly seems fine to me. I think it would be nice to make an appointment: if you start with that first group, in which people come back more often... I think it was also the 13 000 people who came back more often, about every three months. I'm fine with making that deal. But how is the Court then specifically reported on, for example, that first group and its results? Maybe it's a good thing we know what we're working towards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u121	I think it is reasonable that we should strive to give you an idea before the summer holidays of how we want to visualize that group of 13 000 and where it is desirable and necessary to take the first steps. We'll see if it has any added value if you're gonna refine that group and organise a customization solution for that or we're gonna get the whole group right away. It may be that we are all raising ourselves to that and that it is very well defendable that you take a slightly smaller group, with a very good story to tell that you focus your attention on first. I can give you more clarity about that before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u122	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u123	Mrs Diertens and others have asked how you can ensure this final approach. This is being pursued and a target date of 1 October has been mentioned for a final approach involving the family, the relatives and the relatives and there is 24/7 accessibility, guidance and care. It is important that the many activities of the Switch team are well secured. Spokesmen have asked how to do this after 1 October. We can say that a foundation has been laid, because the subject is well on the agenda and it is more than letters. A lot of work is being done to give a good follow-up to this. I am thinking of the question of how I, together with JenV's colleague, the Switch team and the Association of Dutch Municipalities, can shape the guarantee, even after 1 October. In my view, it would be a good idea to join existing initiatives. What goes well, we need to build up and we need to set out good examples throughout the country. It is also important that, with the regions, but also with individual municipalities, we give good substance to what we call a multi-annual agenda for protected housing and social care. That's a coat rack I'm intensively talking about with congregations. It is about helping people in the neighbourhood who are vulnerable, with mental health questions, but also with other people with confused behavior, to the best of their ability to help. The laws on forced care recently adopted in the First Chamber can also help to get the outpatient care really well off the ground. In addition, the ZonMw grants, which are now fairly widely claimed by municipalities in order to get all kinds of projects off the ground, continue until 2021. It's just locked up. That doesn't stop on October 1st. Money remains available, and that's big money with six zeros. The subsidies for appropriate transport, for example, will also be extended as far as I am concerned. We are also going to see how we can secure the appropriate transport. As far as I am concerned, this is an answer to your question, unless you say "well, it's not." Then we'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u124	One moment. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u125	I am concerned not only with finance and coordination, but also with the experimental space in the law. How do you see that in transport?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u126	By the transport? Here too, we want to continue to offer this space, but things will crystallize. At some point, regions have a good picture of whether there is a good business case, for example for using a psycholance or other transport from a ggz institution. Then that must be secured and then we look at the financiers. But at some point there will also have to be legislation. There's gonna be a new Ambulance Act. It'll take a few years. We are also talking to municipalities to see what responsibility they can take in good transport. As far as I'm concerned, we're not gonna stop experimenting on October 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u127	I am pleased that the Secretary of State is very committed to getting this right. He mentioned subsidies a few times. I thought, now we're going to talk about money, but I haven't heard about the 288 million I asked a question about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u128	You're gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u129	I'll get back to you on that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u130	I'll be right there. Mr Hijink has just made the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u131	It could be a short question, you know. What struck me in the Trimbos Institute's research is that only 20% of healthcare providers have made agreements with health insurers about how care in neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods is put in order. I really thought that was a shockingly low figure. I wonder what the Secretary of State thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u132	I don't know if I heard you right. Did you say that 20% of the healthcare providers didn't make any agreements on outpatient care?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u133	If I read Trimbos's piece correctly, it says that only 20% of healthcare providers have agreed with a health insurance provider on intensification in sterility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u134	There's more to it than that. There have also been conversations with healthcare providers with the health insurance provider and then the conclusion was that there was no need to buy extra. Or the healthcare providers themselves had come to that conclusion. Where I find it really exciting is that 20% of healthcare providers are also talking to health insurers and that the two do not agree on the use of outpatient care. I very much requested that we have a very good discussion with each other. It cannot be that a healthcare provider has a well-founded story, requires money from the health insurance provider and that the health insurance provider says "we do not." This also has to do with the resources still available, the 288 million. The resources can be used in principle. So it's not a money issue. In the view of health insurers, some of the healthcare providers have not properly substantiated why they consider that they should use additional outpatient assistance. That fight is taking place, or at least that conversation. I have addressed them both quite well: you cannot allow that to continue; a good conclusion has to be drawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u135	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u136	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Voortman has asked for special attention for family and experience experts who are talking to municipalities, for example. Experience experts can play an important role for people with confused behavior, especially in the ggz and in the wide field of well-being. We all know that. Experience expertise as a profession is in full development. You probably know, and perhaps even better than I do, that in the current dbc-systematic there is no basis for funding expertise, but I have also heard that there are agreements with health insurers to make this quite declarable. Well, that's complicated, because actually, based on the dbc, it can't. In the future funding system, which the NZa is working on, this phenomenon is explicitly addressed: how do we use experience experts? I have also understood that some municipalities are prepared to commit themselves to this and to finance it. So it's both sides. On the one hand, municipalities are committed. An example is Utrecht, where, for example, experience experts engage in conversation with people with confused behavior. I went to work there. It works really great, very low-threshold. Those people speak with a great deal of conviction to people who are partly the same as they have had. So, all in all, a good development, but when it comes to financial guaranteeing the use of experience expertise, it is only really well secured when there is a funding basis for it in the ggz. The commitment and involvement of family is important to me. I also think this is a piece of homework for municipalities that talk to people with confused behavior, for example in the context of protected living or otherwise in the area of Wmo. Then I think it's very good if the network, including the family, is involved. As far as I am concerned, that should be culture in all the municipalities. I also urge municipalities to ensure that, for example, in their plans on sheltered housing and social care. Mr. Chairman. Mr De Lange made the date of 12 October quite clear. If there's no final approach, then what? Did it fail? So how are we supposed to proceed? I have already said that the Switch team also counts blessings and sees that the glass is more than half full and that a lot of good is happening, but at the same time says: we need to step up. In any case, I have already said with the Switch team: we have to ensure a good final sprint towards 1 October. Now I find a really close approach quite a lot. A final approach assumes that everything is waterproof, and I fear that we will never get a system in the Netherlands that is completely waterproof. A very good approach on 1 October will be discussed in many regions, but not in all. I think we should take that seriously. Then how are you gonna make sure that happens? Are you going to say: we lost the battle; what a pity? No, we will have a serious discussion with the regions where this is not yet happening. Then we also have an offer, also from the Empire, to help municipalities and they where there are gaps, and they will undoubtedly still have to make a big effort on 1 October. There are resources available for that. I mentioned them just now: funding from ZonMw, and a "flying brigade plus," whatever you imagine, with real commitment from experts. In all ways, municipalities are greatly helped. Mr. Chairman. Several spokesmen, for example Mrs Sazias, have also asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u137	One moment. There is an interruption by Mr De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u138	I understand that, of course, you always strive for a close and good approach. That's what it's all about: an approach that works, that's practical and that makes sure you finally achieve the results you want. From the reports there is already a good picture of where this approach actually works and where it does not. Do I understand that I can interpret it in such a way that in the coming months these additional instruments such as flying brigades and assistance are already being deployed, and that we are not waiting until 1 October to see that, but that, where we already know that and where there is at least a suspicion that we can still use some expertise, is now being actively offered?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u139	That offer's already on the table. We really want to give a big push on this and make sure that municipalities that really need to come from far away are able to catch up. By the way, we can achieve quite a lot in a few months. I shall give an example of this later on in the transport sector. We can achieve a great deal in a few months, but we must take serious account of the fact that a great deal of work still needs to be done after 1 October. But before that, we are certainly not going to wait patiently until we have reached that date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u140	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u141	Several spokesmen, including Mrs Sazias, said: shouldn't the Switch team simply continue after 1 October? That is a conversation we are having: how do we proceed with that? That's one of the variants. By the way, the people of the Switch team must have the willingness to move forward. But it is also quite conceivable that we will actually reduce the Switch team or allow it to continue in slimming form, or that we will provide a good infrastructure around municipalities to ensure it well after 1 October. You may hold me to the fact that the subject of people with confused behaviour remains on the agenda after 1 October, and that we also have a good administrative structure, where the Minister of JenV and I and all the relevant parties, police and care parties, are at the table to ensure that there is a good approach everywhere. Whether we need an extra Switch team or a slumped Switch team or whatever infrastructure we need, that's the question. That's what we're talking about. We will, of course, tell you what choice we make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u142	Just a moment, Mrs. Sazias, I think she'd like to ask you a question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u143	It has become clear in this debate that we will not be there on 1 October 2018, even though everyone is going to make a great effort to do so. Maybe not everyone can stay on that Switch team and maybe people can be replaced, but wouldn't it be smart to extend this Switch team, if only for one year? 'Cause apparently that's loosened something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u144	It is very nice that Mrs Sazias gives the credits to the Switch team that it also deserves. For me it is not certain that this infrastructure is the only solution, but I am seriously considering whether this is the variant that best helps us, or whether other variants are possible. I will talk to Mr Hoes' club very much about this, but I am also looking at other variants. I am being judged by you as to whether the approach is well off the ground and is maintained, and is also protected. It's not like we have a trick around October 1st and done. This will remain on the agenda. About exactly how we shape the infrastructure, I'll inform you carefully, but I'm really not going to promise that the Switch team will stay in the air, regardless of what it thinks about it. I think that's premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u145	Mrs. Sazias still?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u146	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u147	No? Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u148	Mr. Chairman. Mr. Hijink of the SP has asked what the cabinet is going to do to solve the refurbished care, all those boxes and shots. That is a fair question, because it affects municipalities, health insurance companies, healthcare providers and, above all, clients. I think it's good that we're having an intrusive conversation about this. I mentioned earlier in a letter that I am making funding available for better cooperation between health insurers and municipalities, for example the 18-min, 18-plus approach. It's gotta be smoother than that. That is an explicit theme. I want to help pull that cart out of the mud where it's spoken in terms of shots. I want to initiate and maintain the conversation between health insurers and municipalities. In my opinion, the most important part of the answer is that we pay attention to it and that we encourage municipalities and health insurance companies to work more together. Mr. Chairman. Mrs van den Berg asks whether the basis is not in order at all. In the general view, I have dealt with the causes and what infrastructure is and is not. We can really say with dry eyes that the basis is in good order in most regions, but that even more is needed to speak of a very good approach. Some regions really need to come a long way. You can assume from me that we are on top of encouraging these regions to reach the same level as other regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u149	One of the things we are talking about is that there are three types of regions: a region for confused behaviour, one for waiting lists and one for acute concern. That is precisely one of the reasons why an integrated approach often leaves a lot to be desired. I'd like to hear more about that from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u150	I remember when I was an alderman, when I was freaking out about all those regions and all that incongruousness. That's a thorn in the flesh of a lot of drivers. It's a reality now. I do not think that the solution at the moment is to make all regions congruent, because then we'll tear up a lot. I am also afraid that we will lose support in municipalities if we force them to make regions congruent. I like to talk about logical partnerships and logical regional boundaries, but I don't want to go over them from The Hague in the sense of: that's the way it is!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u151	Then may I conclude that you want to reward good behavior? Can I interpret it like that? Or are you just trying to seduce me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u152	I always want to reward good behavior, but I do not think good behavior is necessarily related to how regions are formed. Also with a patchwork of regions in the different spheres of care, there is very good cooperation possible. In the meantime, I have found that good help, good care, looking after your neighbor is not so much dependent on structures, but above all on people who are willing and seeking cooperation. I do not know how we should reward the congruentization of regions, because I certainly do not have a bag of money for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u153	Finally, Mrs van den Berg, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u154	The point is that the Secretary of State says: I do want to reward good behavior, even if we come to this concrete cooperation in a different way. The Secretary of State rightly points out that structures must form the basis, but a culture is also very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u155	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u156	Yes. I'm coming to the next block. I've got four cubes. I now come to the block of acute ggz, transportation, hotlines and secure care. First of all, I would like to address Mrs Diertens' question about acute care and the run-up to the new funding. Do you have to assume 72 hours or two weeks of acute care? I want to stick to the system of the Health Insurance Act as much as possible. As far as I am concerned, we are only going to deviate from that if the circumstances are such that there are virtually no individual control options and the patient's interest, the client, is served by them. Normally we can assume that after 72 hours it is easy to understand what the aid question is and how to get a place in the structural setting. That is the starting point and, where appropriate, it might be possible to derogate from it. We are in the run-up to a new funding system. Mrs Diertens also asked about appropriate transport. Other spokesmen have also drawn attention to this. What is the situation and when does the Secretary of State come up with the structural funding for this? I indicated the intermediate position in the letter of 16 February. There were some holes in it back then. At the end of this year, I want to take stock of the situation, to see how we are going to finance structuralally and what is needed for this. It may be, as I have just indicated in an earlier reply, that it goes through the route of the ambulance law and thus the health insurance company, either via the route of the municipality, or both. But I think it is too early to make harsh statements about how long that funding is going to take shape as it is now. I am also looking for the answer to the question on transport. More questions have been asked about that. In any case, the situation in February with regard to transport is a fact: there are municipalities that still need to get started. The most up-to-date state of affairs, which I can also send to the Chamber if I so wish, is that it is being properly handled in all regions and that there is work being done on a good form of transport everywhere. That is a huge step forward from two months ago, at least from the reporting two months ago. So that gives hope, as I say in the direction of Mr De Lange, that steps can be taken in these areas until 1 October. The map of the Netherlands now shows that everything is being done, that some regions are already very far in it, and that others have just started but have it on the agenda and are going to roll out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u157	If you are talking about structural solutions for transport, what date are you thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u158	The complicated thing is that the ambulance law, which is the responsibility of my colleague, Mr Bruins, is still in the process of being drafted. When it comes to a structural regulation for the transport of people with confused behaviour, I think that this autumn there should be more insight into how we can shape it. But that is not the final picture as far as I am concerned, because I am convinced that different models are possible. I watched my eyes when I saw that in Drenthe such a psycholance can be profitable, because it can carry three different types of clients. That could be a whole different story in another province, in another region. I think that this autumn we will have a great deal of insight into the possibilities, but you are asking me whether there is any clarity about structural funding in the autumn. That also has to do with the preparations for that new ambulance bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u159	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u160	Mr. Chairman. Several spokesmen, including Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks, have asked to work on such a national reporting number. It's 911 in real trouble or a lot of threats. Aren't you supposed to have a song like that for confused behavior? I take the view that in each region there must be a good infrastructure with a notification number, that each region is obliged to set up a notification number that can be set up via different routes, for example via a ggz provider or via the GGD service provider that is accessible to people from the region concerned to report things. The fact is, as is also apparent from the intermediate report of the Switch team, that this has not yet been achieved everywhere. If we are going to set up a national number which cannot yet be properly transferred to the regions, then we are going to cause leaks in the system and then there is such a national number with the hands in the hair and has to say: yes, in that region there should be something, but it is not there. I would therefore like to propose the following. I am doing everything I can to ensure that a good reporting system is put in place in all regions, i.e. at regional level. Then the infrastructure could be ready for a national number. We must then examine whether this still has added value, or whether the regional reporting system is sufficient. I hope that Mrs Voortman will find that a sufficient commitment to take steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u161	I also say that we can hear that from you in second term, Mrs Voortman. It's okay to interrupt. But maybe it doesn't have to be now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u162	I think it sounds interesting in itself. The Secretary of State is absolutely right: you should also be able to transfer to the region. The Secretary of State is still holding open as to whether there should be a national hotline. But can he also indicate what his planning is in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u163	We get several more moments when I come back to the Chamber to tell you what the flag is like. A very logical moment is when the Switch team on October 1 says what the state of affairs is. That seems to me a good time to put the thermometer in and continue this conversation with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u165	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u166	Mrs Voortman also asked: when can we expect the results in terms of secure care arrangements? So how's the secure care coming along? Well, is that settled? By the way, other spokesmen, such as Mrs Agema, have also called for attention to be paid to adequate security of care. The answer to that is as follows. My colleague, the Minister of JenV, and I discussed this with the parties, namely the providers and the health insurers, in the last administrative consultation, in February. They're talking to each other right now to get this right. Next week we'll have another administrative walk-in. We are both reasonably optimistic about the state of play at the moment regarding the purchase of secure beds. We're gonna hear it next week. Our expectations are fairly high. I promise the Chamber that after that administrative consultation we will report on the state of play regarding the purchase of secure beds. In any case, we all feel that, if there is an individual need for a secure bed in a very urgent situation, people should never stand in front of a closed door. Thus, on an individual level, it should be possible to switch between a provider and a health insurance provider to buy a bed if there is a demonstrable need to do so. But we'd rather make sure it's wide-ranging and put it right. Next week we will hear what structural agreements have been made on this subject. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Voortman has also asked whether it is true that the chain field standard has been delayed. She asked when it would be ready. It's true, indeed. The parties working on it have requested two months' delay. This has nothing to do with the complexity of the issue. The expected date of completion of a field standard is now 1 June. That is also in the foreseeable future, but it has indeed slowed down somewhat. (NL) Mr President, I come to the block on the connection with the municipal domain and consularisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u167	In between, is that your third or your fourth block?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u168	This is my third block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u169	Okay. Well, "al"...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u170	Would you like me to talk a little faster, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u171	No, no, no. Please continue quietly. It could only have been the fourth block, but it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u172	Yeah, sorry. So this is about the municipal domain. Mr De Lange specifically asked how the GGD was working in Vught, an approach which was developed in 13 other regions. Is it working to have a chain director in the municipality working? Of course I know that project in Vught. That also deserves to be followed up. There are other promising initiatives in other regions, not necessarily the GGD but another party in charge. I don't want to dictate which party should do that. As far as I'm concerned, it's not a monopoly or something from the GD, no matter how much I love it. I would like to discuss with the parties how we can ensure that specific good examples can be followed more closely. As far as I am concerned, this falls under the category of 'good example does follow well', without prescribing which party should do it. By the way, this is also promoted by ZonMw. There's a special call for that. From the SP Group, the question has arisen as to whether you should not see it much wider. That was also the subject of an interrupting debate. Does this have to do with the reduction of homeless care, the dismantling of beds, the separation of living and care etc.? Shouldn't care in the neighborhood be better before you go to bed-destruct or before you think everything is out of control? And am I willing to stop winding down beds? That was the specific question. It is important to have sufficient outpatient care and support. That is also the bearing thought behind the bed dismantling. Municipalities, insurers and providers in the ggz should work together and make arrangements to give people the care they deserve. As far as I am concerned, the emphasis is on outpatient care. I think Mr Hijink has asked me two questions about this. He also asked if sufficient outpatient care had been purchased. So that is the question when it comes to the 20%. I promise you that I will continue to discuss this with the parties and address them in depth on their responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u173	That has not yet answered the question whether we should stop the further dismantling of beds until we are sure that it will be properly organised and regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u174	I would like to reply that I myself find it irresponsible that someone should be discharged from a clinic without guaranteeing that such a person can be properly taken care of in his neighborhood. And if we have not organised sufficient outpatient care in a municipality, there must be enough in-house beds for people to be able to take care of, because first and foremost, there must be good care. At the same time, I do not want to encourage this development too much, and I do not want to feed it too much, because we have all worked very strongly on the movement of: from the institution and towards the neighborhood, normalizing, giving people a place in the city and seeing them as full fellows. That is the starting point. As soon as that is not the case and they want to transfer someone from an institution to live in the neighborhood when there is no place I have also had to deal with it at that time there can be no question at that time of winding down a bed in that place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u175	Look, we are having this debate because it is not in order right now and there are too many people falling between shore and ship. I think everyone agrees on that. And so you need to see where the problem is and whether it is wise and smart to continue the further decline in the number of beds within settings at the moment we are in the neighbourhood and at home. We are now talking about 20% and about 30%. Shouldn't you say now: watch the place; we'll wait for a little bit further downhill and we'll get it in order before more people end up between shore and ship?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u176	My view is that there is not much more bed dismantling at the moment and that a lot of institutions have said: this is the limit for us; we are setting a line. At the same time, it is still taking place. In doing so, I call on the healthcare provider, which is funded by the Health Insurance Act, and the municipality, which is financed by the Wmo or is responsible for the funding itself, to have the conversation with each other or to put people in a neighbourhood as long as there is no adequate reception.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u177	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u178	As far as I am concerned, this should also be part of, for example, the multi-annual agenda of sheltered housing and social care. Ensure a good infrastructure in a municipality. Also make sure that the conversation is held at those tables between healthcare providers and municipalities: can we fire people while the municipality does not yet have the care in order? In a particular case, you can even make an agreement that the municipality will finance the care provided in an institution, but I do not want to make it a system. Conversely, the ggz provider may also ask to provide care in the district if the municipality does not have funding for it. Mrs Voortman has asked a question about time-out facilities. That help is not always offered. There are people who aren't in a crisis yet, but volunteer themselves. Shouldn't you be giving them the help they're asking for? Yes. The logical answer is yes. We're gonna have to organize that with each other. Time-out facilities are primarily a responsibility of municipalities. It is important that this is included in the treatment plan of ggz patients, so that those time-out facilities are also available if they can be used. That is something we can appeal to congregations. It's not an inpatient ggz. I do not think Mrs Voortman's underlying question was to put them in an institution either. But she does want there to be a provision in a voluntary setting for a time-out and then back into the neighborhood. I may have misunderstood you, Mrs. Voortman. That is how I understood the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u179	Can we do it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u180	It's nice to know if your question has been answered now, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This was partly about time-out facilities, but it is also about situations where there may be recording and where the person himself states that he thinks that this is the best solution. Then it is said: yes, but you are not yet in crisis! It's hard to tell people to pretend to be in crisis. So it also goes a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u182	The tricky thing is that this is a trade-off whereby the conversation between a professional handler, a ggz specialist, and a client takes place. Then I find it very difficult to say from my position as Secretary of State that this or that should happen. What we can use as a starting point is that people should get the help they need, even if they ask for it themselves. Let's see if that can be organized. By the way, in an institution really isn't always the best solution. I keep saying that. Someone who asks to be included in an institution might also be much better helped in the future if we can organise mandatory ggz, so that certain types of treatment can also be offered to people at home who are now only allowed in institutions. But I agree with you: if people have a question of their own, they must, of course, be able to be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u183	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u184	By the way, I think I also answered Mrs Diertens' question, which was in line with that. She was talking about people asking for it herself. Mrs Sazias said that the phasing out of protected housing has gone far too quickly. Interim care is not yet enough. How do we ensure sufficient places in protected living? Just for the record: protected living is a responsibility of municipalities. This went to the municipalities during the decentralisations in 2015. I think it is important that we follow the development of capacity from the Empire, but municipalities are primarily responsible for the number of beds or places. Protected living takes place in different degrees. I see in many municipalities that they live protected under a multi-annual agenda just as much as looking for other types of reception. That, I believe, is what Mrs Sazias is referring to. Sometimes it's also about outpatient assistance. People live independently, via a stepping-up construction for example, and then need lighter support and at some point maybe even no more sheltered living, but forms of guidance. That's what municipalities are working on. In the meantime, municipalities are obliged to keep sufficiently heavy sheltered housing sites in the air, so to speak. I'm having a conversation with the municipalities about that. I can't prescribe that to them, but I can take on their responsibility. Mr. Chairman. I'm actually at block four right now. These are still some loose parts, including waiting times and the labour market. Mr De Lange asked how many concrete plans the cabinet had received from healthcare providers and institutions to reduce waiting lists. What is the role of the IGZ and the NZa in this? For the image: I do not receive any ideas from settings to reduce the waiting lists. That conversation must take place at the table between the providers and the health insurance companies. I follow that with more than usual attention, I must say. Especially after last week's disappointing mid-term report by the NZa, about which I sent a letter, I did tighten the screws a bit. I think that is what Mr De Lange is referring to. I said that the supervisor on the one hand, the NZa, must ensure that the health insurance companies comply with their duty of care. On the other hand, I wonder whether the IGJ, who should supervise the healthcare providers, should not be sitting on top of it a little bit more. I talked to them about that. I think we should keep the roles clean. I am not going to give them any clues in the vein of: Thou shalt! It's their own responsibility. The conclusion of our conversation was that they're going to do more. The NZa has promised me to test health insurance companies individually on whether they comply with the care obligation. Of course, the NZa has a sanctioning instrument if there is obvious negligence on the part of a health insurance provider, but that is the final part. We should go to a culture in which a visit by the NZa alone leads to a toothing and purchasing sufficient care, if sufficiently substantiated. We also say to the healthcare providers: build up your plans well for your care and look further than the nose of your organisation is long. I appeal to them to make the waiting list available to their organization. It's done through the Vektis system. For clients, for fellow providers and for health insurers, this makes it clear how long the waiting lists are. In the case of registration alone, the waiting period is often greatly exceeded. It is therefore necessary to consider whether some people on the waiting list should not simply be referred to a colleague provider who does have an offer. That's what I'm talking to the IGJ about. I have told the IGJ that having waiting lists should actually be taken into account in the test or provide providers with sufficient quality. I am not saying that a provider with a waiting list scores less in terms of quality. It is about the situation that an organisation can be proven to have a waiting list and is not intensively involved in waiting-list mediation. Such an organisation then does not point health insurance companies and clients to being at work and does not say: make sure that some clients go to another provider. If that is the case, I believe that the IGJ should act against it and be more able to use it to monitor it. This may, for example, lead to increased supervision in some cases. I assure you, no provider wants enhanced oversight. So there's a sharper look. As far as I am concerned, we need to get a little more focused on it by now. If we agree on this, I hope that this will trigger a movement which will help to reduce the waiting lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u185	Thanks to the Secretary of State for bringing me here. Previously, we have asked from the Permanent Chambers Committee to report on the meeting you have. You indicate what you told the settings last week. I am curious to hear the response from the ggz sector when you indicated that you wanted to see progress and start carrying out your inspections in order to make that progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u186	Let me get this straight. I went to a conference last week where waiting lists were central. I think that was not organized by VWS, but by the market. I talked to them there, but I also want to talk to them when I invite them. That conversation has yet to take place. I would also like to speak individually to all those involved who have signed the agreements with Minister Schippers in order to be able to address them on their responsibility. So from all sides, I'm indicating how urgent I think this is. The first reaction to the conference I was in last week and in bilateral contacts that have been there by now is that people are aware of the urgency. One also admits sometimes to having let it go too long. Sometimes there is the behavior of looking at the other. That's what I want to break and say, boys, take your responsibilities. When I hear a provider say "let us address each other on responsibilities" at such a conference, I am the first to applaud. I do. Sometimes there's a sign of recognition that it needs a tooth harder. Sometimes there's the old mechanism of: look at him. That's what I want to break through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u187	I very much agree with you that time has passed from looking at someone else and not solving it. I can't do that anymore. You indicated that the Health and Youth Inspectorate could make more a link between waiting lists and actual quality. What is the response if you confront the institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u188	I haven't heard it from their own mouths yet, but I understand that GGZ Netherlands wasn't applauding that idea. But I do insist on that proposal. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u189	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u190	Mr. Chairman. Mr Hijink has asked: you see people on the streets who do not receive adequate help, how come there is money left? Let's get the picture. When it is said to health insurance companies "you have 288 million on the shelf" they say "we don't have that." Actually, it is. It is also the fact that there is that budgetary space in the macro estimates. So VWS gives permission to spend that money. This would lead to a premium increase, but if that means that we have good help, then that's fine. Well, I guess I'll have to. That requires that there are well-founded plans. So there is a budget space of 288 million and it can be used, but that money is not on a shelf of: put it in. This also leads to a premium increase. Space is there. You may be wondering how that was used. The last scan shows that this year, even after pressure from our side, an additional 109 million has been purchased. We're analyzing what's going on, because we want to know what elements this procurement is in. Is there also a price index, for example, or is there more purchase of outpatient care? We still have to analyze that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u191	I am glad that the Secretary of State brings up the 288 million, but I am very surprised to hear the word 'premium increase' right here. We remember that last year there was a macro budget in which it was underused and that it would be written on the bar. If I hear the word "premium increase," I'm completely stunned, I might add.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u192	Can you ask one more question, or are you too stunned?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u193	Perhaps too bewildered to do so, but at least I'd like to get a little more explanation from the Secretary of State. How did he get the word "premium increase"? Apparently, there is as much as 109 million extra spent........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Can he give you another reason for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u194	The latter is, of course, a consequence of the fact that it is a question of contracting between health insurers and healthcare providers. VWS doesn't get to see all those contracts, but that doesn't change the fact that we're asking for insight into the distribution. What exactly was it spent on? So that's being analyzed further now. The answer to your first question is that it is, unless I am in a very confused situation, but I will come back to it in the second term. But my view is that, within the framework of the budget, there is room for that money to be used and that the health insurance companies say: we are not yet using it, and if we do so, this will lead to a slight increase in the premium. But if I'm wrong, then we have a little bit in the evening to come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u195	We'll see about that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u196	Mr. Chairman. Mrs van der Berg asked about this regional perseverance. Are we getting a picture of that? It is also mentioned in the coalition agreement. We are now seriously considering how we can possibly fill that out. I do so in consultation with MIND, who has put forward this idea, namely how can we use this perseverance force at regional level? The central question here is also a question from Mrs Voortman and Mrs Diertens..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We're going to answer that question and I think I'll inform the Chamber about how we're going to use it around the summer. It is also an assignment from the coalition agreement and I take it seriously. I think I have talked about the 288 million and I think I can conclude the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u197	If you want to draw that conclusion, I won't stop you. Thank you very much. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Justice and Security. He's given me an indication of how long he thinks he's talking. That was about 15 minutes. So it's also up to you, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u198	Mr. Chairman. It is of course a pity that the tension of my story, at least timewise, has already been given away. I'll start with a very positive appreciation. It is gratifying to see that the municipalities and other partners are making a broad effort to achieve a good, working person-oriented approach to the subject of what is going to be called "confused persons." I believe that vulnerable people should be given extra attention in order to gain security in society and to be able to move safely in society. "Security" in the name of our Ministry, Justice and Security, is also that the individual citizen can indeed be safe in society and move around. The sense of urgency about the problem is felt by all the partners working on it. I think it is good to have said out loud that it is important to carry on with it well and constructively. The Switch team deserves to be congratulated on the way it has progressed in recent times. The subject is on the agenda and good initiatives are emerging throughout the country. Municipalities and other partners work hard to achieve a well-functioning personalised approach. The early warning, a personalised approach to complex cases and a strong network of assistance and support in the district are essential. That's what you keep hearing the police say. Because I wanted to have a good idea of the problem myself, I made several work visits and saw for myself how hard work is being done on this task throughout the country. I have also seen how important it is that early signals are picked up by the nearest ones, and that those close to them also know where to deal with their concerns. The Health and Safety Houses reflect cooperation on complex issues between care, safety and the social domain. With a few Care and Safety Houses, we develop a personalised approach for persons with a severe psychiatric condition. The starting point is: do what is necessary, in the short and long term, and invest in training and knowledge sharing to help professionals do their important work well. What are we gonna do? Together with colleague Blokhuis van VWS, I in turn continue to support the Switch team and the municipalities in their work as well as possible. I do this, among other things, by working to solve national bottlenecks. For example, I have promised the Switch team that we will extend the mission of the JenV-funded sergeant transport. Bringing the worlds of care and security together is the biggest challenge. Cooperation is possible, but we need to lean closer to each other. A country-wide approach, which may not have been fully implemented in October, is also very important in the coming months, to ensure that there is a foundation for municipalities and their partners to build on firmly throughout the country on 1 October 2018. Mr. Chairman. I have been asked a few questions. One question is about the police, and one about information sharing. The question about the police came from Mr. Hijink of the SP. He wondered if district agents would be less able to get a picture of vulnerable people by now. Let me start by pointing out that there are no fewer district agents. With a 99% occupation, the police are in good shape in that respect. The early warning and prevention aspect has been given full attention by the police and police training. Early warning is one of the activities of all district agents at the level of neighbourhoods and neighborhoods. Police training has a module in the field of social psychiatric problems. The police continuously examine whether training needs to be updated or updated in response to new developments. Particular attention is paid to the global recognition of diseases, de-escalating behaviour, the involvement of experience and the repertoire of action resulting from new laws or regulations. Work is also under way to improve the so-called IBT, the Integral Professional Skills Training. This concerns de-escalating behaviour in confused behaviour and the development of tailor-made training in the regions. The need for additional expertise in the emergency rooms has also been addressed. This is part of the development of the preliminary, national model notification, which will be tested in 2018. The training of the police does not, of course, provide for the care of severely psychiatric patients. That requires specialist care. Mr Hijink also suggested that the police should continue to come if necessary. Well, it goes without saying that the police will come if they need to. All involved partners in the Switch Team are working hard to ensure that there is no gap if the police reduce the transport of people with confused behaviour who have not committed a criminal offence. Then there's the information sharing. Mr De Lange wanted to know what legal obstacles exist. First of all, there is often uncertainty among professionals about what data can be shared with whom. Sometimes a lack of knowledge about privacy leads to a disruption of cooperation. Last year, the Handle Data Sharing in the care and security domain was developed and trainings have been developed on the basis of this workout to remove the embarrassment for professionals in the care and security domain. They're being given right now. In addition, my Ministry and other departments, Home Affairs, VWS and Social Affairs and Employment are currently working on data exchange legislation. The persistent signals about unclear information exchange on the one hand and the lack of opportunities on the other are, of course, dealt with. It also identifies whether, and if so, what legal obstacles exist in fulfilling the municipal management role in early warning and in integral works. It is taken up under the Social Domain Programme, a cooperation between municipalities and departments. I expect that this will be more clear in autumn 2018 and the Chamber will be informed about the results so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u199	One moment, please, there is an interruption by Mr De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u200	Thank you for the Minister's answer that we are looking at and examining where the obstacles are. I still wonder what you think of the statement that it is strange that care and security parties experience, at least now, that they can exchange bad information with each other, whereas, in fact, all these parties operate in some way under a form of a ministry oath. Couldn't that be a solution to see how maximum information could be exchanged?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u201	This could be taken into account in the discussions that are taking place now, but I think that we should manage the expectations well in this respect. Of course, it has not been said that in that cooperation everyone who sits in it always has an oath of office at that time. I would like to say out loud that I think your point will certainly be raised in the discussions between the ministries. But whether it's really the panacea or a very important drug, I'm very careful about that. In any case, I think that the most important thing is that we quickly remove the barriers to information sharing. That brings me to your question. I think that's what this is about. Hence the different trajectories there are. In this context, my ministry is also looking very clearly at the obstacles that exist, and especially at the obstacles to fulfilling the municipal leadership role in early warning and in integrated work. However, that is being taken up in the framework of the Social Domain Programme I mentioned. In addition, a data sharing tool in the criminal justice chain is being developed with partners in the criminal justice chain. This includes trainings, a practical tool and so on. That's what there is, if it's okay, for the summer. By identifying the working process and the legal basis for data sharing, it is shown whether there are any bottlenecks in the legislation and regulations. Finally, another research by PwC will be commissioned by the Security Houses Rotterdam-Rijnmond and Tilburg. The aim is to identify whether there are still legal obstacles to the establishment of knowledge nodes within a municipality or in the cooperation between the judiciary and municipalities. Those knowledge nodes include the early assessment of risks based on a risk assessment tool notification or by requesting information from chain partners. It's quite a sentence, but it's what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u202	Thank you so much for picking this up. Last Monday I spoke to a city Marine in Capelle aan den IJssel. It will be very pleased that steps are being taken to address these issues and to improve the exchange of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u203	Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u204	I'm afraid I've stayed in time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u205	You always surprise me, in a positive way. Thank you. This brings to an end the first term of office of the directors. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. There is. You have one minute and twenty seconds according to the rules of this house. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the number of persons exhibiting confused behaviour has increased;]] [[Whereas people do not appear to be in crisis, but need voluntary acute inclusion to prevent their situation from getting worse or coming into crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how often people who request acute voluntary admission are rejected and how to ensure that they receive the help they need and inform the Chamber of 1 July 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-397]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u207	In my first term, I also referred to the national reporting number. I agree with the Secretary of State that you must first make sure that regional infrastructure is in order, otherwise you will get people to call the national number and still not be able to get anywhere. The Secretary of State undertook to return to us before 1 October on the question of whether there should be a national hotline from that regional infrastructure. To be honest, I think that should be the case, but I do not think that it makes sense to table a motion on this now. Finally. The 288 million could not now be used because this would lead to a higher premium. I honestly don't understand. I would find it strange or difficult to do so in the second term, so I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he could explain that in writing. I think that's the best way to understand what's going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u208	Thank you. Mr Hijink then has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this debate, it would have been nice if we could have looked at the causes of the problem we are actually discussing today, people who, against their will, end up on the streets with confused behavior. We could have made it clear that we cannot make endless cuts in the public sector without having very serious consequences. If you don't give people with dementia a place in a nursing home, you let them end up on the street. If you don't let a neighborhood cop be the ears and eyes of a neighborhood, he doesn't know his pappenheimers anymore. I see time is ticking out way too fast, so I'm gonna make it quick. As far as the SP is concerned, it is also not acceptable that the number of beds in the ggz should now be reduced while we all see and know that care and care in the neighbourhood are not in order. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that 20% of the beds in ggz institutions have been completed since 2012 and that this phasing-out is continuing;]] [[noting that according to the Trimbos Institute, the construction of facilities in the district is lagging behind;]] [[calls on the government to stop the winding-up of beds until the facilities in the district are in order,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-398]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u210	Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the importance of the Switch team has been demonstrated in this debate. I was hoping to get a commitment on extending the Switch team. At least the Secretary of State is going to investigate. I have a motion to support him on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of incidents reported with persons exhibiting confused behavior continues to increase;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control,]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the deployment of the Switch Team can be extended,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-399]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u211	Thank you, Mr President. As I said, we would like to hear the details of the 288 million. If Mrs Voortman says it might be more convenient in writing, we would like to join in. But we'd like to know all the details of that. For our part, we have discussed the importance we attach to regional perseverance and also the need for greater convergence between the different regions. That's why we've got the next few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipal approaches are confused behaviour, that there is a regional approach waiting lists and that there are regions for the first 72 hours of ggz crisis care;]] [[noting that these are not all the same regions and this makes cooperation in the GGZ chain more difficult;]] [[Considering that people with a ggz problem benefit from a unified chain approach that is consistent with each other so as to avoid as far as possible problems of alignment;]] [[calls on the Government and Health Insurance Institutions Netherlands and VNG to identify the issues to be agreed on at regional level and to call on those parties to ensure that those agreements are made and implemented,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government agreement states that if it appears that the current agreements to shorten waiting lists in the ggz are not working properly, we shall take additional measures, such as the organisation of a regional perseverance force, if necessary;]] [[noting that the deadline of 1 July to bring the ggz intake and treatment within the threshold standards is not going to be met;]] [[noting that the government states that an investigation will be carried out into the implementation of the regional perseverance power;]] [[Whereas it is in the interests of people with (acute) ggz problems and their families to receive timely help in order to avoid further escalation of the problem;]] [[calls on the Government to speed up the examination of the regional transfer power and the Chamber for the summer of the results of this study and to inform the follow-up actions to organise regional transfer power,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-400]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-401]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u212	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank both directors for the answers. I am glad that at least the urgency is widely shared, that the period until 1 October is going to be well used in all kinds of ways and that we are even going to look at how very concrete steps can be taken with a group to ultimately give these people the right care. Then I have another motion on the waiting lists. I am tabling this motion on behalf of my colleague Mrs van den Berg of the CDA. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the arrangements for waiting times in mental health care (ggz) are unlikely to be within the threshold standards by 1 July 2018;]] [[noting that agreements on the reduction of waiting times and the achievement of a coherent consular approach for people with confused behaviour are not complied with;]] [[noting that in recent years there has always been a lack of financial resources;]] [[having noted that 288 million was made available last year for the elimination of waiting times in ggz and outpatient care;]] [[noting that the Health and Youth Inspectorate i.o. (IGJ) should monitor safe and qualitative good care, such as an adequate referral to other ggz providers, and that the Dutch Healthcare Authority (NZa) should monitor the compliance of insurers with the obligation of care;]] [[Whereas agreements with the ggz do not result in structural results and therefore do not give people the care they need;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[the IGJ i.o. and to force the NZa to comply with the previous agreements;]] [[inform the Chamber of the AO Ggz about the concrete instruments used by IGJ i.o. and to use the NZa to maintain the quality of the ggz;]] [[to make clear the bottlenecks surrounding the plans and their funding regarding the approach to waiting lists and the procurement of outpatient care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Lange and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-402]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not have any motions, but thank you for the commitment that has now been shown to achieve a great deal before 1 October. It's complicated. A lot of organisations need to work together. I do have one more question. I like that the Secretary of State wants to get to work with the involvement of family and neighbors. But more specifically, how is he going to raise that little 24% of the next of kin who is now involved in dealing with people with confused behavior? I just want to leave that question open here. Then I'd like to get back to it in an AO. And yes, there are many regions that need to work together. In other words, the institutions in these regions must work together in varying compositions. I conclude from conversations that there are still many barriers to be overcome. Perhaps the Secretary of State could encourage the need to look outwards and solve problems together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u214	Thank you very much. Finally, Mrs Agema has the floor. He doesn't need it. This puts an end to the second term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes. So that's until 10:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u215	We shall then be granted the second term by the rulers. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I refer to the six motions that have been tabled, first of all to the motion for a resolution by Mr Voortman on part No. 397 on voluntary admission. I understand that there is a need to get that insight, but we do not have that insight at the moment. I wouldn't know how to get it either. So I would actually like to propose the following. Give me time to see if we can get that insight at all, because that route doesn't exist right now. So I'd like to see if I can meet that need at all. Then I would like to talk to you about the desirability. But give me until June or so the time to show whether it can be done at all, because at least now that infrastructure is not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u217	I'm fine with holding the motion. We've had a discussion before about "February 1st" or February 1st," so I'd like to hear a little more specific about what he means.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u218	June 30th.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u219	June 30th. He's gonna sit right in the back! Well, let's go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u220	At the request of Mrs Voortman, I propose her motion (25424, No. 397). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u221	The operative part of the Heink motion in part No. 398 says stop cutting down beds until facilities in the neighborhood are in order. We exchanged words about this in the first term. It's very generic when we do that across the board. The operation has been initiated. Meanwhile, there is pressure on both the healthcare providers, who have to arrange the outpatient care in the district, and municipalities, who need to have the infrastructure in order. I want to keep pressure on that. As far as I am concerned, the starting point is for us to continue the bed-breaking and build up good outpatient assistance. Those must be communicating vessels. I repeat what I said in my first term: where appropriate, municipalities and healthcare providers should talk to each other if it is proven that someone is being expelled from an institution when there is no proper, adequate care in the neighbourhood. As far as I'm concerned, the verdict is "dissuade." In her motion in part No. 399 asks Mrs Sazias to investigate whether the Switch team can stay at work longer. We talked about that, too. I'm looking into that, because that's one of the variants. In that sense, I would say that the motion is superfluous, but I do not think we should give that qualification any more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u222	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u223	It's in line with what I want, so I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. It's in line with what I want, so I won't be ridden in the wheels when that motion is passed. In the Van den Berg motion in part No. 400 is asked to appoint with healthcare insurers the Netherlands and the VNG subjects on which agreements can be made at regional level and to call on the parties to ensure that these agreements are made and implemented. I would like to leave this motion to the House. I do not see any harm in it, but in itself this is in line with what we are doing. The motion in part No. 401 is about the regional perseverance. I'm gonna give you a summer's notice on how to fill it out. I myself intended to inform the Chamber at the next report of the NZa. That is before the summer, so I think we can respond to what is being asked here and leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the operative part of the motion in part No. 402 is quite a compelling thing, namely that the IGJ government should be set up and should be forced to act and enforce agreements. That's pretty strong, forcing and pushing. I would like to refer to the interpretation of the operative part of this motion. I've tried to indicate in the first term how I'm talking to IGJ and NZa about that. In substance, I think we agree, but if it says "forceful action," I would like to explain it within the context of the statutory tasks of both IGJ and NZa as well as the cabinet, i.e. between VWS and services. With that remark, I can leave the judgement to the Chamber, because we agree on the substance. I just don't want to sit in the chair of services. We also have very complicated discussions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u224	That sounds like a good explanation to me. I also like rolling resistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u225	It is, of course, quite different from the text, as I see it. It is therefore perhaps a suggestion to amend the motion in the way the Secretary of State interprets it. I think that gives a little more clarity to the outside world. That's what you're gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u226	That's what we're looking at. Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u227	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u228	Mr. Chairman. I have had the motions, but there are two more questions. I can go into that very briefly. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u229	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u230	Because Mrs Diertens has asked a question about involving family and relatives. In answer to that, I would like to say two things. Its importance is shared by the cabinet. I think that, in terms of the implementation of important tasks such as sheltered housing and social care, municipalities are the move. We are in consultation with municipalities on what this multiannual agenda should look like. I promise to make this point very clear in that context. We already have a very important part to play in this. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that in the law on compulsory ggz, the family, the closest concerned, have a very heavy voice in the chapter on the treatment of clients. In that sense, I believe that the law has already been legally secured, or is yet to come into force, and that there is plenty of attention to be paid to the things that Mrs Dierten is calling attention to. Then I come to the complex issue of financing, to the 288 million. The picture is that the macro framework, the financial framework available, is broad. There's that 288 million euros in there. Within that framework, health insurers may contract. If they use that 288 million, that could lead to a premium increase. It is as simple as that, because there are more expenses on the part of the health insurance companies. The health insurers look at effectiveness, efficiency. They want to buy care that they know is good care. But it is not that the 288 million was not used because the health insurance companies say: we do not want a premium increase or anything like that. There is really no such causal link. The fact is that if the entire framework is completed, this could lead to an increase in the premium.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u231	Perhaps we have been wrong all along, but we are really surprised that a premium increase has just come out of the sky that has not been discussed in the debates on this issue either. So we'd still like an explanation on this. Because what we are particularly concerned about is this. If it is said that 288 million would lead to a premium increase, and we hear from the Secretary of State in the previous letter that 109 million has already been spent, does that mean that there will automatically be a premium increase, because 109 million has been spent? We don't even know what it was spent on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u232	I'll see what the Secretary of State's reaction to that is. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u233	If the Chamber asks for a letter, we know who's in charge here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u234	That's how we like it here. But that still brings Mr. Hijink to an interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u235	We are also assuming that if the Ministry fixes the calculation premium in the summer and the insurer then fixes the actual premium in the autumn, these amounts will simply be part of it. At least, on that assumption, I am. So I find it strange to hear that, if a certain amount is not spent, that suddenly leads to... You're going to have some really weird changes in the amount of the premium, when it's supposed to be pre-established? I therefore very much support the request made to the Secretary of State to make it quite clear in a letter that it is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u236	I think the question remains as to when the Chamber could receive that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u237	I think that should work within two weeks, because it's just an explanation of how it works. In reply to Mr Hijink, it is true that there is sometimes a slight difference between the premium paid by VWS and the premiums paid by health insurance companies. That has some causal connection with this theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u238	Thank you. That's it for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u239	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u240	Then I'll take a look at the minister. He doesn't need a second term. This puts an end to the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-11.u241	Then I would like to say that the motions that have been tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday, 24 April. I would like to thank the directors, their officials, for their broad support and, of course, for the Members and all those who have followed this debate. I wish you a good evening and close the meeting.
