ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mr R.F.M. Lubbers. I ask you all to stand up. On Wednesday 14 February last, at the age of 78, Ruud Lubbers, Minister of State and former Prime Minister of the Netherlands died. In the last quarter of the twentieth century, our country's politics were largely determined by its business no-nonsense approach. At the same time, he was also very committed and binding, to the very heart of his being convinced that it will only succeed "if we get to work together." The latter was certainly not always self-evident at the time. Rudolphus Franciscus Marie Lubbers was born on 7 May 1939 in Rotterdam in a Catholic entrepreneurial family. He attended the Jesuits' secondary school at the Canisius College in Nijmegen and studied economics from 1957 to 1962 at the Dutch Economic Hogeschool in Rotterdam. He graduated cum laude. After his sudden death in 1963, he and a brother took over the leadership of his father's construction workshop and machine factory in Krimpen to den IJssel. Within the Catholic People's Party he belonged to the wing of the Christian radicals, but at the time of the separation of the PPR in 1968 he remained loyal to the KVP. The Netherlands met Mr Lubbers in the 1970s as a young, flamboyant Minister for Economic Affairs during the oil crisis. In 1977 he became a member of the House of Representatives, and in 1978 he suddenly became chairman of his party, the CDA. In this capacity, he had to connect the different currents from which the CDA had emerged and also build bridges between the government-minded majority and a dissident section within his group. The acrobatics that required this would have helped to develop some wooliness in his language. A few years later, in 1982, Ruud Lubbers became Prime Minister during the most serious economic crisis in decades. The unemployment rate was around 10% when he arrived. The austerity measures he and his ministers took met with great protests. Bus drivers and garbage men stopped, and the fire department shot the Binnenhof white out of protest. Politics and society were very divided among the measures resulting from the Wassenaar Agreement. Employers and employees closed this down, but Lubbers was closely involved. A year later, the economy attracted, after which employment began to grow. The role of Ruud Lubbers in this "Dutch miracle" has been unmistakable. He was internationally called Ruud Shock. In an interview in 2011, he looked back at that period: "For me, the most important thing is the decision to tackle the problem of the economy well in 1982 (...) after a number of years of economic zigzag policy and to reduce the budget deficit and unemployment. (...) I also see this as a revenge on myself to be steadfast and to remain firm, something that I, as a young minister of economic affairs in the Den Uyl cabinet, have sometimes missed." From the international-political context, the Netherlands was also in severe weather in the 1980s. The intention of the first Lubbers cabinet to place nuclear weapons on Dutch territory resulted in massive demonstrations. His courage in entering into the discussion with opponents and his steadfastness forced respect, as well as his efforts to find an acceptable solution internationally. The imminent end of the Cold War meant that the placement did not have to find any passage. Mr. Lubbers liked to come to the First Chamber, he underlined Mr. Thurlings during the farewell in September 1983 of then President of the Chamber, because of the "tradition of hoofness, wisdom and care." The three Cabinets-Lubbers, two of CDA and VVD, and one of CDA and PvdA, had greater support from politically related groups in the First Chamber than in recent years for Cabinets. Nevertheless, it was often very exciting whether or not a bill would make it. Memorable are the clashes he had with the Upper House during his third reign. Where many of the prime ministers before and after him were confronted with opponents in the opposition, Lubbers had to deal with his own party, with group chairman Kaland acting as the controller of power. For example, the CDA's First Chamber hardly agreed to increase the rent margin. The Prime Minister's word of power was needed for this. These clashes provoked Lubbers in January 1990 to comment that the First Chamber should not reject legislative proposals on political grounds. The First Chamber should not have the tendency to do the work of the Second Chamber again. In the best tradition of the First Chamber, he was interpelled by Senator Schuurman of the RPF. Lubbers indicated that he did not see the position of the First Chamber as problematic. He didn't deny the Chamber the right to say no to a bill. He concluded that there must be a healthy form of dualism. The question of whether a cabinet could only ask the portfolio question once a period, he did not wish to answer in the affirmative. "But," I quote, "it is a joint responsibility to avoid as much as possible these painful situations." Ruud Lubbers' premiership lasted until 1994. During this unprecedented period, he also gained international prestige. His influence was great when the Maastricht Treaty was drawn up. In both national and international politics, he was very inventive in making compromise proposals and finding solutions to difficult problems. His international action and dealings with other government leaders have helped to ensure that the position of the Dutch Prime Minister in international traffic, despite Dutch state law, has continued to gain considerable significance. The transfer of power within his own party was not entirely flawless in 1994. There was a unique coalition of other political composition, but Lubbers' style remained recognizable in the targeted approach to social issues. Lubbers himself remained very active in the years after his premiership, including as UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Professor of Globalisation, Chairman of the Netherlands Organisation for Applied Science Research, of the Advisory Council International Questions and of Clingendael. In 2010 we saw him as an informant at the Binnenhof. Ruud Lubbers was a very talented, unique and driven politician, whose contribution to Dutch society and the place of the Netherlands in the world has been of particular value. We therefore commemorate him today with the greatest respect. May this respect and great appreciation for his merits for our country be to support his wife, children, grandchildren, further family, and friends. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-3.u2	Madam President. Former Prime Minister Lubbers once said: "To move into people you need both your head and your heart. And in Dutch relations you also need the institution to find agreement, with a solemn word: to achieve consensus." In this short passage he describes himself strikingly here. Ruud Lubbers was a man of the head and heart. A man who had internalized the consensus and compromise so much that it had become a second nature. A man with a true and profound interest in society. Ruud Lubbers has been of enormous importance to the Netherlands and Europe. His political career developed rapidly: from very young minister, to group chairman of the CDA, to Prime Minister. That was because he was a born driver, with an energetic creativity for finding solutions to issues, but also that authentic interest in the public business. The route of ruler to the Chambers is not easy for every ego to take, but for him it was self-evident. Hans van Mierlo said: "He was touched by the public cause, by the exciting, the exciting, the responsible." Ruud Lubbers then became the prime minister who needed the Netherlands at the time. The high unemployment rate and the high funding deficit made far-reaching cuts and reforms inevitable. He was decisive in that and that changed the image that existed until then. He could look at that himself with some relativization. I quote: "Then the image turns around. The woolly man becomes too hard a man. But was that man really that different? No, I don't think so. He was alone in a different position." Outside, Ruud Lubbers was a rational man. But inside it was idealism. In his childhood with the Jesuits he developed a world view, namely of people on the road together and of politics as part of a larger history. It became the guiding principle that history, that worldview.... in his political life. It meant that he could relativize, that he continued to see the bigger perspectives and that the compromise was ultimately more important than his own equal. He himself said: "It is not just about preventing quarrels; it is also about saying: yes I see your concern, your anger, your resentment that something is not right. But you must also see the other side, what others say about it and the repulsiveness of matter. And then let's see what we can do about it together." What can we do with each other and then how do we get out together? That question was very much raised in the protests, Madam President, and you referred to it as 'Cruise missiles'. He himself saw it as one of the most important issues of his term of office, eventually succeeded in preventing a rift in society. Ruud Lubbers became the longest serving Dutch Prime Minister. Yet after twelve years he still saw himself as a passer-by in the Tower. He was and remained a man who was always looking for relativization, even when it was about himself. He also said: "I have made the Netherlands more boring." If by that he means more stable, I agree with him. But Lubbers also enriched the Netherlands. Yeah, with his creative language. With the beauty of the compromise. With its inexhaustible source of solutions to small and large problems. Ruud Lubbers was, as someone wrote, the uncrowned king of synthesis. Madam President. Today we commemorate a great statesman. A man who was touched by the public cause and served this in full his entire life. A man who put that life into service to the greater good. A man who has brought our country a great deal. We remember him with the deepest respect. His wife, children, grandchildren, further family, friends I wish to bear the strength to bear this great loss.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-3.u3	I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
