ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on foreign financing of mosques. I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and the Minister for Legal Protection. The foreign minister just landed. As you know, he was in America. He'll be here in 15 minutes, hopefully. I suggest we just start the debate. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I feel like I'm being fooled. That's what I really have to say today. We are talking here today about undesirable foreign funding of mosques, a subject that a very large part of this Chamber has been dealing with for many years, from the SP to the Christian Union, from the CDA to D66. And from the left to the right, this Chamber says: we do not want dubious funding from abroad, which must be restricted. We do not want to explain the red carpet for unfree ideologies. Foreign funding is undesirable if it is antidemocratic, if it is anti-integrative and if it stimulates intolerant behaviour. We need to tackle this kind of funding in such a way that it strengthens relations with the Islamic communities. Dutch Muslims must be able to exercise their faith freely without any extremist ideas being imported from the Gulf States. Mr. Chairman. This is why I feel led astray. I have been in this Chamber so many times before Minister Asscher, who then really gave the impression of sharing our concerns and getting to work on them. That is precisely why I find the recent revelations of Nieuwsuur and NRC so unheard of. Because the image that was sketched by former Minister Asscher was: information is shared, there is full participation in the WODC investigation and a covenant will be concluded. But that image just doesn't seem to be true. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het was "ja" zeggen maar "nee" doen.]] Take the view that the government and mosque domes will work towards voluntary agreements that are laid down in a covenant. This is referred to as too optimistic on second thought. I do not think that is too optimistic, I think that was really wishful thinking. That's worrying, and I want to illustrate that with a case. It shows why this sharing of information with the municipalities is so crucial. Take the Al-Fath mosque in Dordrecht. Several times with Saudi money, $88,000 at a time. And after these transfers, salafistic preachers pop up on those jihadist warriors and warn those women that they will burn in hell if they don't cover their bodies enough. And the Dordt city council wasn't informed. It was not until November 2017 that this obsolete list was shared with the municipalities. I would like to ask the Minister: can he explain what consequences this has had for the local situation in Dordrecht and now support the Ministry to deal with this? Mr. Chairman. I think this is very clear. This isn't a pretty picture, it has to be better. That is why my group, the D66 Group, today has three calls. Firstly, a new independent study of the financial flows. The previous investigation has been counterproductive. Information was not shared voluntarily. Contacts with Gulf states were held back. The Ministry gave very limited access to its own ambassadors. And all this reminds me, Madam President, of other, earlier official influences on WODC investigations. And I do not agree with that, especially since the cabinet cannot rule out the fact that organisations from Saudi Arabia have been financed since 2015, for example. Two Gulf States do not actively share information. So my question to the Foreign Minister is: would such a new investigation not be necessary? To add some strength to that question, I am considering a motion on that. Call 2: the implementation of the coalition agreement is crucial here. Quickly come up with legislation on mandatory transparency on funding flows. Quickly come up with measures to reduce unwanted funding that abuses our freedoms and society. I really want to appeal to these two ministers who are here. Finally, call 3: improve this cooperation with municipalities. As far as information is concerned, it is crucial for local administrators to have all the knowledge they need. Whether a separate law is needed for that, I wonder. I think that is above all a matter of doing so. But how is that going to be effectively designed? And action is needed, opportunities for action for the municipalities. I saw a proposal from the CDA and the Christian Union to look at the Bibob. That could be interesting. I would also like to ask Minister Koolmees: should we not consider in a general sense the legal bases by which municipalities can disrupt this kind of undesirable activity? Should these legal bases not be extended? Or is it more about information about what is not already possible? Mr President, I would like to comment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Despite fierce opposition from various governments in a row, it has now been proven that there are mosques in the Netherlands that receive money from what are called "unfree countries" in concealing terms. Of course, it means Islamic countries, but of course the fear of the coalition and of a large part of the opposition do not dare to say that. Because then you play Wilders in the cards, and secondly, there is of course the fear for the own part of the Islamic supporters. There are, of course, a few things that need to be clear to talk about on this subject, otherwise there will be no point in a debate. What exactly is a mosque? I'll explain it to you briefly. Mosques are the basic infrastructure of Islam. In a mosque, Muslims of Islam come together, often under the guidance of a professional Muslim to be taught there in the Qur'an, in the traditions and course of their example Muhammad and to learn how to live according to that example of Muhammad. That happens in every mosque, or else it wouldn't be a mosque. Each mosque contributes to the submission of the world to Islam. That is Muhammad's mission. If they didn't, it wouldn't be a mosque. Every mosque is also a political center, otherwise it would not be a mosque. And Muhammad's example to be observed is not a model of reciprocity, not a model of integration with other cultures or ideas. It is not a model of democracy and it is certainly not a model of tolerance. Everything other than Muhammad's ideas must be subjugated, enslaved and otherwise murdered. Very sometimes, very sometimes you can live, but with a status lower than a pet. You have to work very hard for your ruler and pay a lot of money for the rest of your life. That's how it works. Islam has no covenants. The great example is murder, manslaughter, rape, women's hatred, homophobia, hatred of Jews and Christians, apostate hatred, paedophilia, you know. And the Qur'an is full of orders to the Muslims to follow all of this. Mr. Chairman. After the explanation, in every mosque the same is said. The problem is not only salafism or a salafistic mosque, or jihadist fundamentalist radical extremism, as is the superb stairs of Islamic cloaking language. No, the problem is Islam itself. Islam is radical in itself and I have just made that clear. I would like to ask the Ministers who are on the left whether they have made this a bit of knowledge in the meantime, and if not, why not? Is Fawaz Jneid a problem? Yes, of course. He laughs at us all; he laughs at you all. But he teaches Muslims exactly the same as all the other professional Muslims do in all those other mosques. Otherwise, it's not a mosque. Otherwise, they're all renegade. And what's on apostasy in Islam? Death penalty. Any party that refuses to speak in covert language and the truth about Islam is in fact already subject. They act like they're dealing with a problem here: foreign finance. Of course that is a problem, because those mosques should not be financed at all. But by just talking about that or just about salafism as a problem... The Marcouch trap they all fell for, if you fall for it, you are a co-causer of the Islam problem we have in the Netherlands. If we really want to do something about problematic mosques, we will have to close them all down, because every mosque is a similar problem for the Netherlands and the rest of the free world. Do the ministers share this view? If not, explain. Mr. Chairman. If we want to do something about the problem before us today, we will also have to close the border for all asylum seekers and for immigrants from Islamic countries. Otherwise mop with the tap open. Are the rulers prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. We were allowed to ask four questions. Actually, I've got about five more, but okay, I'll pick the best in my last ten seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u5	Those four questions apply to interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u6	Oh, for interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u7	You're in charge of your own input. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u8	Okay, then I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u9	But before you continue, Mr Sjoerdsma has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u10	Oh, sorry. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u11	Then you can have a sip of water. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u12	Although the Dutch flag may have grown somewhat this week, I would like to characterize Mr De Graaf's contribution as non-Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u13	Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u14	With his input he goes against the Dutch Constitution. The freedom of religion, of religion, which is protected in our Constitution and which is also an important part of Dutch society, he simply puts aside. He throws it in the garbage. I would like to ask Mr De Graaf the following, because we are talking about an important problem today. We're talking about unwanted funding today. We are talking today about behaviour that we do not want to see here in the Netherlands. Why does he put all those Muslims in the same corner? It concerns the vast majority of Muslims in the same corner? Why would he put them all away? When we look at the public statements of the mosque domes, we see that they have said: we do not want this; we do not want these financial flows, we do not want these influences and we do not want these extremist ideas. Why does Mr De Graaf do something that is not only anti-Dutch but also endangers our safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u15	That's a reasoning like a wolk. It's a real wolk. It's been turned around three times. And in the end, the contrary image comes back to your own face. It is very Dutch what I do, because I stand here with fire and sword defending the Dutch values and norms, our history, our Christian individuality that we once had and which now generally belongs to the culture, of which I am proud.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u17	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I won't try to invent a metaphor that's crazier than the wolk. I am in favour of maintaining the core values of Dutch society, of the freedoms that we have here. These freedoms must be protected. That may be the only point on which Mr De Graaf and I will find each other, but it is not possible to protect these freedoms by putting aside a whole population, a whole religion, by putting aside good people who do support our values. Look at the integration figures: more and more highly educated, better jobs, western values endorsed. More and more, Mr. De Graaf, but you don't want to see that. You have an ideological blind spot. I'll say it nicely. I'm gonna ask you one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u18	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u19	I ask Mr De Graaf one more time, because he has not yet answered that question. He came up with a you-bowl. Why does he throw away all these well-intentioned Muslims in this debate, why does he focus solely on what is not right here, namely the flow of funding and the financing of extremist ideas?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u21	I have just explained what a trap there is: to tackle the Marcouch trap of only Salafism. But the problem is Islam. I leave that to Mr Sjoerdsma, because I do not do that here. I didn't mention a population group. Zero. I mentioned zero population groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u22	I would also leave Mr Marcouch alone, because he is not taking part in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u23	No, but it's a term, the Marcouch trap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u24	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u25	He's got it here... It's actually a term where you don't mention the person, but the effect that that issue has had. But okay, fine. When it comes to putting down population groups, read these sacred books and see how Jews, Christians, apostates, gays and women are put into them. I say to Mr Sjoerdsma that, if he had prepared himself well for the Islam debate, he would not have committed this interruption, because he would have seen it as a whole. But he refuses to accept that. Then you get this kind of politically correct, elitist bullshit on the interrupting microphone. I'm sorry to say this, but I don't have another word for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u26	Then I'm going to see Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr De Graaf says that parties here talk a bit concealing about unfree countries because they suffer from the Islamic supporters who would not, but I think that the Islamic supporters of the Christian Union are clear. And yet I am talking about unfree countries. Why? Because they're not just Gulf states. In all openness, we have talked a lot about Gulf states, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, with indeed a certain version of Islam that is breaking out values that are at odds with our own. I am certainly not talking about this in a covert way, but why am I talking about non-free countries? Because it's not just Muslim countries that use it. We have seen, for example, that a country such as Russia has tried to undermine the democratic process in the United States. I would like to ask Mr De Graaf whether he agrees with me that the term 'unfree countries' should be understood in a broad sense, for example, that it could also concern Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u28	That is a distraction from the debate we are discussing today, the debate we are discussing today. These are Islamic countries. Mr Segers is afraid to say that. He talks about certain forms of Islam, but no matter what four schools of law there are, shafites, hanbalites, wahabites, there is very little light between the interpretation of Islam. It's about very small dots. It's all a pot of wet, it's all the same and it's all for the same purpose, which is to subject the world to Islam. Tell me straight. Mr Segers is now involving Russia because that country would have tried to undermine the democratic process in the US. Moreover, the investigation into how that went has not yet been completed. Of course, you should not let your democratic process be influenced by any country. But we are the Netherlands. That is why we stand up for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u30	I'm just talking about Islamic countries, I'm not speaking in disguise. But I do say that if we set a standard, we must defend our freedom, and we must uphold that standard against all countries. So yes to Islamic countries. I'm not talking about that in disguise. I've been talking about it for five years. I am very concerned about that. I am angry with Mr Sjoerdsma when I feel that I am being fooled when we ask for research that is not being done. I am not talking about that in disguise, but that threat may also come from another side. My specific question is as follows. The standards we lay down for Saudi Arabia, for other Gulf States, apply to Russia and must we defend our freedom in the same way as we want to do to the Gulf States? Does the PVV agree with me that this also applies to Russia and the possible threat it poses? Yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u31	The name of our party is Party for Freedom, so we will oppose any country that will restrict the freedom of the Netherlands. We will oppose any restriction of freedom. I wish I always had the Christian Union with that. But the biggest problem we now have is 99% of the threat to our freedom. That's the problem now. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u32	I live in the district where Mr Marcouch once was district chairman. I would like the PVV to make as positive a contribution to integration and to the safety of everyone as Mr Marcouch did. I would like to invite Mr De Graaf to do so in future instead of shouting here about people who are making positive contributions to the safety of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u33	It's an observation. I referred to a phenomenon that has indeed started with Mr Marcouch. I'm glad I don't live in that neighborhood. I am glad that I live here in The Hague and that I have the beach on my doorstep and such and that I can indeed enjoy my freedom there to the full.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u34	It is a very nice neighborhood to live in, where all people of good will are committed to making something of it with each other, despite all the different backgrounds. If there's insecurity there, there's intervention. So I would like to invite Mr De Graaf: visit me sometime, have a cup of coffee. We'll walk through that neighborhood. You're gonna love it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u35	This isn't about what I said. It is probably a bit heavy on the stomach of Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA what I have just said. Yeah, I'm fine! I don't like coffee, but okay. It makes me very busy and hyperactive, which is not good for me. In all those neighborhoods in the Netherlands I have been once. I know what they look like. I'm glad I don't live there and Mrs Ploumen is glad she does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u36	Okay, good to know you don't drink coffee because it makes you hyperactive. I call Mr Pieter Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u37	In his speech, Mr De Graaf states that the whole of the Chamber is actually wrong by focusing on non-free countries and radical Islamists, but the reason for this debate lies in the various applications that have been put together very often in the broadcasts that Newsuur has made and in the articles that NRC has written. In one of these broadcasts are two mosque-goers from Geleen, who founded a mosque years ago, which they describe as being taken over by radical influences in recent years. The moderate imam was replaced by an imam from the Gulf that began with women's circumcision, Sharia marriages and radical ideas that we do not have here. When they denounced this, in the vein of 'we do not want it here', they were excommunicated and described as apostates, which involves dangers. Mr De Graaf knows that very well. He knows what the dangers are, because even within PVV security is sometimes needed. This also applies to these Muslims, because they oppose that radical influence. Does Mr De Graaf not think that we should support these Muslims, who oppose radicalisation in their own mosque, instead of saying: it is really nonsense what they say, because it is all the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u38	A small explication of what Mr Heerma has just said. Of course, we need security because we are criticizing Islam and not because we have resigned. I'd like to add that. Then I'll come to the question. The situation of those two people in the story of Mr Heerma who appeared there on TV shows exactly what Islam is like. That's what Mr Heerma says. If you criticize the execution as it really should be within Islam, according to the example of what is then called a prophet, Muhammad................................................................................................................. That's how it works; you'll be excommunicated. Then you're really lucky if you live. This has shown the problem. Should we support these people? We need to support anyone who wants to close a mosque. If these people want to get out of Islam, they're my biggest friends. With what has happened to them, however tragic, namely that they have been excommunicated and threatened, these people have immediately demonstrated the essence of Islam and have also shown that it is an ideology. 'Cause if you don't fit in anymore and don't fit in anymore, you're out and threatened. And then you're lucky to be alive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u39	I think it is a wonderful reasoning which Mr De Graaf puts down here. These are people, migrant workers, who came here in the 1970s and set up a mosque themselves, where an imam has been active for decades without problems or radicalisation. Then there will be funding from the Golstates. There comes a convert who exerts his influence there and suddenly everything turns. And because they do not want to leave the mosque, they denounce: "We do not want these radical influences. We do not want these ideas. We come in resistance as Muslims. We don't want it." Then suddenly they're threatened, excommunicated, and placed as apostates. And you're actually saying here: yes, that's because they themselves haven't known what Islam really was for decades. That's bullshit, Mr. De Graaf! Only if we make that distinction with each other and you do that here can we make a fist, also to protect them, instead of putting them away in the vein of "it's actually the same, or they'd have misunderstood." So I hope that Mr De Graaf will take another look at the broadcast and see that we have to support these people. He doesn't do that by saying: it's actually all one pot wet and they didn't understand it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u40	This is actually a repetition of moves, because it is one within the Islam of two and one. As an example, I would like to take Fawaz Jneid, of which I said: he laughs at us all here. It was just preaching again in I think the Westermoskee, or in the Blue Mosque; somewhere there in Amsterdam. It's just a little more explicit, a little more open actually, in what Islam actually means. He fully admits that. That's what happened in that mosque, I believe in Geleen. There is a full explanation of what Islam is. And that's from two and one: it's a little bit of religion, fortunately there are a lot of people in the Netherlands who say: we're sticking to that little religious piece of.. but you can't deny that second part. And that second part has also happened here: the most important, political, aggressive, dominant part of Islam, with all that violence in it, with all those calls for violence and with all those orders of violence. So if you resist that part of your ideology, you're out. It's two-and-a-half.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u41	Please continue. I thought you were finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr President, I would like to conclude by asking a few questions. Why, despite several investigations in the past and many government commitments to tackle the problem of mosque funding from Islamic countries, has nothing happened at all? What's with the opposition? Then I'm also talking about the RAND Institute. How did the Foreign Office's opposition go? And who ordered that investigation to be countered; to speak with the ambassadors of those countries mentioned in that investigation? Mr. Chairman. Then one last question. In addition to the questions I have already asked: is the Minister indeed prepared to take this forward, and I have just made it clear that Islam is the problem in the Netherlands to initiate the de-islamization of the Netherlands and to start by closing down all the hate huts, all the mosques? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u43	Mr. De Graaf, there's a question from Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u44	My party has great difficulty with people who preach hatred. In this context, I would like to ask Mr De Graaf what is going on with his boss, Mr Geert Wilders, who has been charged twice in our democratic rule of law with hate speech. He receives funds for this from abroad. Sometimes hundreds of thousands of euros are involved, for example from the David Horowitz Center, the organization that is the most anti-Islamic in America. What consideration does your party provide for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u45	For a number of years we have had legislation on receiving foreign donations and we are sticking to it. That is completely transparent, so if Mr Azarkan wants to know exactly what that is, he can look it all up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u46	My question was what consideration will be paid for receiving these funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u47	We are simply doing our political work, and we have supporters in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u48	But do you provide any specific consideration for that fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u49	I have now answered twice. I do not know what answer Mr Azarkan is still looking for. I said that we are transparent and there is a law. It's completely transparent, according to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u50	Perhaps you could explain your question further, Mr. Azarkan, otherwise it will indeed be a repeat of question and answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u51	What we do is exactly according to the law. We are transparent, as the law commands us. Anything Mr Azarkan wants to know can be found on the basis of the reporting by that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u52	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u53	Mr President, international terrorism in the form of violent and non-violent jihadism is a major problem. And everyone in this Chamber and beyond has known for years that this funding is being financed from the Gulf States. Together with this funding, this idea is also exported; the wahabism, the salafism that imposes and dictates how to live, which excludes those who think differently, that preach hatred of Jews, that oppresses women and that actually deprives people of individual religious freedom. We also know that the greatest victims are the people living in those countries in the Middle East. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mr De Graaf. And yes, they are mainly people with an Islamic background, Muslims. But this is not limited to that. This idea is being exported, including to European countries through the financing of religious institutions. This is happening not only in the Netherlands, but throughout Europe. And chairman, this Chamber, indeed from left to right, has been asking for insight, for action, to stop this funding for years. For years, we've been promised a lot of things. And so it turned out again last month by class journalism that this didn't happen. The Islamic communities in Dordrecht, Geleen and The Hague have been abandoned. In these mosques radical preachers have taken over power and hateful messages are preached. In the meantime, the D.A. is investigating. People are ringing the bell. Literally they say: whoever pays, decides, we can't do this anymore, help us! But they're not being helped. How is that possible, while in 2015 the former Minister of Social Affairs promised that this would be the way to share information with municipalities? Room pulls the doorbell, wants information, but there's a denial that there's information. Then there is wobbling, again by journalists, and the information comes out. There will be an investigation, again commissioned by the House of Representatives, into the extent of the funding, but the researchers are opposed by Foreign Affairs for diplomatic and geopolitical reasons, and probably also because of the oil dollars. They're not getting the information. Transparency was promised, but we still have no transparency. And every time, the press, together with the Chamber, had to use it to get something on paper at all. And it stayed with paper, Mr. Chairman. It seems as if the more the Chamber asked and the bigger the problems, the less this cabinet did. It is clear that this approach under the previous Rutte cabinet has completely failed. The result is a growth in the number of salafistic mosques, a growth in the number of salafistic preachers, more discontent in the communities in our society and people who feel abandoned. Does the Cabinet acknowledge that it has withheld information? Does the Secretary of State recognize that? Do the government and the Minister of Social Affairs recognise that the approach has failed? And the most important question is: will the cabinet finally implement the motion of the VVD and the SP of December 2015 by stopping this funding? We have a separation from Church and State, we don't finance religious institutions from the Netherlands, and I don't know why we should allow it if that happens from abroad. I would like a response, especially since we are currently working on a ban on foreign financing of political parties, because that can indeed undermine our democracy. Well, I think that seems to be the case here, too. Mr President, our democracy, our security, our fundamental rights are too important to leave to Gulf states. I now expect concrete actions and very rapid actions, but also, above all, recognition and explanation of how this could have happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u54	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u55	"A woman must be stoned when she commits adultery. A girl must be circumcised so that her lusts will not sprout. The jihad must prevail." These objectionable statements might be expected in a prayer house somewhere in some IS enclave, not in our free Netherlands. But unfortunately, these statements were made in mosques in The Hague, Dordrecht, Rotterdam, Geleen. The Dutch who are often born here are poisoned from abroad with unfree ideas. This acts against integration and creates a breeding ground for insecurity and, even worse, terror. That's gotta stop. We must prevent integration from being obstructed from abroad. We do not want to influence Dutch people in Dutch mosques through funding from countries such as Kuwait, Saudi Arabia but also Turkey. I believe that most of the parties agree on this today, but unfortunately there has been too long debate and too little work done. Years ago, the VVD together with the SP filed a motion to restrict funding from abroad. Unfortunately, then Minister Asscher claimed that he had no opportunity to take action. Fortunately, on the basis of the Zijlstra/Segers motion in the coalition agreement, we agreed to take action. I am therefore pleased that Minister Dekker has announced a law to actually regulate transparency. But that's just the beginning of the VVD. I also ask Minister Koolmees if he will come up with legislation after his reconnaissance in the autumn to actually limit funding. We call on him to do this as soon as possible. In the meantime, we must use all information about unwanted influence in mosques to intervene. Municipal leaders now feel powerless, while they sometimes have great concerns. Minister Koolmees writes that he wants to better inform municipalities. In any case, I hope that his predecessor will be better; that would be good. But also with information, municipalities do not have enough opportunities to intervene and it is not always just their role. My specific question to Minister Koolmees is whether he is prepared to better collect all the information flows, i.e. from the services, diplomatic channels, banking and municipalities, at one central point and to organise perseverance for intervention. Because, as Mayor Krikke said in the Nieuwsuur broadcast, precisely the combination of local concerns and national knowledge must lead to action more quickly. By action, I mean everything, in the spectrum of closing a mosque, freezing or stopping funding, not granting a license to a criminal route involving the prosecution. Can the cabinet come up with a proposal? I'm considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of better use of information, who has more information about financing than our banks? The VVD wants to ask the cabinet today if it is possible to require banks to report financial transactions from non-free countries to religious organisations here. Here too, I am considering a motion, but of course I would like to hear the reaction of the cabinet first. Mr. Chairman. This debate is about mosque financing, and that is not just happening from abroad. In The Hague we saw that in the controversial As-Soennah mosque of municipal money language lessons were given. Fortunately, this has been stopped, but does Minister Koolmees know which mosques are currently receiving municipal funding to implement integration policies? And does he agree with the VVD that mosques with unwanted influences cannot be used simultaneously as an instrument of integration? Mr President, I will conclude. Freedom in the Netherlands is worth defending: to be allowed to be who you are, to be allowed to love whoever you want, to be divorced from Church and State. Our liberal democracy makes the Netherlands the Netherlands. Anyone who lives here, we'll ask them to join us. This means accepting our values instead of undermining them, abuse them or even overthrowing them. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u56	I hope that Mrs Becker will receive answers to all these questions. I've been putting them to VVD executives for about eight years, including VVD aldermen, and I never get an answer, because they don't want to touch it. So I'm glad those questions are coming from the VVD corner as well. Well, let's see what the answers are. Other thing; that was just a observation. What if without foreign money flows in mosques in the Netherlands there is Salafist preaching? Or what if there's hanbalitic preaching, or wahabitic or shafistic? Then what is the solution of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr De Graaf is right to point out that with a debate on mosque financing and limiting funding flows from abroad, we are obviously not here. There is also legislation on financing terror. We also need to see if we can tackle organisations that provide a platform for hate-stowing, insurrection, undermining the Dutch rule of law. Of course, I am not making that up today, which is something the VVD has been putting forward for some time in various debates with Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u58	Then I hope the VVD picks up the glove. What Mrs Becker has just said is that Islam is a problem. Because all the law schools I just mentioned, I missed one more, but that doesn't matter; they're all about four leading law schools within Islam. They all cause terror and they all cause insecurity. They're all causing misogynistic behavior. They cause all those problems that Mrs Becker just mentioned. It's a problem of Islam. I hope that the VVD will finally go ahead and that Mrs Becker can say that she will fight side by side with the PVV for the de-Islamicisation of the Netherlands. Because she has just said that Islam is the problem of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u59	I'm talking about my own words. I did not say what has just been said by Mr De Graaf. The VVD stands for the freedom of all Dutch. These may also be Dutch people who adhere to Islam, who are Muslims, but at the same time, as Mr Heerma has just said, are liberal, embrace our freedoms and say: I no longer recognize my mosque as my mosque since the radical influences from the Middle East, for example, have entered our mosque through funding. Legislation must also be introduced to protect these people. Mr De Graaf seems only to want to defend the freedom of Dutch people who do not adhere to Islam. He says: there is a group of Dutch people whose freedom I do not want to defend. I'm not gonna be a part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u60	Mr President, I am being addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u61	You spoke to me and I answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u62	I think I'm allowed to interrupt here and that's usually also appealing and...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u63	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u64	...then I'll be addressed. That's how it goes here in the Lower House. Then you can say something about that, if the President allows it, and she just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u65	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u66	Mrs. Becker's getting a little panicked, it seems. Because she's all saying things about things I haven't mentioned that the PVV has never mentioned. I almost thought the SP was blaring against me about "you're putting groups away" and like that, or D66. That's not true. We grant freedom to everyone in the Netherlands. In order to grant that freedom to everyone, you will have to de-islamize. I love all these women, Mr. Chairman, through you I say to Mrs. Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u67	Another outburst this morning!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u68	I give them that freedom and I love all those people, let me just say that. But I do grant them the freedom they want deep down. But then you're gonna have to de-islamize. That is the only way, because as long as there are mosques there will remain influence. Islam is always radical and there will always be professional Muslims who take the lead in getting everyone back in the booth, and that box is called Islam. That booth is a piece of religion, a lot of politics and much more oppression. So I would say: help me de-islamize the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u69	Speaking of panic. I think that Mr De Graaf clearly states here that he does not want to defend the freedom of people who say at the same time that they can be liberal and embrace our freedoms...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u70	No, no, Mr De Graaf, let's wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u71	...but also choose their own faith. But writing off the whole problem on one religion and putting away a whole group is not part of it. We are not looking away from the problems, which is why we have been debating them for years. But do you know the difference between the VVD and the PVV? We come up with concrete solutions, we agreed in the coalition agreement, together with the four parties, also on the basis of Mr Zijlstra's and Mr Segers' motion, in order to make funding truly transparent and effectively stop. That's taking responsibility without putting whole groups away. That's not panic, that's realism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u72	That's right, panic. Here again it repeats what has been repeated before, about putting away groups and the like. I'm not arguing with the SP, am I, with GroenLinks? I'm debating with the VVD. The VVD does indeed call out about ten years later what the PVV also said ten years ago. Then they say: we come up with solutions! Yeah, you're a little late. The VVD has not taken its responsibility. The VVD has let everything go, with all the mayors they have in the municipalities, with all the executives they have in the Cabinets. They've kept everything on track all the time, left the boundaries open. And when I say I'm giving everyone freedom, Mrs. Becker says you don't give them freedom. That is indeed almost a socialist text.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u73	I didn't hear a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u74	Without wishing to speak, I would simply like to share the view that when I hear Mr De Graaf speaking, it sometimes seems as if he is a professional Salafist. That's how totalitarian these ideas are every now and then. But, of course, I have a question for Mrs Becker. I am also pleased with all the laws and rules announced on transparency, but also in view of our joint motion I would like to ask her whether she also believes that additional legislation should be introduced that prohibits funding of religious institutions from foreign governments. This should be purely and alone from the point of view of separation between church and state, but also from the existing idea of banning funding of political parties abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u75	The government agreement states that we will see whether funding from abroad can be limited if it restricts freedom in the Netherlands, if it undermines the democratic rule of law in the Netherlands. Mr Koolmees has indicated that he is going to explore the possibilities. I think that the answer to this question is, to a certain extent, affirmative, and I think that legislation should be followed quickly. I think it should not just be a reconnaissance, but it should also be laid down in legislation. I would like to hear from Minister Koolmees whether he shares that and how quickly he intends to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u76	I understand that, and I want to do so, but because it is all slightly weaker in the coalition agreement, it says 'limit', I ask Mrs Becker whether those laws and rules should also prohibit the funding of religious institutions from foreign governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u77	Mrs Karabulut is actually asking me to translate what is written in the coalition agreement back into the motion. She is asking me to use more of the literal text of the motion we tabled at the time, but of course we have agreed on the wording with four parties for a reason. I would like to stick to the wording in the coalition agreement, but it is the solution that is at stake, and I think we both want it. We both want this kind of undermining funding to be banned. When it comes to exactly how that should be done, I await Minister Koolmees' reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u78	My question follows on from that. We have seen a lot of motions and a lot of emotion around this subject in recent years, but little real action. I was therefore curious to see what difference the coalition agreement is really going to make. Can Mrs Becker clarify that further? What is there agreement on under the coalition agreement? What measures really need to be taken? What does this text of the coalition agreement really mean to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u79	Thank you for this question. Transparency and also the ability to reduce funding have long been the subject of debate. Even before I was in this room, that's what happened. As a result of the broadcasting of Newshour, the RAND research and the WODC research, we have seen that it is extremely complicated to get transparent where funding actually comes from and what happens to it, also because there is no obligation for organisations here to be transparent about the origin of funds. We are therefore dependent on diplomatic reporting and agreements with countries such as Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. We think that's vulnerable. We therefore want to organise a more legal basis for this transparency. That's one. I am glad that Minister Dekker has also said that he will come forward with legislation in the summer. That's step one as far as the VVD is concerned. Step two is: what do you do with transparency when you know that this funding comes from an unfree country and is also used to restrict freedom here? We believe that this is something that we have written down, and that it should also be possible to limit it. That requires, I think, legislation. That is why I have just asked Minister Koolmees whether he really wants to come up with legislation. That is indeed groundbreaking. It has taken far too long, and I agree with you, but there would certainly be a breakthrough if we had two laws that really provide us with tools to limit this rather than being dependent on non-binding agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u80	That sounds good. The government agreement says that these flows of money will be reduced as much as possible, but does that mean that legislation will bring that about, because otherwise we will not be able to move forward with just this general formulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u81	Mr Van der Staaij agrees exactly with the question I have just asked Minister Koolmees. So I await the answer to that, but I can only imagine that, if you want to limit this, you will need a legal basis for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u82	I, too, do need a little clarification of where the VVD stands. Making transparent is something other than limiting and restricting is something other than banning. It's all coming along now, and it looks like it's a bit of a one-way trip with reconnaissance, and then there's legislation. Is the VVD now in favour of banning or restricting foreign financing of mosques in the Netherlands, provided that the financing.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u83	As I have just said, this issue has been under discussion for a long time. If you ask us as a VVD what we want, I say that we formulated this together with the SP in 2015: we would like that funding to be reduced. That was also investigated by the cabinet at the time. Minister Asscher said that a general ban on financing mosques from abroad is contrary to the freedom of religion. It can't be. So we've gone looking for what we can do. In the end, this has also been the subject of a motion by Mr Zijlstra and Mr Segers: we need to provide some leads as to why this funding is a problem. This is the case if it comes from non-free countries and affects freedom here. Then you have some pure criteria to be able to limit. That is the work of Minister Koolmees. He's exploring this. I hope that will lead to action as soon as possible. That's what I called for today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u84	Mr Segers. No, not Mr Segers. Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u85	Maybe he'd like to ask you something; that might be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u86	He just showed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u87	I conclude that foreign financing of a Dutch mosque, if it does not come from an unfree country and does not demonstrably lead to................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's the point of view, isn't it? Or do I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u88	We still have to see it, but I think that the legislation that Minister Dekker is proposing and which obliges us to make funding transparent from free or non-free countries can also give us an insight into where funding comes from. I also think that this relates to my other question that I raised in the debate, and that we are going to link that information much better in the end with many other signals from municipalities who have a feeling of concern about what is happening in the mosque, from banks but also, of course, from our security services. I believe that action must be taken on the basis of specific situations, even if they may not meet the criteria just mentioned. I'm in favour of that happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u89	I have a question for Mrs Becker, who says quite clearly that these are clear criteria. A criterion is "an unfree country and an unfree message." Let's look at "an unfree country." Can Mrs Becker mention a number of non-free countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u90	What happens now may be, but it puts me in the position of defending a bill here. I don't think that's the case. Of course, criteria will have to be established on what is 'an unfree country'. That is not for nothing why Minister Koolmees is exploring this. In relation to Mr Erdogan's desire to campaign in Europe and to get a stage here to increase freedom there, I recently said, for example, that I consider Turkey to be an unfree and undemocratic country. I've asked the Cabinet to investigate whether we can limit that on that ground. For example, there are more countries where democracy is not as we know it in the Netherlands, where there are no free elections, where there is no freedom of the press, where people are oppressed and where women do not have sufficient rights. All of these could be criteria. I am not going to list an exhaustive list now, but I think we should think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u91	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u92	When you're at DENK, it's never long before a very simple question Erdogan is brought in and all kinds of things are thrown into the world again. My question was quite simple. You say we have clear criteria. In fact, you say that is the conclusion I draw that these criteria still have to be drawn up by the Minister. That's clear to me. That's a simple answer. If you'd said that, we'd be done soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u93	It was not my intention that Mr Azarkan should feel addressed when it comes to Erdogan. That's up to him. I hope that Mr Azarkan will support those who support each other in order to limit this funding by asking for the criteria and how we can limit them. I'm counting on his support. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u94	Thank you, Mrs Becker. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u95	Thank you, Madam President. A special word of welcome for the Foreign Minister, who I think has had a short night. I appreciate the fact that he's here. I cannot fully promise him that, for my part, it will remain uncritical when it comes to foreign affairs, but that relates more to his predecessor than to himself. Madam President. Freedom is a great asset and in this country we share it with everyone who knows how to value it. But freedom is not meant for people who want to destroy that freedom. It is an urgent problem: financing from non-free countries to the Netherlands. We have seen elsewhere in the world where that can lead. The influence of Salafism and Wahabism on the Middle East and on countries in the Middle East has been disastrous. When attacks were carried out in Belgium, closer to home, in 2016, the Belgian Parliament commissioned research and asked where this came from. They have looked, among other things, at foreign states using their diplomatic and financial power to spread salafism. Although violence is not always explicitly called for, there are factors that encourage individuals to withdraw from the community and we often see that this leads to violent radicalism and jihadism. So there is a connection between the most extreme outcome, namely an attack, and foreign financing. AIVD and the NCTV have also warned about salafism in their own country. I quote: 'It is basically an intolerable, isolationist and anti-democratic ideology' and, again, a quote: 'which can contribute to radicalisation towards great jihadism'. And it happens, it happens. It is the credit of Nieuwsuur and of NRC that they have reported on this. We have seen the calls: jihad against other believers, death penalty on apostasy, violence and oppression of women, female circumcision. We are therefore talking about radical Salafist statements which are extremely worrying. In short, it is taking place, it is extremely risky and we have little resources to do anything about it so far. The coalition agreement has decided to do something about it. Mr Van der Staaij has already pointed this out. It is important that municipalities have adequate information, but we have seen that the information has not been properly shared. It took more than a year between the moment it was available on Social Affairs and the last information ended up with the municipalities in November 2017. Why was that? Not because Social Affairs thought: let's take action for once, but because Nieuwsuur was going to call around and ask around. Can the Minister for Social Affairs confirm this state of affairs? At least as bad is the provision of information to the researchers of RAND Europe. We have just seen a statement by RAND Europe. Then I come to my critical point in the direction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I have great difficulty in reflecting the answer to the questions, namely that full cooperation has been given to all consciences. That's not true, there was more information available that wasn't shared and the information, the list that was shared, was shared because an employee of Social Affairs came across in his inbox and forwarded it to a researcher from RAND Europe. That's how prosaic it was. I have a really bad feeling about that. It was a motion and it was carried out that way. As Mr Sjoerdsma said, we have been fooled. I have a really bad feeling about that. It is better to admit that this did not go well and it is better to say that this calls for a new investigation. I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma's request. Madam President. I have to be really quick. We have to act. Three tracks. First of all, transparency. Minister Dekker has announced a legislative proposal for this, but it is also about maintaining the criteria for anbi-status that require transparency. I think it would be a good idea to dot on the i so that we can really maintain it. That is also a question for Minister Dekker. The second is the use of diplomatic channels. The Foreign Minister says that Saudi Arabia, among other things, has indicated that no funding will be made if we do not want it to. My question to the Foreign Minister is: what do we not want? Do we have clear criteria for this and are we clear about that? We need to use those channels. The third track is the administrative approach, which is to enable municipalities to act. First of all, information must be shared. Have we learned from the past? Is the information that came to congregations more generously now? How is it shared? How do we enable municipalities to act? The next suggestion is a suggestion that I have already made in the media together with Mr Heerma and I am sure he will explain it further. Does the Bibob Act or the route of the Bibob Act not offer the possibility to address this administratively, to establish criteria as we do elsewhere, and to enable municipalities to act against unwanted funding? Madam President, all the way, all the way, all the way to the end. I said freedom is a great asset. We share it and we give it to everyone, including those who do not share our deepest conviction, which is my deepest conviction, but that is always reciprocal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u97	That must come from both sides, but it is absolutely my last sentence, freedom must also be defended, and this is the time to defend freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u98	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a free country. We're proud of that, and we'd like to keep it that way. But the freedom of one person can be a threat to the other. This is the case, for example, when an online islam course recommends circumcision for women, Mrs Becker has already spoken of it or if it is taught that adultery can be the death penalty by stoning. If criminal acts are committed through these kinds of calls, if they cause hatred, calls for violence, open discrimination, then the law already offers the opportunity to act against them. But first we need to know what is being done when and by whom, and that is not always the case. It should also be clear when such expressions are punishable under existing legislation. And that is not always the case either. If there is any foreign financing of this kind of preaching, then that raises additional questions. How can we limit that? How can we prevent unwanted steering without violating the freedom of religion? GroenLinks likes to support the explorations that the cabinet is now carrying out on the legal regulation of transparency and on the possibilities to limit money flows from non-free countries. I would like to make a few comments. My group has never supported motions for a total ban on foreign funding of mosques in the past. They are difficult to implement and are at odds with the cherished freedom of religion. But on the basis of what we know, something extra must be done, and that is what my group is convinced of. The cabinet says: not so much funding, but putting behavior at the centre. The coalition agreement says to restrict funding from non-free countries. I would say that the first is a little too easy and the second is a little too little precise. In my group's view, you should pay attention to the origin of the funding, even if you do not yet know what possible undesirable behaviour that might lead to. Think, for example, of the Society of the Revival of Islamic Heritage from Kuwait, whose branches support Al-Qaeda and are therefore listed as terror by the US. It wouldn't be so crazy to limit the funding of a Dutch mosque from such a source, even if we're not sure if that also leads to unwanted preaching. Even if such a dubious foundation is not in an unfree country, others have already asked: what exactly is the definition? Financing seems problematic to me. Does the Minister agree with me? Should we not look above all at the source of funding, and then, of course, at the behaviour to which it leads? Could there still be a distinction between financing by public authorities, which may be undesirable in any case, and financing by private initiative? Madam President. In all cases, transparency is, of course, essential. A lot went wrong there, just to use an understatement. Information was badly shared with those who could do something with it, according to all the letters and answers to questions: too late, too little and sometimes even not at all because the Ministry thought that municipality A would inform municipality B, whereas municipality A turned out not to have done so. Information from September 2016 from one ministry was shared with the other ministry in June 2017. And what was left behind was quickly followed up in November, when journalists from Nieuwsuur and the NRC started to question. A mess! It does not seem to have led to security risks, says the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment in his letter yesterday. That sounds economical, that "appears." And isn't it about more than security risks? Could there have been, for example, established staff facts? How does the Minister see that? And is it going to be better in the future? "The cabinet is currently working out a process in which timely and good information is central to all concerned," the letter states. "A trial"? "Work it out"? Just sharing, I'd say, and then talking about what needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u100	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u101	Madam President, the revelations of Nieuwsuur and NRC are shocking. My colleagues have rightly said a great deal about this. But, Madam President, I will begin with a quote. "Also imams from Libya, Egypt and Syria came to the Netherlands to preach Islam. A number of Arab countries started financing mosques here. With this began a different Islam than that where Moroccans grew up in. They called for Islamic doctrine. This led to great internal quarrels. But through foreign funds, with which more and more mosques were built, especially countries from the Gulf gained influence. The Dutch government did not interfere with internal affairs. And in the meantime, the radicals were able to do their job quietly and bind young people to themselves. In Amsterdam and Utrecht there were mosques that everyone knew were preaching radical Islam. We did not understand anything that the Dutch government monitored these practices and did nothing." So much for this quote. You will have recognized it, Madam President, because it comes from your book Couscous on Sunday, which describes how foreign interference and foreign money flows played the leading role in the rise of radical Islam in the Netherlands from the outset. In Morocco of the first and second generation the imam played a marginal role; he preached prayer. Little Khadija Arib brought him a cup of couscous. That's it. In the Netherlands, the imam was suddenly referred to as the mouthpiece of the Moroccan community. We tolerated the foreign money flows that allowed radicals to get a foot in the door. Mr. Chairman. At first we may not yet see it clearly, but News, NRC and colleagues Karabulut, Van Ojik and Segers have described very well that these flows of money from unfree countries are still there; money flows that feed the steady growth of Salafism. The AIVD sees this current as a food supply for terrorism. Foreign funding from non-free countries threatens the integration and freedom of moderate Muslims and ex-Muslims, the freedom of women and homosexuals, and leads to breeding sites of terror. The limits of religious freedom are exceeded if women are not allowed to divorce when minors marry. We have to keep those boundaries under strict guard. I'd like a response. The government agreement states that money flows from non-free countries, which abuse our freedoms, are limited as much as possible. That level of official ambition can be higher. I'd like a response. 50PLUS wants to speed up the ban on financing from non-free countries. As early as 2015 the Chamber indicated through a motion by colleague Knops that the funding of Salafism should stop. Mayors in the big cities also want such a law today rather than tomorrow. Can there be a bill soon after the summer recess? In 2013, a top official of the Kuwaiti Ministry of Religious Affairs became chairman of the board of the Blue Mosque. What's going on with that, anyway? Does that happen all the time? I conclude with a second quote from our President from her beautiful book Couscous on Sunday: "I realized that Islamism had entered the Moroccan community and I feared the consequences for women and girls. It is women who pay the price when religious groups come to power. Fanatic believers are always obsessed with women." It's a beautiful quote. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u102	I immediately recognized the quote, Mr. Krol. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u103	Madam President. The SGP does not want to import hatred and violence from countries such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar but also other countries, via Dutch mosques. We are concerned about the downright jihadist or disgusting ideas that Dutch society can also take hold of. That is why great alertness is needed at a time when the threat of jihadist terrorism is at the top of our agenda as a threat to our freedom. Mr. Chairman. Freedom of conscience is an important Dutch value that is at stake here. This calls for a targeted, active approach. That is why, first of all, we need to know what is going on, so we need to do good research on the flows of funding. Secondly, we need to have a good sharing of information with everyone who has a role to play in this area, whether administratively or criminally. I'm thinking of mayors, too. Thirdly, we must have a proper legal toolbox to act against if we are to find something that is not right. Mr. Chairman. When I look at it that way, the SGP is critical of the current state of affairs. Because when it comes to knowing well, there is a great deal of uncertainty about these funding flows. It was important media revelations from NRC and Nieuwsuur that brought more information to the world. The information provided to the Chamber was messy, half and slow. Mr Segers has already asked a number of sharp questions about this, which I very much welcome. Mr. Chairman. Secondly, there is a lack of information sharing, a lack of information exchange between public authorities. If anything was known, it often went wrong there again. Thirdly, if the information became known, there was often an active embarrassment: can we do enough with it? Mr. Chairman. The picture of the past few years is: a lot of study, a lot of debate, a lot of motions, but still few real actions. In addition to everything that has been put forward by colleagues so far, may I suggest a thought that more affects the Chamber itself: would this also be a subject for parliamentary questioning? We have already created this instrument in 2016, in order to be able to hear a number of people targeted independently of large surveys in fairly short sessions. It was once a motion by Mr Segers, which was worked out in 2016 in a temporary protocol. In this case, it could also be about people who know about these funding flows, but also about researchers who have a role in it or people who have a job to see what is the best way to combat it. I am therefore also concerned about Parliament's own role. Not just debate, once a Question Time, another debate on the basis of a news report and then wait a long time, but perhaps we ourselves as a parliament can take the gauntlet more actively. Mr. Chairman. I would ask the government to ensure that transparency, which has already been mentioned so much and on which many promises are made, is clarified quickly. We need to be clear about how that is possible and how it is to be done. It is a question of transforming the general promises of the coalition agreement into concrete actions. Secondly, the gaps in the exchange of information must be closed. In this context, I would ask for a response to the proposals of the Mayor of The Hague. Thirdly, it is a question of actively and seriously exploiting the possibilities already available under the law, for example the possibility of dissolution and possibilities under civil law, against mosques that form a foundation when there is a call for criminal offences. My question to the Minister for Legal Protection is: will this happen, will it be looked at in that way? Finally, although this is a very important point, I would like to ask whether this tightening-up of legislation is taking place both in the area of transparency and in the area of the real limitation of these financial flows. I would like to hear what the concrete plans and timetables are for this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u104	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u105	Mr. Chairman. If you look at this debate, with the history, the motions, to which reference has already been made, and especially the recent publication in the NRC and the broadcast of Nieuwsuur, you cannot ignore the fact that two feelings are central to this debate: unease and impotence. There is unease about the undesirable radical influence bought from Gulf states through the financing of mosques and the undermining associated with them. Several colleagues have already mentioned the calls for genital mutilation of women, anti-democratic ideas and glorification of the jihad. We can't. We don't want that here. I see the most powerless thing as far as I was concerned just now in the interrupting debate with Mr De Graaf, in the example of those two visitors to the mosque in Geleen. They saw how radical influences in their mosque took over and the imam worked out. They themselves were excommunicated when they said: we do not want this, not in our mosque; we do not let this happen. They were called apostates. I think they were in that broadcast with tears in their eyes, and rightly so. I have already heard several colleagues say: we must not leave these people in the cold. And yet, if we all don't want to do this, why can't we make a fist out of it? I have already mentioned impotence and displeasure, but I have the feeling that I have difficulty with the fact that there is also unwillingness. Several colleagues have already been critical of this. That feeling is due to several letters we received this week. Mr Sjoerdsma was most keen on that, I think. After reading those letters, you still feel that there has not been sufficient cooperation and that there is not enough information being shared. Mrs Karabulut is very keen on this. I know she's been having debates in this house for a long time, where the reactions are: it can't, it can't, we don't want to. But something really needs to be done. I share the suggestion made by several colleagues that the investigation should be repeated. Because when you see the reaction of RAND Europe, what happened doesn't feel right. But I also think that the predecessor of the Minister of Integration has made several statements about this: if you look at it now, something else has happened in practice. That information has remained and has not been shared with municipalities and there is no covenant at all, as was announced. I think the point was that that is too optimistic. All sorts of suggestions have been made, but nothing has happened to them. I think it should be better, because how else can municipalities do their job? That is why I ask: what is the state of play in the coalition agreement, when can we, as a Chamber, receive the bill on transparency, this summer? Will the Minister of Justice and Security address the question of what this is going to do to help? I agree with previous speakers who said: it should not be a reconnaissance, there should be measures, laws that say that we can actually fight it. That is what Mrs Becker said and Mr Van der Staaij said just now. Time is short, Mr President, so I would like to conclude with two suggestions which I would like to make in addition. My colleague Omtzigt and I have asked several questions about the possibilities that exist, because mosques like foundations with an anbi status have certain obligations that are not being fulfilled. Think, for example, of the As-Soennah mosque. Are there not more possibilities to enforce and intervene in transparency? The last suggestion is next. A revision of the Bibob Act is currently under way, also following the coalition agreement. It is primarily aimed at tackling criminal undermining better, but, as the cabinet itself says, there is an undermining of our democratic rule of law when it comes to these financial flows and radicalisation. Is the Cabinet prepared to look at how these undermining activities can be better dealt with in the review of the Bibob Act and how, in line with the request made by, among others, the Mayor of The Hague, we can give more opportunities to make a fight against this kind of organisation even under administrative law? I would like to respond to that, because we need to develop not only in concrete measures what we have already agreed, but also to show that we can do more. Therefore, these suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u106	I fully endorse these suggestions. Mr Heerma and I have also made proposals together in the past. One of these proposals is that we must at least ensure that measures are put in place to prevent foreign governments from financing our religious institutions, purely because religious institutions are from and for local communities, and we as the Dutch government do not. Would you like to give that assignment to the cabinet with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u107	I know very well which motion Mrs Karabulut refers to. That was also a difficult discussion. Unfortunately, I am going to refer in part to another debate, but I will also answer her question. This is explicitly about influence from Diyanet and the debate we have had on it. I think that the exploration should also look very explicitly at Turkey and at Diyanet. That's what I'm asking Minister Koolmees. And yes, that follows from this. In addition, we have split up these debates and we will also have a separate debate on Turkey. This includes influence and a sermon held in Hoorn. In that debate, I am going to go into that more explicitly. In this contribution today, I have focused mainly on what emerges from the broadcast of Nieuwsuur and in NRC. However, I believe that there should be a number of measures in this exploration and that it should also be looked very strongly at the direct financing and influence of foreign powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u108	I'm happy about that. That's important. The reason was indeed Diyanet, but the formulation is general. Of course it also concerns the Gulf States. If that is what we think of Turkey, then so is the Gulf States. So I'm happy about that. I look forward to the cabinet's embrace. That's the least it can do after everything that hasn't happened in recent years. I would also like an appreciation from Mr Heerma on the approach in recent years. I also find it dramatic how communities have been abandoned. But how would you, all in all, appreciate it was a cabinet approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u109	In my contribution I used three words with an o. I have spoken of 'unpleasant' and 'unpowerful', but I also feel that if you see those broadcasts and read those letters, there has been too much 'unwill'. I think that should change. I therefore believe that this powerlessness should be transformed into a perspective of action. Therefore, the suggestions to the municipalities to actually do something through administrative law. I would also like to mention two explorations which should lead to concrete measures so that we can really do something. But I also think that research that could not be done sufficiently should be done again, also in order to get a better picture. That is a suggestion that Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Segers are making here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u110	I fully agree with Mr Heerma that we should look back at what did not go well, but at the same time we should not dwell too long on debating alone. Action must be taken, says Mr Heerma. I'll share that with him all the way. I also appreciate the fact that he has put a number of concrete ideas on the table. I know that in 2015 the idea of the Bibob was discussed by Mr Potters of my party. Mrs Keijzer of Mr Heerma's party has also asked in the past whether there are any indications. It would be good to give municipalities a more active perspective. So I'm curious to see what the cabinet says about that. But what I understood from Mayor Krikke is that not only municipalities themselves want more perspective of action, but that they also want their local signals to enrich the information nationwide, that it comes together in one place and that action is taken more quickly. That is what I proposed to the cabinet today, to do the same. Perhaps this also requires a legal basis, as Mrs Krikke suggests. Does Mr Heerma share that idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u111	I am pleased that Mrs Becker has allowed me to speak a part of my speech which I had shortened for the sake of speaking time here. Because I'm actually asking for three things from the cabinet. Speaking of the distress call coming from mayors, there are three problems. 1. Is the information coming up? 2. Are they supported enough to do something with that? 3. Doesn't that Bibob really offer any more administrative possibilities? Mrs Becker is actually asking for that support. And in how this is going to be designed, I am also curious about the reaction of the cabinet. But it does start with that information. That really didn't go well in the previous period. Point 2, these municipalities are also actively supported from the Empire, what can you do with this information? And then point 3, the proposal that Mr Segers and I are making here: make sure that there are more opportunities for administrative action through the Bibob, not only in criminal organisations but also here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u112	I also appreciate that proposal, but at the same time it is not just about supporting municipalities. I have at least heard Mrs Krikke's and Mr Kolff's words at the Nieuwsuur table, and I have heard the question whether you are willing to intervene nationally on the basis of signals from local authorities. Mayors say that they also expect more support through national action, for example by freezing funding based on local signals. Does Mr Heerma share that more needs to be done nationally?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u113	Mrs Beckers' question is in the end, in the word'support'. That's exactly what this is about. That's an interaction, that's sharing information over and over again. That is giving opportunities to municipalities, but that is also taking your own responsibility to do something with it. I believe Mayor Krikke is advocating the creation of a new centre of expertise for this purpose. The question is whether that's necessary and where you do it. Do you do that with the State Department, do you do that with the Justice Department, or do you do that with SZW? Or are you using the National Bureau of Bibob for that? You can use all kinds of possibilities for that. Yet the key word is in that support. More needs to be done to support these municipalities. That is also a national responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u114	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u115	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a Jewish-Christian, Islamic, atheistic and agnostic culture. Everyone can be themselves and decide for themselves what they believe or don't believe. Live and let live. That is why we say: mosques also belong in the Netherlands today. Over the last 60 years, these have been built up, often with the money of the local community of faith and sometimes with a donation from abroad. Many mosques make a positive contribution to society. They organise activities for young people. They help counter radicalisation. They organize political debates. And they also help with public order and security, as here in The Hague in the Schilderswijk during the riots in the summer of 2015. But, Mr. Chairman, the sun is going up for nothing. Building, maintaining and securing mosques costs a lot of money, especially at this time, in which mosques are almost every week threatened, plastered, smeared. The windows are thrown in and attempts are made to arson. The government refuses to spend money on security, and that money is often also coming out of visitors' pockets. And there are also mosque directors who write a fund all over the world to make a financial contribution. With these donations one receives, one fills in the zakat as one of the five pillars of Islam. What exactly does it mean? Literally means clearing one's wealth and possessions by donating a prescribed amount to the poor and needy in an act of worship. There's no consideration for that. What is wrong with applying for money from foreign funds? The Minister himself gives the answer in the letter. There's nothing wrong with that. That is what we have regulated here in our country and in our laws, so that this can be done just fine. As DENK, we have major problems with the abuses. We have to take it hard, as we do in other places in our society. For if, exceptionally, a counterpart is requested in the form of a preacher who says socially disruptive things that go against our democratic rule of law and wants to radicalise young people, then the administration of the mosque in question should first take firm action. That was also the case in The Hague. The As-Soennah mosque said goodbye to her imam. After that, if there's a reason, the DA can act. The question for today is: what is the role and attitude of politics and government? Let us take an example from the former VVD mayor Van Aartsen. He literally said, "Let's not lose businessmanship and coolness." In his belief, mosques were equal interlocutors. That's what you're going to do to discuss the problems that have been identified and then look for solutions, side by side. It's a lot easier to scream murder and fire right away. We know the mantras of some political parties. As soon as there is coverage of mosques or Muslims, something strange happens: the oxygen supply to the brain ends abruptly, one forgets that we live in a democratic rule of law, the parliamentary role is ignored and even before the facts are clear, they have sharpened the proverbial knives and removed the verbal bats from the cupboard. Then one goes to the favourite hobby, namely Muslim bashen. The ease and ferocity with which they do so betrays the underlying agenda: Muslims are no good. Too easily one draws a straight line between funding, interference, clash of values, radicalisation and integration problems. If you're gonna shut down money flows to mosques, then you're gonna threaten mosques in their right to exist. Then you limit the fundamental rights of Muslims. Although it is politically correct to chop at Muslims, I would ask the ministers to distance themselves from that. I ask them to work together with mosques, to expose occasional abuses and to solve the abuses that most Muslims themselves suffer together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u116	Thank you. I call Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u117	Mr. Chairman. Radical extremist versions of Islam are exported to the Netherlands and also to other parts of the world. Those currents buy influence in our country, fly radical and alien imams into and spread poisonous ideas. In that radicalized version of Islam, I wouldn't be standing here like this right now. I would have been mutilated by circumcision, banished to an invisible inner world where women are supposed to be only obedient. The freedom to be who we want to be, to say what we want to say and to be the boss of our own body, we must protect and defend. The cabinet wants to combat unwanted foreign financing and the problematic behaviour that results from it. The PvdA Group supports that line. The cabinet makes a number of proposals, and I have questions about that. In the letter, the cabinet announces that there will be an investigation to see whether and how money flows from countries can be limited when our cherished freedoms are abused. Can the Minister explain the nature and design of the investigation and have any measures in mind? How does the cabinet view the cooperation with the Islamic umbrella organisations? They abhor this idea and have a great interest in reducing this undesirable funding. How is contact with them considered whether they themselves have proposals to counter this? How are municipalities involved? If I have heard it correctly, other colleagues have already asked for it, including Mr Van Ojik, the cabinet is proposing to distinguish between free and non-free countries as one of the criteria for combating unwanted foreign funding. Can the Minister say more about how that criterion is being fulfilled? What is free and what is unfree? How's that gonna work in practice? Then I have a question for Minister Blok. It's a problem that doesn't just play in the Netherlands, I told you. Other countries inside and outside Europe are also poisoned with reprehensible ideas. To what extent does the Minister consult with other countries about their interventions and how does he raise these issues when he talks to colleagues from countries from which these undesirable flows of money come? Then I have another question about the disclosure of the information obtained from countries such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Qatar. In replying to the written questions, I read that in the inter-departmental coordination, that information was "not shared by mistake'. How will the cabinet shape the coordination between departments in the coming period? How is relevant information shared with municipalities? We have already heard that it is not enough to assume that one municipality shares information with another. I also agree with Mr Van Ojik on this point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u118	Thank you. Mr Sjoerdsma has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u119	I think I fully agree with a very large part of Mrs Ploumen's speech. I won't ask her to reflect on the previous cabinet; I don't think that's so fancy. I would like to ask her if she would support my plea for a re-examination, because the study could not have taken place last time as we would have liked to see it. I think it's necessary to do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u120	I have, of course, heard Mr Sjoerdsma's proposal. I read in the cabinet's replies that there has been cooperation in good conscience, so I would very much like to hear a reflection from the cabinet on this. Then I would like to hear how Mr Sjoerdsma would like to design such an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u121	I would have read that as well: "to the best of my conscience." If I do that, I can see that access to the Gulf States has actually been dissuaded by someone from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that contact with Dutch ambassadors in that region has been virtually denied or made difficult. That list was actually handed over by an employee of the Ministry of Social Affairs to those researchers by mistake, but then not explained by the Ministry. I would like to mention three examples that come up to me, but there are others. Then I find 'honour and conscience' here a rather big word and then I hope that I will find Mrs Ploumen by my side after the explanation from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u122	I sympathise with Mr Sjoerdsma when he asks: how exactly should I fill in honour and conscience in the light of other information we have received as a Chamber? Like Mr Sjoerdsma, I would very much like to hear from the cabinet how they see it. Then I'd like to talk about it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u123	RAND Europe has issued a statement which reflects on the way things are going. In that light, "honour and conscience" is very difficult to sustain. Five years ago, I filed a motion: do that investigation. That's been held for a year. Then that information got there by mistake, because a Social Affairs official forwarded it. That was not the intention at all: the Foreign Office did not share that information. How do you assess this state of affairs? How do you look back on the fact that we had a debate after debate? Everyone has mentioned their own motion, so yes, I call mine again. So many motions have been tabled. So many things have been said: for once we want to know what is going on. It's just being countered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u124	Mr Segers has heard me ask a number of questions to the cabinet, not just how this information is now being developed in the future. I have also asked for an appreciation of "to honour and conscience." Let us then fill in this question a little more broadly: please also have a reflection of the cabinet, as Mr Segers asks, on how that research has been conducted and how they are assessing the letter from the researchers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u125	I actually asked for a reflection of the PvdA Group. He's not coming. But then there is Mr Sjoerdsma's question. We now see that information has been accidentally sent to researchers, and not all information, because Kuwait, for example, did not get on that list. We also see that, in my view, it has been a flawed investigation, in which we actually felt, in the end, 'hey, this is very unsatisfactory'. Now we know why it was unsatisfactory. Considering all this, isn't there every reason to say that we want a new investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u126	As I said to Mr Sjoerdsma and, in fact, to Mr Segers, because they act as one man here: I do indeed like to hear the appreciation of the cabinet on how that investigation was carried out. And how do they appreciate "honour and conscience"? So I like to hear that. That is why we have the debate and then we would like to discuss it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u127	Mrs Ploumen just referred to the conversation with the mosque domes. They have been cancelled; perhaps you know that, perhaps you don't. At least they have dropped out, at least there is one left over because they had the idea that rules and legislation were made specifically for the mosques. They said: we should actually do this more broadly, so we would like to talk further, if there are the same rules not only for Muslims and mosques, but for all religious organisations. So they're not coming to the table anymore. What do you think of that given? How do you view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u128	I have also asked questions about this to the cabinet. I would like to ask them: are they in consultation with all umbrella organisations? I think it would be wise to hear from the cabinet whether that is the case, what message they are going to give and whether there are any answers. Look, Mr Azarken and I very much agree that it is very important to involve everyone here as much as possible in order to resolve this problem, which affects all people of good will, let us also be clear about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u129	Finally. Finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u130	My question was: do you think there should be such a covenant specifically with mosques, or should that apply to all religious organisations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u131	I believe that Mr Heerma also referred to it and I should like to join him in that regard: we are a country in which freedom of religion is a priority. We are also a country of equal monks, equal hoods, I say as a Catholic. We are also a country in which we have to defend freedom together, which means that I can stand here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u132	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u133	I have noticed, overlooking this dossier in the run-up to this debate, that this issue has been under discussion for years. I am not responsible for the fact that it has not progressed, because for the first time I have commented on this matter. But I can imagine from those colleagues who have worked hard to bring about something on this issue that they are caught by deep displeasure and disappointment, because nothing has happened at all. If I follow the history of this issue, no new information has been given. We don't have any insight yet and we haven't learned anything about the targeted approach to dreaded money flows: nothing at all! There is no prospect of improvement either, and the voluntary cooperation of the umbrella organisations is certainly not to be found. The Community does not at all show the intense need to strive for transparency. There will never be such transparency, because you have to address requests to non-free countries, as I understand, and that is all on a voluntary basis. Well, figure it out! Of course, that's not gonna work. Yeah, this is what I read, and that closes the door. On 26 April, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment wrote: "There is no reliable, transparent information about foreign finance." Well, done. Let me ask you a question: has there been an increase in information and has it turned out to be unreliable? Can we give an indication of what information has come to the government, which therefore proved not to be reliable? The Minister's answer also contains such a despondent phrase. Question 9 asks: "In what cases are money flows from abroad already being dealt with?" The answer: "We will then share the concerns with the country in question." That's a good thing: we're gonna share concerns with the country in question. Well, that's gonna be a very nice meeting with mutual understanding, and you're gonna be sent with a piece of shit in the reeds. But nowhere do you find a shadow or shadow of future policies that should make it clear where those money flows come from, and if they are suspicious, how to stop them. The dome association of mosques is also spoken in arren weary. That party did not go on, because the dome associations felt that it was too much aimed at the Muslims. Well, you've got to live under a rock if you don't know we're gonna have to look in that direction right now if we're gonna see what happens to the pennies. My speaking time is four minutes, Mr President, so I must get on with it. Is the government aware of the committee of inquiry set up in Belgium at the Grand Mosque in Brussels, which did carry out research and did bite through? That committee was sent by the mosque directors with a rug in the reeds. They were told there's nothing wrong with Saudi Arabia. They've been working through the committee and they're gonna find out that Saudi Arabia is in it. And then they broke all the contacts, because Saudi Arabia doesn't believe them anymore either. Is that something the government's taking with it? And then there's a solution. There has to be talk with these dome associations again; you have to have it, otherwise the hell will break out. What if the government goes there and says the following? If it turns out that, in a mosque or from an educational establishment, religious sharpeners are once again standing up preaching messages in which this is the permanent repertoire of women's rights being violated, homosexuals are beaten and unbelievers are, well, in an ominous way being dealt with and it has to be paid off, then you must bear in mind that we are putting Article 140 of the Code of Criminal Law in motion. That's new, and that it's never been done is special. That article is about prosecuting a criminal organization. The government could then say: we consider your messengers, imams and scribes, along with the government that facilitates this, as participants in a criminal organization, for you are violating the law and that is also the purpose. What are they violating? Articles 137c and 137d. Because that's what they do with these statements. Then the whole spectacle about these pennies is solved a little bit, because if those people are prosecuted and convicted for that, then you can also confiscate the means with which they commit these crimes. Mosque gone and the funds, too. And that smells because that's probably how these poisonous funds get into the soothing setting of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the state coffin. All's well that ends well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u134	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u135	I understand that the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment will begin. The Minister for Foreign Affairs then follows and finally the Minister for Legal Protection replies. I call the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u136	Thank you, Madam President. I don't see all the MPs sitting around. As far as choreography is concerned, I shall first address the questions that have been asked to me about the process and the sharing of information. The Foreign Minister, Mr Blok, will then comment on the diplomatic side and also on the RAND investigation. Finally, the Minister for Legal Protection, Mr Dekker, will address the transparency bill and the debate on anbi and banks. I think that covers all the subjects. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Chamber for its questions about unwanted funding. I have heard the concerns of your Chamber well, concerns about foreign funding, especially if it goes hand in hand with unwanted foreign influence and problematic behavior. The cabinet is also concerned about this. They are concerns that not only live with the mayors, with the mosque visitors and in your Chamber, it is the concerns that the cabinet shares with you. Because I too find it disgusting when I hear an imam in a Dutch mosque talking about female circumcision, slaves or stoning. These are messages that are contrary to Dutch standards and values. However, it is important to make a distinction in this debate. Because these undesirable messages and behaviours are not always linked to foreign financing. Civil society and religious organisations in the Netherlands are free to attract funding from abroad, for the construction of a church, a temple or a mosque, for example. It becomes problematic if this funding from abroad goes hand in hand with ideological influence that contributes to antidemocratic, anti-integrative and intolerant behaviour. For that, and you have all indicated it today, has a negative and also undesirable effect on the relations in our society. People are being set up against each other or against the government, and it also makes sure that integration is countered and that people shut down or even turn away from our society. Tackling this kind of behavior is not easy, and I have to be honest about that. For although we agree that this behaviour is undesirable, it is in most cases not punishable; recently your Chamber has had a debate on it. So it is a search for how we can act as effectively and effectively as possible, within the framework of our rule of law, involving the religious communities themselves as much as possible. For most mosque authorities are not waiting for outside interference with what is happening in their mosque. Municipalities also have an important role to play in this. They are often in direct contact with the local mosque authorities. They can support mosques when there are problems, but they can also appeal to unwanted behavior. However, municipalities also have the task of acting if dialogue or addressing has no effect. The Empire can support municipalities. Close cooperation, mutual trust and involvement between municipalities and the Empire are therefore essential. As I said, the policy on unwanted foreign financing is a complex theme. The previous cabinet has started the new policy to counter this and this approach has been under construction and under continuous development since 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u137	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u138	No, I'm still working on my introduction, but I saw Mrs Karabulut standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u139	I don't know how long that introduction is, but I would suggest you finish it first. Then Mrs Karabulut will have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u140	Yes. This approach has been under construction and under continuous development since 2016. At this stage of construction, I also indicated this in the letter I sent to the Chamber yesterday. The implementation of the policy has not always gone smoothly. For example, I have noted that information sharing with municipalities has started late. It is also important to note that data often contain outdated and summary information which is difficult to verify. We can do this and we have to do this better. My aim is to give the best possible support to municipalities in the provision of information. There are a number of concrete steps that the cabinet wants to launch against unwanted foreign funding. A number of steps have been taken by the cabinet to counter unwanted foreign funding. For example, legislation, improving information sharing and cooperation with municipalities, consultation with the communities concerned, diplomatic engagement and mapping the funding flows that can be directly or indirectly linked to terrorism or its financing. That is the so-called FEC pilot, which is being extended for two years. The Minister for Legal Protection will be discussing the legislative proposals on transparency in the near future. Mr Blok will comment on the diplomatic side. At the end of March, we sent a letter to your Chamber about the legislative proposals on transparency and the exploration of funding flows from non-free countries that will be developed this autumn. I shall come back to that in a moment to answer a number of specific questions. As indicated above, undesirable foreign funding is about tackling problematic behaviour. In order to enable municipalities to deal with this properly and in good time, two things are important: rapid and correct information and opportunities for effective action in the municipalities and the government. I have heard that very clearly from your Chamber today, and I agree with her. The first step is to bring together the knowledge and information of all relevant parties within the government. From there, the Empire can support and advise municipalities more firmly and more actively. We also received the letter from Mayor Krikke. Last Monday, Mr Dekker and I visited the mayor of The Hague to talk to her about questions like "what do you run into in practice?', "How do you handle that information?" And "what can you do with it?" The image that also emerges from this mayor's letter is: yes, that information is there, but what can we do with it? What can we do with it in practice? How can it be given an action perspective? How do we ensure that information is shared in good time, including with the municipalities? In practice, they stand in the mud with their hands and feet and have to deal daily with the consequences of unwanted behaviour. I will come back to that in a moment too. The first step is therefore better to bring together the knowledge and information of all relevant parties. From there, the Empire can better and firmer support municipalities and advise them on how to act in practice. But it also helps to have one clear point of contact for the municipalities. It is often a search for who they should have when faced with a problem. We are currently working out how to best serve municipalities in this area as a state government. Because it may be confidential information, for example information that becomes available or from foreign traffic or from the services, it is a search for how to deal with it. Part of that information can't just be shared. So it's always a complex situation. We really need to take steps forward to make this work better. This requires clear procedural arrangements on who is responsible for what and how it ends up where it should end up. It may also require a strengthened legal framework in response to your questions. It is therefore a question of powers at municipal level in order to be able to intervene effectively. The Minister for the Interior is also carrying out a number of reconnaissances. It examines the possibilities for municipalities to address unwanted behaviour and what is needed for that purpose. Of course, this also fits in with the distinction between unwanted behaviour that we want to prevent and criminal behaviour. Of course, criminal behavior can simply be prosecuted by the Public Prosecutor. We have clear agreements on that. Some things are punishable, but this is often about unwanted behaviour, as Mr Van Ojik pointed out in his term. It is about unwanted behaviour that we do want to combat, for which we also have this three-track approach. Step three of that is disrupting it. So we're also working with municipalities to find out how we're going to disrupt that. How can we give them hands, feet and teeth? This may indeed include an adjustment of the legal frameworks. This is also part of the conversations we have with municipalities and the explorations that run on different routes. It is about the path of financing from non-free countries, the exploration of the Minister of the Interior about supporting local government and transparency, making it clear where funding ends up. We are working in several areas to strengthen this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u141	I think you're done with the introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u142	Just a few words, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u143	I shall now give Mrs Karabulut the floor. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u144	I do want to go back to the introduction. I heard the minister say, "We'll talk to municipalities, local partners and communities." I was reminded of three years ago. Three years ago we were promised this and now, three years later, we are standing here again with a new minister, who promises this again. But we are not standing here because the Minister has said that this approach has failed. We are standing here because this has been addressed in the news and because there is pressure from society. My question to the Minister is how it is possible that the government has left municipalities and local communities so terribly in the lurch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u145	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I would like to appeal to everyone to keep the interruptions short, because the first period has got a little out of hand. Otherwise, I'm gonna be a little strict.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u146	I recognize, also looking back at the past, that has been discussed many times in the Chamber. There have also been frequent motions to address foreign funding, including indeed a motion from the SP and the VVD. Looking back at what happened in practice, I also see a great deal of commitment to doing something with this, but I also see a hesitation: how are we going to deal with this? In the letter I sent to the Chamber yesterday, I also made it clear that the information sharing was too late. There was information. It also ended up in the department, but the municipalities were informed too late. That started in September 2017. I very much agree with Mrs Karabulut's question: it could have been done much faster. It also asks for some explanation or colouring of this data. These are lists of applications for funding which are not clear whether the funding has actually taken place. One of the people's quests at the Ministry of Social Affairs was: what can we do with this information, how can we actually support municipalities to do something with it, and how can we put that information on other information when we see that there is indeed unwanted behavior or developments in the direction of unwanted behavior? This is the search. At the same time, I indicated in my introduction that at least we are not ready and that we also need a number of additional instruments, both legal instruments, such as Mr Dekker's proposal for transparency and my own exploration of the unfree flows, as well as legal means to intervene at municipal level in order to actually link that information to an action perspective. I agree with Mrs Karabulut that this has taken a very long time. That also got started too late. This has also been the subject of valid questions from local authorities, including in the broadcast of Nieuwsuur and in the NRC articles: why have they not been informed about this? Last Monday, for example, I spoke with Mayor Krikke on this subject. One of the things that came up is that we did have information but above that it was "confidential, indiscretionable to share with the council." From the background of this information, I understand that, because that information comes from diplomatic movements or from the movement of the services, but that does lead to the local mayor being put in some kind of procedural embarrassment: "What can I do with it if I cannot disclose this information?" This quest must be streamlined and improved by the three of us and perhaps even more ministers in the cabinet. We need to tighten up procedures and make sure that the municipalities are effectively informed and are able to intervene effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u147	Does the Minister therefore recognise that the Chamber was simply misinformed in 2015, 2016 and 2017 because it was repeatedly argued that this was communicated to municipalities and that it was consulted with municipalities and local communities? Now research by Nieuwsuur shows that two thirds of these municipalities say that this information has not been shared. We have also seen very concrete examples of this from Dordrecht, Geleen and The Hague. Even sadder: people who knock at the same municipalities and the same government are simply rejected. So that's different than "it should have been better." This just didn't go well. I would like a little more text and explanation: who was it with? Was that indeed because you were not allowed to act from the State Department, which set out diplomatic interests and relations with the Gulf States?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u148	I understand Mrs Karabulut's frustration, particularly in view of the background to the debate in recent years. As far as the last specific question is concerned, the answers to all the questions put to us by the Foreign Affairs Committee, which we sent to you together yesterday with the letter, also show the facts: what happened when, when was what shared and at what times was that shared? Part of the very first list, which has ever been kept confidential for inspection by the Chamber at the end of 2013, has not been shared until I say that from my head September 2017. There's a very long time in between. That's just lying around too long. At the same time, I note that since 2017, municipalities have been informed about these lists, but there has been a question: they are applications for funding that we do not know whether they actually took place, so what exactly should we do with these lists?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u149	I am talking very specifically about the role of Social Affairs. The fact that those lists were not shared and not shared in time and that that information was not shared is one, but two is that each time it was communicated to the Chamber that there was consultation, that that information was passed on and that it was acted upon. Agreements would be drawn up and all kinds of concrete agreements made, but none of them ultimately led to any result.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u150	I want to separate the different subjects. 1. The fact that we sent you yesterday shows at what time what was shared. This clearly shows that since September 2017, municipalities have been informed step by step about the data contained in those lists. That is late; I agree with Mrs Karabulut immediately. 2. In November 2017, when journalists from Nieuwsuur and NRC started calling municipalities, were you informed about this information? I've decided to share that information as soon as possible. I believe that Mr Segers also asked a question about this just in his first term. That is precisely what I did to prevent municipalities from being informed through the media that these lists were available. So on that point too late, I very much agree with Mrs Karabulut. That's what I said in the letter. There's a whole story to it. In all the written answers, you have also been able to read how that was created and where the opposition was. The danger was that, if this information were shared or made public, there would be a risk that that information would no longer be provided. I believe that Minister Blok also indicated this during Question Time on 24 April. Well, Minister Blok will deal specifically with that. Another point is the covenant. I also mentioned this in the written set that was sent to you yesterday. The picture has emerged that it was a voluntary way of making unwanted funding transparent. I have concluded that this was too optimistic, because there was actually already from the beginning of this trajectory in the various domes of scepticism: does this result? I would like to say a few words about the role of the domes in response to questions put by Mrs Ploumen. In my view, I also made it clear in yesterday's written set that the expectation, the picture, that this could be settled on a voluntary basis through a covenant, was too optimistic. That also brings us to this situation, where we are really looking for action perspectives and handles.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u151	The Minister wants to improve the information given to municipalities and also wants municipalities to be able to take more action on the basis of the information they receive. But of course municipalities also have a lot of useful information themselves. It is evident from local signals, from stories they hear from a mosque, from reports of people who are concerned. What I believe is also being asked is that local signals should be used nationwide to enrich the information that is already available. The information of banks, the information of the services and the information from diplomatic channels then comes together with the information of municipalities. They also ask the Empire to act more, for example by freezing money flows.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u152	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u153	Does Minister Koolmees share that it is not just a matter for the municipalities, that they should have a more active perspective and that this information should also be used more nationally?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u154	I very much share that. This is, of course, also at the heart of the three-track approach that has been developed in recent years. Once again, for the sake of clarity, criminal behaviour must not and must be prosecuted by the prosecution, clearly. This is always about undesirable behavior, about behavior that ravages our rule of law, our values and our freedom. Of this, we all say that today I also hear Chambers everywhere that we must reduce this, that we must tackle it. Besides, it's always searching: if it's not a criminal offence, how are you gonna disrupt it, how are you gonna handle it? At municipal level, there is indeed a lot of information about what happens in the mosque, in the street or in an organization: what kind of activities do we see, what imams do we see? It is crucial to share or add that information to that other information, for example information about foreign funding, for example signals from services that something is not going well or that something is not going well. Bringing this information together can ensure that a municipality gets an action perspective, where the Empire can also support and advise. That's what's gonna happen. The Social Stability Expertise Unit of the Ministry of Social Affairs supports the municipalities in the case law, in the approach, so in how matters can best be solved. Indeed, it often starts with addressing, talking to mosque authorities, asking questions: we see this happening, what is going on, what are you going to do about it? It ends with step three of the three-track approach: disrupting it, when we really see undesirable things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u155	But isn't the problem with this current three-track approach that it's all about talking, and sometimes sharing information and supporting municipalities in dealing with that information? Is the problem not correct that there is no real perseverance force, invested in one place, with which it can be said: we now have so many grounds on the basis of all the different channels from which we get information. Shouldn't the list of all these grounds lead to intervention much more quickly, rather than drinking all those cups of tea?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u156	I would like to continue this debate in a nuanced manner. Cups of tea? If you're talking to the mayors about the cities involved, it's not about drinking cups of tea. Then it is really about clear signals, about setting limits on what is happening. Because there is that distinction between what is criminal and what is undesirable, what is the line between the three-track approach and, let me put it this way, the criminal approach of the prosecution, we can see in practice that there is discomfort at that interface. I believe that Mr Heerma said this literally in his text: inconvenience about the perspective of action; what else can we do here? I have already indicated in my introduction that the cabinet is looking for a legal basis. That could be the Law Bibob, which is now being explored. It may also be administrative agreements that already exist, such as an already imposed area ban. We want to see how we can strengthen that legal basis, so that the municipality, the mayor, also has more scope for action. The tricky thing is, of course, always: if certain behaviour is not punishable, what is the legal title for intervention? Therefore, in practice, it remains a search for how specific undesirable behaviour can really be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u157	Madam President. I would like to look back briefly and then look forward to sharing information with the municipalities. In my recollection, one more sigh. The minister says it all should have been better. But we can see that the initiators of debates like this were Newshour and NRC, who came up with new information. That's extremely painful, isn't it? After five years of debate and so many motions, I find that really a point of frustration. Well, I guess I'll just have to put it out like that. I hope, on the other hand, that there is understanding of that frustration. Now looking forward to the municipalities. The Minister says that it is all very complicated and difficult to know whether money has actually been transferred. But if the same Nieuwsuur and NRC can come out with this information and know exactly who said what when, what was financed with it, what statements were made, then the government, a very large ministry, with the AIVD, with all the local authorities, can do that, can't they? It would be far less complicated than what is being proposed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u158	First of all, I understand that frustration. And I also feel that frustration in this Chamber is widely shared. I recognize that one. Looking back at all the examples that came along in Nieuwsuur and NRC, you can see that there were all kinds of signals, that there were indications for funding applications, that there were also all kinds of signs of unwanted behaviour. However, in practice it remains complicated, especially for local government, to act on it. I saw the mayors Krikke and Kolff at Nieuwsuur last Monday. The mayor said he didn't know this was going on. If you don't know... For the sake of clarity, this is not a single reproach to the mayor, who should have been better informed. But you can see the search: what can I do here, how can I intervene here? The government, or rather the governments, so both the government and the local government, are looking for an action perspective and legal bases. Then there are indications or signals that things are going wrong, but there is no legal basis for actually intervening on them, because the "to say the domestic' is still in the non-criminal part. That distortion variant, the last step of the three-track approach, is precisely about the perspective of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u159	I get that last part. Proposals have indeed been made now and this exploration is taking place. But one step before that is information, sharing information, and then acting. Sometimes that's called a little bathinating tea drinking. News hour has gone to tea, I believe in Dordrecht, and has found out that, while the list speaks of an amount of over 88,000...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u160	Dollar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u161	...dollar that was transferred, that amount was transferred twice. How did they find out? Call it in. Just call it in. A local government can do that. Then you already have information that allows you to go to such a mosque association and first of all open the conversation. If you find, like here in The Hague, that there are statements about women's circumcision, about Shiites, about Kurds, about Jews, Christians, etc., then you can still act. After all, there is a subsidy relationship between the local government and the as-Soennah mosque. So give that information to the city. Yeah, we're embarrassed, we're embarrassed, and we're looking for that legal basis. It's gotta be legal. It's gotta be good. I fully agree with the Minister. But before that there is a phase in which Newshour has achieved more in one month than we have debated for five years in five years and then ministries with five years of searching for information and opportunities to share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u162	I don't know if I can draw that final conclusion. I agree with Mr Segers that the information position really needs to be improved. The information that is available, in different services, in different state authorities, must also be sent to those municipalities to act. I very much agree with Mr Segers. This is one of the major challenges that the Mayor of The Hague, Mrs Krikke, for example, is calling for. As a cabinet, we must work on this in order to improve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u163	The Minister says: yes, it is true, it was all too slow and it was also sensitive information so it was all difficult. But it remains difficult and complex, as he points out. So I'm just looking for the reason why we can now trust that this slowness from the past is really being overcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u164	The cabinet is very ambitious in this area. During this period, for example, we started a process of bringing greater transparency to foundations and religious institutions on the receiving side, where the money ends up. That's what Minister Dekker's about to say. That bill's coming up for the summer. My exploration of these unfree countries is coming in the autumn. At the same time, we really need to work with the municipalities to make this improvement, to improve that information, to improve quality, and to get it to the right people. I wrote yesterday in the letter that it was both too late and did not end well. This Minister is very motivated to improve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u165	Thank you for that answer. But then towards the future: the Minister will continue to explore the area of limiting the undesirable financial flows. But why the "possible"? Why the "maybe"? Why doesn't he say a little firmer that we need to tighten up and we need to look for the way in which that should be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u166	I understand Mr Van der Staaij's question very well, also given what has changed in this area in recent years with this Chamber, or indeed with the previous Chamber. Honesty commands that that too is complex. In the first period, for example, we talked about financing by foreign governments, while the question is whether this is actually being done by foreign governments. Or are they foundations based in a country? I don't know who said it. Yes, it was Mr Van Ojik. He mentioned RIHS, which was located in different countries, in Kuwait but also in other countries. So these are not public institutions, but they are funding flows from those countries, which the government has no control over either. So this is not just about funding from public authorities, but also about funding from private foundations. That's one part of the reconnaissance. The second part of the exploration is how you deal with the free movement of capital. Suppose you can ban it as the Netherlands, how do you deal with the European free movement of capital, whereby it is paid up via Germany or through another EU country and still ends up in the Netherlands? These are all very practical legal questions, which need to be properly explored before you can start such a legislative process. The aim is very clear: we want to hinder the money flows that have this kind of effect on unwanted behaviour in society. It's just that it's a search for how to give those hands and feet and how to do it in such a way that it's legal, because if it doesn't stand up legally, we haven't taken a step forward. It must really contribute to solving this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u167	Finally. I still wonder why it is not said a little more firmly: we are not going to see whether the framework needs to be tightened, but we are going to see if we can tighten it up best. Then you put a little more pressure on the exploration that is taking place than the question is again whether it is necessary and desirable to tighten up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u168	In my view, it is particularly important that we share the objective and there is no misunderstanding in the Chamber about this. The goal is: how do we prevent unwanted funding from abroad in Dutch society, resulting in potentially unwanted behaviour? That's the goal. Several instruments are aimed at this. Transparency can help. Reducing funding flows from non-free countries can help. The scope for action, the legal basis, as I have mentioned, for effective action at local level, can also help. The objective is very clear and I am very motivated to do so. There's a search for working instruments. I can say something really cool, but if I find out a year later that it doesn't last, we're not even a step further. It's mostly about the goal, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u169	In my view, the Chamber is actually saying from left to right: we should not explain the red carpet for unfree ideologies. That starts with better sharing of information with the municipalities. That is what the Minister says: it happened too late, it did not always happen well, it should be done better. I would still ask him to reflect a little on one case from the past, just to illustrate what happens if that division takes place too late. I'm talking about the case of the Al-Fath mosque in Dordrecht. In 2013, information was already known about a transfer. In 2017, the information was shared. In the meantime, an extreme preacher has arrived, with statements that have all just been mentioned and where our hairs stand. The mayor wasn't aware of this, but he would have liked to be. How does the Minister judge these four years? What risks have we taken? He writes in the letter: no security risks. I am relieved about this, but of course there are more risks than safety risks. I'm shocked by this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u170	I understand this question from Mr Sjoerdsma very well. Of course, I am also shocked by these images in the Nieuwsuur broadcast. The passage in the letter on security risks relates in particular to terrorist financing. That's what this is linked to. I very much agree with Mr Sjoerdsma that this information could have been very helpful. I always say that in a subtlety. I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma. I have also tried to acknowledge this in the letter sent to the Chamber yesterday: this information sharing has started too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u171	I think that's good. We are now asking for this information sharing with municipalities to be put in order as soon as possible. It doesn't feel right that that still doesn't happen. It...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u172	Correction: since September 2017 and in November 2017, the available information from that list has been shared with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u173	I'll allow the Minister to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u174	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u175	But I have one more question about this. This is about the systematic sharing. I very much encourage that those lists were shared at the time. I'd like that. Here is the question: how is it going to be done systematically? That brings me to a specific question. In one of the letters I have just lost in which of the many letters we have received, there is one more example of a request from Kuwait that has not yet been shared with the Chamber. My specific question is: is that even shared with the municipality concerned? That seems to me to be an important case, an important litmus test, to see if that goes well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u176	Because of my support, yes is nodded, so this is indeed shared with the municipality. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u177	I understand very well what the Minister is saying. It's a search, it's complex, there's discomfort.... that word he used.... because sometimes different freedoms collide, to put it simply. I think it will help if the cabinet, even more than the minister is doing now, is very explicit about what we are looking for, what exactly is the purpose of the search. I sometimes hear: prohibition, I hear obstruction, I hear limitation, I hear obstruction when it comes from unfree countries, I hear obstruction when it leads to certain unwanted forms of expression in the Netherlands. Those are all different categories. And I do not mean that in a legal sense, because it will be legally complicated. But I do need it myself, to be precise: what is the purpose of this quest, what is the purpose of this exploration, what does the cabinet want and what does the cabinet not want? I'd like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u178	Mr. Chairman. I understand this question from Mr Van Ojik. At the same time, it is also very difficult to answer precisely, because of all the examples that have come through here today, Chamberwide. I myself called it repulsive. They're all examples that we don't want all of us. At the same time, circumcision, girl circumcision, is forbidden. It's a criminal offence. If it happens, it can be prosecuted. This is not the case in a mosque, but in a sermon make a recommendation to it. I find that disgusting. The act is punishable, making the call is undesirable. And just when it comes to the undesirable character, things that we do not want with all of us, we must also have instruments to push it back. This is indeed about anti-integrative, anti-emancipatory behaviour, which we do not want in the Netherlands. That's the point. Then there are so many different examples where, for example, the expression is punishable but the conversation about it is different, complicated, not criminal, but undesirable. So it is indeed about which policy instruments, what actions and what legal bases you have in a kind of civil service term: a perspective of action as a government and as a local government in order to intervene there. A number of times has been suggested: closing mosques. Then you're really in a criminal situation. This is really about the situation before that, where the behavior is undesirable. There is an escalation ladder for that, for which we have the three-track approach, and that just starts with talking to each other: I see something happening here that we, as a municipality, as a municipality, find undesirable in practice, and which may eventually lead to a disturbance, but it is not exactly cutting off with a knife. That is one of the difficult discussions, therefore, I am also pleased that Mr Van Ojik has been asking this question over the past few years: the search for criminal or undesirable. We're right in the middle of that. That is actually Mayor Krikke's call: give us more instruments, just to intervene before it is punishable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u179	I understand very well what the Minister is saying. I also pointed out in my first term that there are certain things that are perhaps very undesirable but not necessarily criminal. But now I'm talking about foreign finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u180	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u181	When we talk about hindering, restricting, banning; that is what this debate is about. Not alone, but what else would you want? I understand there's a reconnaissance going on, and I understand that it might open or close all kinds of legal avenues. But what do we want? There is something about it in the coalition agreement, there is something about it in the letter sent to us by the Minister yesterday. There have been a lot of motions in this Chamber. What exactly is it we want? Do we want to ban it? Do we want to obstruct? Do we want to limit it when it comes from unfree countries? I am not going to repeat that, Madam President, I can see from your face that this is not necessarily desirable, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u182	I think Mr Van der Staaij has just read out the passage from the bound version of the coalition agreement on this point. It is indeed about exploring the possibilities of restricting money flows from non-free countries, especially when it is aimed at undesirable behaviour, anti-integrative behaviour. I also said in my introduction that foreign funding is not prohibited. In fact, we do it the other way around. The Netherlands also gives money to other countries or NGOs operating in other countries via the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. It is about the goal; I have just tried to formulate this towards Mr Van der Staaij. The aim is therefore: do these flows of money go hand in hand with intervention, the promotion of anti-integrative behaviour or influence? So the reconnaissance focuses on that goal. The 2015 motion calls for a generic ban on all funding flows. That option was explored by my predecessor in the previous period. That's legally very complicated. But when it comes to the funding flows aimed at stimulating anti-integrative behaviour or influence, we are looking for the perspective of action, in order to be able to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u183	If I may, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u184	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u185	Finally, I have one point to clarify. I myself referred to the example of the Minister who just referred to that Kuwaiti NGO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u186	RIHS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u187	That may not be the purpose to be here an intolerant... At least, it will not explicitly say that the purpose of that funding is to promote an intolerant Islam here. But that club is no good; I know it. I don't even need a reconnaissance for that, so to speak. What are you gonna do in such a case? What do you want? Are you saying that's not gonna happen? Or are you saying that it will have to be demonstrated first, and that seems to me to be the search; that is why it is also important that you make clear what you are looking for, that the mosque financed by that Kuwaiti institution allows intolerant sermons to take place here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u188	The example mentioned by Mr Van Ojik is an illustration of how complicated it is, because the foundation he is talking about has locations in different countries. Then you have to deal with different jurisdictions and different forms of foundation. Some parts are on sanction lists in certain countries, for example those of the US. Others are on EU or UN lists and others are not. As a former diplomat, Mr Van Ojik knows how the international legal order and lists of this kind are created. That is precisely one of the search for the international legal basis: which organisations do belong to it and which organisations do not belong to it? Mr Van Ojik can say that this foundation is no good. But I think it is very wise to ensure that it is legally maintained that it is also recorded somewhere, and that we also have a basis for that. For example, there are several sanction lists and prohibition lists on which countries and foundations stand. The idea is to be able to go along with it. In fact, I was not going to say too much about the content today, because it is just an ongoing exploration, but I understand very well why Mr Van Ojik is asking this question. That's why I'd like to outline the dilemmas you're facing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u189	The minister writes that civil society and religious organisations are free to attract money from abroad. He states that in some cases this is accompanied by ideological influence. My question to the Minister is very simple: in what percentage of cases is it about undesirable influence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u190	It is impossible for me to give an answer to that. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u191	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u192	There is talk of what laws and rules still need to be proposed and what remains to be discussed here in the Chamber. In doing so, I get the feeling that the Minister is a little out of his responsibilities. I'm hooking up with the Dordrecht case. That application is from 2010. That information had been known to the government for four years. Following the WOB request of Nieuwsuur and after parliamentary questions, that information was shared. That was in 2017. The consequence is that there have been terrorist-related preachings and that the administration has been pushed aside. This is an example of how jihadism and jihadist preachers have gained space in the Netherlands. My question to the Minister is, now that he has this responsibility, and over the past three years, despite all the promises to the Chamber, those communities and local mosque authorities have been abandoned, what he is going to do today to prevent the government from abandoning them again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u193	What I already did, in November 2017, two weeks after the cabinet had taken office, is to share the information we had with all the municipalities. That's also in pieces sent to the Chamber. The reason was that journalists started calling municipalities with this information. I thought that was a wrong picture, also because municipalities would be robbed. So I thought this information should be shared. In November 2017, the information that was known was also the last case that Mr Sjoerdsma asked about, that from Kuwait, shared with the municipalities. I am very motivated to improve this process and to ensure that, if there are any signals, they are shared with the municipalities more quickly and with more quality. Mrs Karabulut's first question was about avoiding responsibilities, but that was her wording. In my opinion, the letter I sent to the Chamber makes it clear that information has come to light too late. I'm not running away from that. I think I wrote that down explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u194	It is quite right and proper that the Minister should acknowledge this, because it has simply failed. What I mean by avoiding responsibility is: it is also rather weedy that the minister is going to improve the process, as he calls it, but what is he going to do today with all these local small mosques, not the big screams that oil dollars get, but all those small local mosques, with people with an Islamic background who don't want to do this and with municipalities who don't know how to act? What is he now going to do with them as Minister of Integration to live up to what was promised a few years ago and to make up for what has not been done in recent years, namely to help them, to help them move forward? I should also like the Minister to acknowledge that this is at least a major obstacle to integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u195	I have already said this in my introduction, namely that this hinders integration, that this stimulates polarisation and that this is very undesirable, first and foremost for the Muslim community itself. Mr Heerma gave a poignant example of Geleen in his first term. So I very much agree with that. The Ministry of Social Affairs has the expertise to ensure social stability. In this context, we are indeed trying to support municipalities and mosques on these issues, but we cannot do it alone. Let's be honest: we can't do it alone. Therefore, Mrs Karabulut calls it a process because we need to use all the information that we have available and which can help to support it at local level, or the municipal administration, or the mosque administration, in order to rebel against this type of behaviour and to counter it. I am very motivated to do so in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u196	I give the Minister the opportunity to take us into the rest of the story, because two other rulers also have to give answers. But there's been a lot of interruptions, and then there's a lot to get rid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u197	Yeah, there's been a lot of interruptions. Mr Heerma and Mr Segers and Mrs Becker asked a specific question about Mayor Krikke's proposal. Mayor Krikke's proposal makes a clear appeal: municipalities need to be better informed and they need to be able to act. As I said, last Monday I visited Mayor Krikke together with my colleague Dekker. We have heard the needs of the municipalities well. We also want to respond as closely as possible to this process, as I have mentioned it, to strengthen it. This means, first of all, that there needs to be stronger support in building up the information position. The Empire can better help in this by strengthening the internal cooperation already established with all relevant parties. Within this partnership act among others the NCTV, SZW, the AIVD and the FEC. These are organisations involved in this problem. Each party does so from its own role and responsibility. We need to make clear agreements on the sharing of information, within the Empire, but also with the municipalities. The aim is, of course, to bring the knowledge and information together better and to ensure that we can identify "multidisciplinary cases," as it is called. We must therefore be able to give together with these municipalities as clear a picture as possible of what is going on and what you could do in practice. From this partnership, from these government organisations, we want to advise the municipalities more firmly and proactively at local level on how to deal with this. To this end, legal options are identified. BZK is working on this and in the autumn the further development of this exploration will come to your Chamber. The second step is, therefore, to identify those perspectives of action that I was talking about for governments, and in addition to that, in the development of new instruments. A number of reconnaissances are in progress. Just for the sake of completeness, let me give you the overview. I'm inclined to repeat, but I'm not going to. The first reconnaissance is my reconnaissance, about unfree countries. The second exploration is the mapping of all the instruments available. Think of the Wet Bibob, but also of the anbi-status. Mr Heerma asked about the possibilities for intervention. It will then be possible to look at what is further needed in order to be able to use these instruments even more effectively in practice. The role of banks is also taken into account. That is what Mr Dekker is going to say. This is also examined in conjunction with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Justice and Security. I think I've had a lot of questions. Mrs Becker's central question was: will there be legislation after the reconnaissance? That's exactly what the reconnaissance needs to show. I have just tried to illustrate to Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Ojik what you then run into. The legislation is, of course, important in order to be able to provide and intervene. That's what the reconnaissance's all about, but that's what that reconnaissance's got to show for it. I cannot anticipate that, but the goal is central.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u198	What would help, in any case, is to know when that exploration is about complete and when we can take steps. I ask this, of course, in the light of the fact that we have had more promises. There has been frustration in the Chamber on this subject. When will we know more? When are we gonna take steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u199	In the letter I wrote "Adult 2018." To make it concrete: October.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u200	Mrs. Becker, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u201	I would like to ask the Minister: is the possible "how" of legislation already included in the exploration? Of course, my central question is there for a reason. We've been talking for years. A lot of reconnaissance has already been done. There's already a lot of information about what might or might not be possible. I really want that to go to the Chamber as soon as possible, so that if there is a reconnaissance, there should not be another review of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u202	Clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u203	I understand Mrs Becker's question very well. Part of that reconnaissance is how you could do that. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u204	I was still chewing on what the Minister said earlier about, for example, the female circumcision. If that happens, it is of course a criminal offence. But if it's just a recommendation, it's "unwanted." Is it not, however, in accordance with Article 131 of the Code of Criminal Law, that it can also be sedition and is, in fact, persecutable? Is this also the way people look at this kind of talk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u205	The Minister for Legal Protection may be able to reply to that in a moment, but this is also looked at by the Public Prosecutor's Office, certainly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u206	That is a small nuance to what the Minister said earlier, namely that it comes purely in the category of 'unwanted' if it is only a recommendation. So it might as well be in the criminal domain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u207	Your Chamber has recently had a debate with the Minister of Justice and Security on the hate immasus, which also showed that it is complicated in practice. But I think Mr Van der Staaij is legally right. I am not a lawyer but an economist, but I think Mr Van der Staaij is legally right. And if the state's attorney's office sees reason for that, then of course it can prosecute if this is going on. Sure. So it's a good thing that nuance is being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u208	I see a minister who is confronted, when we see this week's letter, with the recognition that things that have been said in the past have not happened in practice. In my view, the Minister also says very carefully: I cannot deliver on everything. At the same time, there is also an impatient Chamber, which really wants action. So the question I have about the Minister's closing is next. The exploration is carried out with the integrity to come to that legislation. My specific question is this: is there not only funding from non-free countries, but also from the foreign powers of those non-free countries? That actually affects the interruption debate with Mrs Karabulut and the motion that has been tabled around Diyanet. Is funding from the public authorities themselves also being specifically looked at?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u209	First of all, the second question, namely whether Turkey, for example, is included in this exploration. That is not how the question was asked, but that was the underlying message. The exploration does not exclude any country, so all countries are included. I have just indicated, in my view, to Mr Van Ojik, that sometimes it is about state actors and sometimes about other organisations. So, yeah. Mr Heerma's first question was whether there will be legislation. I am also trying to point out that the aim is to stop these types of funding flows, which aim at disruption or anti-integrative behaviour. The exploration is really aimed at finding out what the right and legally good tools are to make that possible. That's the goal. Mr Heerma is right, however, that experience teaches that you have to be careful with too much promise if you can't make it happen. That is why I may be a little cautious in my wording, but the aim is to strengthen it. This is wider than just the flow of finance, because it is also about the prospects for action. I think I'm so reasonable through the questions. I also see the chairman looking impatient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u210	You've got that right. Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u211	Thank you for all the answers given by the Minister. I do have a supplementary question. Are there also churches in the Netherlands that are followed by the government because of their anti-integrative, undemocratic, non-reciprocal or untolerant message, or where there is a need to talk to their domes to counter that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u212	I can't answer this specifically, because I don't know, and then it's dangerous at this location. But if there are anti-integrative or anti-emancipatory disruptive messages from another institution, such as a church or other religious house or other social organization, then there are certainly opportunities for local government to intervene. To make it concrete: the approach of the outlaw motorcycle gangs is of course also included in the coalition agreement. So, yeah. And if it is true that in a religious environment, for example a church, there is behaviour that we all think is undesirable in the Netherlands, then there is indeed a need to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u213	I specifically mentioned those four examples, because that is a mantra of this government. And it's just that there are no churches in the Netherlands that deliver such a message, otherwise we would have known about it here in the Chamber and discussed it a long time ago. So the answer is just zero. I have a second question, but I just wanted to know if the Minister had the same idea. The second question: how many mosques in the Netherlands are read from the good Koran, the good Hadith and the good biography of Muhammad?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u214	As far as the first question is concerned, I cannot give a concrete example, but if there is a reason, if something happens in a church society, then there is certainly intervention. And that can happen. And two. I can't possibly answer such a specific question about percentages. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u215	Here too, the answer is zero. With this, I want to show that this debate is not progressing at all, because we are only talking about financing from abroad, but not about how bad ideology is. The Minister did not go into that at all. Perhaps the Foreign Minister or the Minister for Legal Protection will be able to say something about this, because I have to answer all my questions to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u216	Then I'd like to finish with the following. Who suffers the most and most directly from these annoying preachers? These are first of all mosque visitors themselves. You can see this in the example of Geleen and in other practical examples. Parents are terrified that their child is being poisoned with bad thoughts when they really don't want to. That is why the Muslim community itself has a great responsibility in dealing with these undesirable influences and with the problematic behavior. The only question that remains open is from Mrs Ploumen. She asks: how is cooperation with the domes going? The domes are also really engaged in increasing the resilience in the community. How can we shape that? There are serious discussions about this and that is indeed just a search. How do we ensure that resilience is increased? Soon I will have a debate with your Chamber on preventive policy in this area as well. Then I will go into more detail about what is happening in practice there. But in this respect there is indeed great commitment from the domes, precisely in order to prevent everyone from being treated in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u217	Mr President, since the Minister is finishing, I do not think I have yet received a comprehensive answer to the question I raised in connection with the case of the Assoenna Mosque. There, municipal funding for integration was given to offer courses and to organise language lessons, while at the same time there was unwanted influence in that mosque. Fortunately, this has stopped, but I would like to ask the Minister for Integration if he knows whether this is happening in more municipalities. Are mosques used at the same time in more municipalities to implement municipal integration policies? And is the Minister prepared to discuss with municipalities that this should not happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u218	If Mrs Becker is okay with that, I will come back to that in the second term, because I do not have that in focus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u219	Yes, thank you. I'm going to see the Secretary of State now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is understandable that there are many concerns in the Chamber about non-transparent foreign funding if it leads to unwanted behaviour. I fully share the concern of the Chamber, as do my colleagues. It is not for nothing that concrete steps are announced in the coalition agreement to be able to take action. The letter you have received recently also explains how we see these follow-up steps for us. In my contribution, I will focus on the role that the State has played, has fulfilled and will fulfil in the further process. I say this against the background of the fact that funding from abroad is not prohibited in a free country in general. It will only become a problem if this funding results in influence that contributes to problematic behaviour. That is absolutely undesirable. Against this background, Saudi Arabia has been sharing information on applications for funding from the Netherlands since 2010 and Kuwait since 2015 that governments are aware of. The Chamber has been informed of this several times confidentially. Since 2015, no new information has been received from Saudi Arabia. And we see that since 2017, Kuwait's information has become increasingly limited. I spoke recently with my Saudi colleague Jubeir. It also confirmed that the government has not approved an application since 2015. Both Saudi Arabia and Kuwait have promised to share with us the information available from the government. They themselves state that they absolutely cannot guarantee that this is a complete picture. Individual funding will often escape the sight of governments and funding that takes a detour through other countries is hard to follow for them, and also for the Dutch government. Except with these two countries, we're talking to Qatar and the United Arab Emirates. These countries understand the Dutch concerns, but look very closely at the Netherlands itself as a country that they consider responsible for acting. They say they're doing it that way. Yesterday I was able to speak with my Kuwaiti colleague on the subject that I already shared with the Chamber in Question Time, namely whether the information we received from Saudi Arabia and Kuwait could also be made public. I said earlier that I have no objection in principle to this, but that I will have to contact both countries. That has happened now. I warned that this could affect the extent of the information, which is already decreasing. Evil wills, and we are talking about malicious people here, will, on the basis of the fact that that information becomes public, look for routes outside the public authorities. In any case, the discussions with the Saudis and the Kuwaiti colleague have led to their agreement to the disclosure of the information. So if the Chamber still appreciates it, against the backdrop of the risk of taking information, I'd be happy to share that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u221	That is, of course, a risk that we must also consider in conjunction with the Foreign Minister. Indeed, if the information gets less, if information is withheld, if we can't act, that's something we have to assess. If we now only get information that is not then dealt with, I think: make it public, then at least we can discuss it openly. The Minister writes in reply to our parliamentary questions that these countries, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, have said that they will not finance or have funded organizations if the Netherlands does not want to. Then the question is whether on the basis of the current list we are acting and sometimes also that which does not need to be shared in detail here is said 'we do not want to'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u222	The current limited and fairly dated lists have been shared with the AIVD and with SZW; I will deal with them later. Again, those lists are likely to be incomplete. These are two countries and they are information available to the governments of those countries. I am not aware that it has ever been said on that basis that 'it is not allowed'. For me, it's very important that, if you want the information complete, you should actually start looking on the other side of the pipeline on the receiving side. Then we come to Mr Dekker's contribution, which will indicate the way in which efforts will be made to make the revenue available transparent. Then you can follow the trail back. We are now in a very difficult, limited way asking countries and governments of countries "what do you know, what do you want to share with us?" Not surprisingly, they say: we cannot guarantee that we can see everything. To be honest, our answer would be even more reluctant: we do not have access to transfers of private persons or institutions in the Netherlands. If it were questions to the Dutch government, they would be applications for subsidies. We would hardly ever share them with other countries. If you want to complete the image, you have to follow the adadium of the Watergate journalists: follow the money. So, start where we care, at mosques, and then go back and see where that money comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u223	In that last option, if we follow the money and see that it comes from Saudi Arabia, for example, and we find it undesirable for all kinds of reasons, we can signal "we don't want to do this." Then we will indeed have the promises of these countries: then we will also stop it. That seems to me to be a good commitment from those countries. If we do not cut our fingers in making public the lists that have already been given and which have been kept confidential until now, have been in ministries for a long time and have not come out or come out late, I would say: make them public.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u224	I hear your call. I assume that some of the rest of the Chamber have given them their opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u225	I hear the Minister, in his reply, literally say to Mr Segers: those lists were then shared with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, and that is why he said two sentences further, I am surprised that nothing has happened all this time. Firstly, the minister himself was part of the previous cabinet. Secondly, I want to know exactly when these lists were shared with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u226	Words are now being put in my mouth that I have not spoken. I didn't say I was surprised that nothing happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u227	Something like that, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u228	You may explain what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u229	Back to the previous question, the first: on what date were these lists shared with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u230	I think that was in the answer to the questions. I really need that list for me, too. It's for my archive research. I'm politically responsible, but it's not like I memorized the date on which this happened. I think this was in the answer to the questions, but I will look it up for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u231	Finally, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u232	The Minister says this is in the answer to the questions. Of course, at some point after requests from the Chamber lists have been shared with the Ministry of Social Affairs, but has that happened before?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u233	Yes, that answer is in the written answer. I already indicated that I would come back to sharing information. When I look back, I think that the split could have taken place more quickly and carefully, but it is not the case that no information has been provided. This is particularly true of the Court, which, although confidential, has had the lists available. The information is also shared with each other. Again, that could have been smoother.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u234	One more question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u235	That information was shared after a WOB request from the media. That information was shared after a series of questions had been asked from the Chamber. I have here information from your ministry that has come into the hands of Newsuur, which explicitly states that the information on funding from Saudi Arabia has been known since 2010. This includes the transfer for Dordrecht. But it says, "so not to reconnect to the Chamber." My question to the Minister is: is it true that every time because of the interests and the relationship with the Gulf States, which we know are spreading this undemocratic idea, this undemocratic political religion, that information is always not shared, so because of the interests of the Gulf States and to keep the relationship right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u236	I don't think this is a secret. To date, the Chamber has received this information confidentially. That was indeed from the point of view that disclosure of information could lead to a reduction in the availability of information. Since I have heard the wishes of the Chamber, I have contacted the fellow ministers and now I have answered them. I have pointed out that they are very kind, but that evildoers will most likely look for other routes. But indeed, until now, the trade-off was not too bad faith, but an assessment of risks that, by making that information public, would diminish that information. That's no secret. That is why the Chamber has received them, but confidentially.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u237	Mrs Karabulut, because it is an important point, I allow a brief interruption, but you are actually through your interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u238	This is completely, but completely underestimate it and ignore our security. This information was only shared with municipalities after a WOB request, while for years it was known that a mosque in Dordrecht was financed from the Gulf States. We now know that these very radical preachers have invited very radical ties. How is this possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u239	On the sharing of information with municipalities, Mr Koolmees has just given a detailed explanation. For my part, I have indicated that I think that if I look back at how the information sharing of Foreign Affairs went to Social Affairs, it could have been tighter and more alert. I take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u240	"That it could have been tighter" is, as far as I'm concerned, an understatement, a heavy understatement. On this subject, I do not think it is the most important thing to look back at who should have done better forever. Das war einmal. But we have to learn and it has to be better. It could have been tighter, but the information that went from the State Department to Social Affairs and ended up with that RAND researcher ended up there because an official who came across in his mailbox and even forwarded it. Then information from Saudi Arabia ended up with that researcher. Of this, a foreign secretary says that he or she did not understand how the researchers got the information and that it was not intended for the researchers to report on this information. Information on Kuwait has not been shared at all. If, in answering the questions, the Minister says that there has been full openness, that there has been cooperation and that information has not been knowingly withheld, I think: I do not know what the definition of all these words is, but I have a very bad feeling about this, as I said. Again, I'm not standing here looking back endlessly and handing out all kinds of blackbirds, but this can't be happening, can I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u241	I would like to hear the story of RAND, but I would also like to do so in response to this. The report on e-mail and telephone contacts shows that this information was difficult. That is also why, for the third time now, I think, looking back, that this mutual information could have been better. Regarding the information that RAND received: RAND conducted research in 2014 and received the list known in 2014. That was one list back then. Two lists from Kuwait became available after that date. These were partly related to a period before 2014. So there's the confusion in RAND's letter, which I have here in front of me. When they had completed their investigation, additional information came from Kuwait. So it wasn't held back. He also went to the Chamber, but at the time of the investigation, that information was not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u242	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u243	The donations that Nieuwsuur is talking about were in 2007, 2008 and 2012. So that was before that date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u244	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u245	And even so, that information, including that of Saudi Arabia, actually ended up at RAND by mistake. That was the execution of a motion, a request from the Chamber: do an investigation, let's see and bring up the image in any way. Then the first condition is that information that is available is shared between the ministries but also with the researcher who had to be given an objective way of obtaining funding in what way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u246	The letter from RAND talks about the financing from Kuwait in the years 2007, 2008 and 2012. That information became available at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2016. It has not been withheld, but at the time when RAND/WODC conducted the investigation, that information was not yet available to the Foreign Office. The information that was available has been made available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u247	Madam Speaker, I'm telling you, I'm the last.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u248	I'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u249	That information was made available because a Social Affairs official just happened to forward an e-mail to RAND. When that information was there, the official then gave the reaction that it was not intended to receive that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u250	For the fourth time: the way this has gone internally does not deserve a beauty prize. We need to be more alert on that, but it's not deliberately withheld. It's careless. That is also reproachable and should be improved in future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u251	Mrs. Becker, you were earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u252	I know, Mr President, but Mr Sjoerdsma would like to go on with the substance of the investigation. I would like to ask a question about the actions in the future. It seems to us, therefore, more appropriate for the order of the debate if Mr Sjoerdsma asks his question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u253	Okay, that's good. I thought that's what I was talking about, but you guys took care of that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u254	I'm trying to help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u255	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u256	We don't want to make your role redundant in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u257	No, I'm not. Go ahead, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u258	Thank you. I've got to get something off my chest. Mr Segers rightly said that perhaps we should not dwell too long on the past, but it is frustrating. I have two sets of parliamentary questions that have been put together with colleagues Karabulut, Knops, Azmani and Segers. This was a genuine questionnaire after questionnaire replies. Those questions weren't answered. Eventually they were answered and then they were again not answered. At the time, for the first time, this chairman once converted written questions into oral questions, because I too paraphrase the President................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Getting that information to the Chamber didn't go by itself. That's not neat. Which brings me to that investigation. The researchers of RAND strongly deny that this research was possible freely and that the cabinet cooperated at that time. Mr Segers says that this information happened to be there. I would add that researchers have been discouraged from establishing contacts in the region. In fact, the ambassadors in that region have not responded. That brings me to another question, because I want to consider not only the past, but also the future. It is a proposal from me, but also from Mr Segers. Wouldn't it be good to do that research again, also because this minister himself says "Saudi Arabia says no more funding, but of course we don't know if that is still the case"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u259	I already indicated that if you want to start looking, I think you should start looking on the other side of the pipeline. You have to look back: where does funding come from? It may well be that you find out that it comes from an account in London; I don't know. It may be that other countries are making transfers whether they are in Africa or Asia, and that or not there are governments that have insight into this. So if you'd like to do additional research, you should start on that side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u260	This is good news, because I consider that a support of what I am saying here. If you want to go back to the source along this road, you also need to know how and where these funding flows have arrived here in the Netherlands. I fully agree with this Minister because you want to know where the funding comes from and what purpose the funding has had. That's where you start. And that starts again with a re-examination. I myself find that annoying; I would have preferred this investigation to have been completed long and wide with full cooperation. But then we agree and then we just have to do that investigation again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u261	I suspect the Chamber is going to rule on that, so I'll just wait and see. For me, it is crucial that Foreign Affairs is willing to use our diplomatic channels both in the framework of the steps announced by the cabinet and in the context of the wishes of the Chamber. So I've also been in touch with colleagues lately. I believe that this is part of the way in which I outline the risks, not because I expect my colleagues to oppose them, but because evildoers will listen with them and adapt their behavior. I do all that against the background of the fact that I...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u262	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u263	...the concerns with the colleagues of the cabinet share. Within the freedoms that the rule of law entails, I would like to look with you to find ways of tackling unwanted influence through funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u264	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but I have to be very sharp...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u265	Mr Sjoerdsma, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u266	... because now I feel that this answer is about transparency. That was just the subject of a discussion. My question was not about transparency. My question was about research: mapping, for sure, which funding flows are currently coming from non-free countries, non-free organizations, non-free individuals, I would say, to Dutch prayer houses. So let me clarify, because I understand the Minister's consideration on this other issue. Here's what I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u267	Yes, but that also applies to my answer: if that "Follow the Money" principle leads to foreign countries to which my people then have to put questions, then I agree with you. How much transparency we get in this will vary from one country to another, but I will give you that cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u268	It is to be commended that the Minister has found time in his busy agenda to contact Kuwait, to ask Kuwait to cooperate and to ask Kuwait to agree to the disclosure of information. We can also cooperate with Saudi Arabia, including in banning funding here. Perhaps the committee itself contributed a little bit to this during the recent visit, when a number of questions were also asked. I'm gonna take a look at what the minister says about those evil people. The Minister is actually leaving it to the Chamber. He says: if the Chamber so wishes, then we can make it all public, but then it must realise that there may be evildoers in those countries who are going to cover their constructions more than they are doing now. Security is at the forefront of the VVD, so I would like the Minister to give an opinion to the Chamber: should we now press for disclosure or do you advise us not to do so because otherwise we will lose our information position?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u269	Since I have a commitment from both ministers that they have no objection to it, I have no objection to it myself. My concern's gonna play out anyway. It is a debate that lives widely in society, so evildoers will in any case ask themselves how they will allow funding flows to flow in the future. So all things considered: I also find it uncomfortable that there is an atmosphere of secrecy that does not serve a purpose. As the Chamber knows, there are some documents that I do not make public when I insist. However, if the Chamber so wishes, I find everything to be considered, in this case the importance of transparency, the removal of the feeling that things are wrongly hidden outweighs the concern about behaviour that is probably already taking place at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u270	Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u271	Then I hope I have answered the questions from the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u272	Actually, that's what I was waiting for. Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Protection. I think there was one clear, concrete question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u273	Mr. Chairman. Civil society organisations are the backbone of our society. There are many foundations, associations and religious organisations that do important and good work for the Netherlands. They are close to people, organise activities and provide meaning. That is good, at least as long as they are committed to the good. Of course, everything becomes different when a social organisation is used to provoke or support unwanted behavior. We cannot accept such activities if they are contrary to the principles of our rule of law. Mr. Chairman. The social and political debate on undesirable foreign financing has been going on for some time now. I too share the concerns of the Chamber and the questions my colleagues have raised about where that money comes from. It has been indicated that it is a question of financing which is sometimes difficult to understand, of natural persons, legal persons, in different countries. It has also been pointed out that the way we now work at best leads to a flawed and incomplete picture. I would like to emphasise the question: who is receiving large donations? If we really want to get a good and complete picture of financial flows, we need to better identify what donations organisations receive and who, in order to get a closer look at what happens to them. That is why the cabinet is committed to increasing the transparency of money flows. Mrs Becker asked what exactly is the purpose of this. Transparency has great advantages. By obliging the recipient to understand, a more complete image is created. This also increases the pressure on public accountability, including to the media, but also to mosque visitors. If they see what is happening, they can also touch their own administration. Mr Heerma spoke about this. But at least as important: it also makes it easier for municipalities to discuss with a social organisation whether there is a link between the financing and activities that are then recorded in or around institutions. Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van der Staaij asked for speed. I intend to come forward with a bill by the summer to promote transparency on money flows. They asked what exactly that should look like. A tip of the veil: we are thinking of looking at all forms of civil society organisations, foundations, associations and church societies, together with the question of opening up large donations. So we draw one line: what applies to a mosque also applies to a church. And we limit the possibility to U-turn constructions. So there's no point in turning you from a foundation to a church society or an association to get out of the obligation to publish. In doing so, we must realise that this is also going to require something from all organisations. Of course, we can reduce the administrative burden by focusing only on large amounts. Think, for example, of the border amounts that are already being used by political parties, or, for example, when reporting unusual transactions. You might be able to use a slightly higher threshold to further reduce the burden. I'm looking at that right now. If there are any ideas about this at your Chamber, I'd like to hear them. Mr Van Ojik's question was: what exactly are you going to look at, at governments or at private institutions? You're basically looking at everything. You're looking at large amounts of money received. From there, you can reason back where that came from. That is a different flight route than we have now, where we ask countries: do you have a view of where any money from your country goes to Dutch organisations? Instead, we're gonna look at the receiver and we're gonna go back. Mr. Chairman. A number of suggestions have also been made to look at other laws, for example in the field of Justice or Finance, which can provide brackets for more action. That is necessary, because we live in a rule of law. That is what this debate is about. This also means that any form of public intervention must have a basis and basis in the same law. My colleague, Mr Koolmees, has just indicated that this is simpler for criminal acts than for some difficult to define concepts such as 'problematic action' or 'unwanted action'. This applies, for example, to the law proposed by Mrs Becker, the Law on the Prevention of Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. It is now the case that banks are obliged to report unusual transactions, but these are criminal offences. Much will therefore depend on the definition of terms such as "unfree countries" or "unwanted behaviour." If necessary, the criteria of such a law could be adapted on the basis of the results of the exploration. Something similar applies to the Law Bibob. That, too, is a suggestion that we would like to take with us, but it is a question of whether you address the whole problem well, whether this will reduce unwanted foreign funding and unwanted behaviour. Let me give you three things. The Bibob can only be applied if there is a real demand from the government, for example a permit. If nothing is asked, the Bibob will not apply immediately. Two. If the Bibob can be applied, the licence may be refused, but this has not yet stopped the unwanted financing. Three. Even more difficult is that we could refuse permits because there is funding of unwanted but not criminal behavior. "Fear of the use of the licence for the commission of offences" is now the criterion used. Then you'll be right back to the question of how to define a lighter criterion as "unwantedness" exactly: how do you define that? At least we want to take these suggestions with us. We are not writing anything off at the moment in the broad exploration that is being carried out under the direction of my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u274	I kind of want to know...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u275	I have two, three more questions to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u276	Okay. Shall we wait and see, Mr. Pieter Heerma? Then we'll do that first and then you'll have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u277	The same applies to the subject of anbi-financing, which Mr Segers cited. Last week, my colleague, Mr Snel, sent you a detailed set of written questions on this subject, in relation to the As-Soennah mosque. Without going into the concrete case, he indicates what his perspective of action is. When it comes to transparency, but also to a concept of 'general utility', which, of course, can also be questioned, he has indicated that he will continue to do so. Finally. Mr Van der Staaij asked a number of questions that lie at the heart of justice. They were about enforcement. If judgments are made that are criminal in themselves, criminal action can of course be taken. My colleague, Ferd Grapperhaus, sent a comprehensive letter to your Chamber earlier this week on crimes relating to certain statements by extremist speakers. For your question about the specific sermons reported by Nieuwsuur, the Public Prosecutor's Office may prosecute on suspicion of criminal offences, such as inciting hatred or violence. The Public Prosecutor has previously confirmed that she is investigating the statements made at the As-Soennah mosque. Apart from criminal enforcement, a question from Mr Van der Staaij was what can be done in civil law. There too, the law offers opportunities, not towards individuals but towards legal persons, for example dissolution of a legal person if there is a breach of public order, Article 2.20 of the Civil Code. In that case, it must be said that something can be attributed and that work is also sufficiently serious, but then the Public Prosecutor can ask for dissolution. This happens, for example, with motorcycle club Satutarah and happened earlier with the Association Martijn. However, I would like to say this because the burden of proof for that article is now very high, to increase the effectiveness of that article by clarifying which objectives and activities are at least contrary to public policy. This will reduce the burden of proof of the Public Prosecutor's Office and lower the threshold for banning organisations. And so, if anti-integrative or anti-democratic untolerant behaviour goes so far as to lead to conflict with public order, for example through structural calls for violence or inciting hatred and discrimination, the use of Article 2.20 Civil Code can be seen. As with the legislative proposal to ensure transparency, I also intend to consult on the amendment of Article 2.20 of the Civil Code this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u278	I understand very well that the Minister indicates that there are also complexities to the request that Mr Seghers and I make and to the suggestion that we make. I understand that very well. Moreover, it is a model throughout this debate that the desire for action must be given hands and feet. We must also do this against the observation, which I believe is widely shared here, that it has not been possible for years to achieve what we wanted here from the Chamber and what has been suggested by the Chamber. I hear the Minister say that the Bibob only applies if, for example, a permit is applied for. But it is also true that, on the basis of Bibob legislation, when we talk about criminal undermining, when things come up, permits can be withdrawn, for example? It is not only relevant, as far as I know, when a licence is applied for, but also when facts emerge. Then you can withdraw permits or subsidies, right? I think you can do different things with that. Moreover, the Minister is in the process of adapting that law on the basis of the criminal undermining contained in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u279	The Bibob Act is really a preemptive law. It aims to prevent a local government from facilitating criminal activities through its own actions. When discovering criminal activities, such as drugs in a particular building or illegal activity, there are other administrative means, but that is not the Bibob, to intervene at such a time and withdraw the permit or close a property. But I agree with you, we are currently at a point where we should not put anything aside at all and that we should include all the good suggestions in our exploration to see what you can do, criminal law, civil law, administrative law, in the end, to achieve the goal that there is no discussion about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u280	Finally, Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u281	Then very specific on that last one. The minister says he wants to look into it. This means that the suggestion made by Mr Seghers and I in the revision of the legislation currently under way is taken into account that the Minister is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u282	If there is a simple solution that is quickly available and can also be included in this review, it would be an option. At the same time, we must also look at what is real. In order to adapt the Bibob Act, there is a huge call in the municipality because they say: we need more resources now in order to be able to act against organised crime. So if it would not delay that process, I do not think we have any objection to it at all. The only point is that I foresee that it could be a complicated search. I'll take a little advance on that. This is without prejudice to the fact that you can change the Bibob Act at a later date or that you can take it with you in another journey. But at least I make the commitment to include it in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u283	Mr Segers, you also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u284	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u285	You kept saying "very short," but... Go ahead. This is your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u286	Luckily, the microphone is already on. For our part, I believe that we should have the same flexibility, because we should not put municipalities behind in their fight against undermining. But the beauty of the Bibob Act is, of course, that a variety of criteria can be established and that a variety of information can be introduced, which is all assessed on its merits, and then there is a result. This also overcomes the inconvenience we experience when it comes to confidentiality and the question of what the AIVD shares. That can all be put there, therefore it is a very hopeful route. But if municipalities now say "we must move on quickly, because we are dealing with undermining from drug gangs," then of course it can also be done by another route. But it's nice that it's being explored.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u287	Here's someone who's a fan of the Wet Bibob. I believe it is a very effective and a very good instrument. So if it offers parenthesis or inspires us, we're definitely going to take advantage of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u288	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. Speaking time is one minute and twenty seconds, including tabling motions. I call Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u289	Mr President, thank you. In the first term, I said I felt like I was being fooled. Colleague Heerma put that even more beautifully. He said: there may be powerlessness here, but there is also a little too much unwillingness. That might have been a little more poetic. It has also been frustrating for the Chamber at times. Especially on a subject like this, where it is about keeping unfree ideologies out of our country, that is very annoying. I am pleased that today, for the greater part of the Chamber, we have been able to distinguish between the extremist influence that we do not want and the freedom of faith that we all want. Mr. Chairman. Right now, I'm tasting the urgency and I'm tasting the shared direction. The core of where we need to go is already in the coalition agreement. That's transparency. That's limiting influences that endanger our freedom. The core is also sharing information with mayors and giving their handles. I would say: let us not take over their entire mandate. I also think that mayors should simply continue to act on their own. In recent times, I sometimes got the feeling that mayors would prefer to take care of it all nationally. I'm against that. Mr. Chairman. I do have one more motion. That's a motion on investigation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the research carried out on the foreign funding of Islamic organisations by RAND Europe has not been able to answer the intended research questions;]] [[Whereas this appears to have been caused by insufficient cooperation from the Ministry;]] [[Whereas, according to the Cabinet at the time of the investigation, the embassies in the Gulf States were not able to deal adequately with the questions raised by the researchers;]] [[calls on the Government to undertake a new independent investigation to identify the nature and extent of foreign funding of religious organisations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-82]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u290	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u291	I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are two motions from the PVV side, but first I have an introductory text to that effect. In the first period we talked about what mosques are and that the same is actually preached and used in all mosques, otherwise they are not mosques. The ministers on the left have heard this. They turned out to be deaf and blind in the answer. In silence, they call the disaster of the Netherlands by doing too little. The situation in Geleen also proves that people cannot leave Islam. That's why it's an ideology we have to get rid of. I mentioned Marcouch's trap. That is the trap that is said: we must tackle Salafism, then the Muslim Brotherhood and the rest of Islam remain out of sight. I'm talking about the phenomenon, not the person. Mr. Chairman. If we want to create freedom for everyone, we will have to de-Islamicise, otherwise it will remain "glass, puddle" and the Islamic influence will become greater than it ever was. That's why I'm filing two motions. The first motion is about closing all mosques. That's the beginning of de-Islamicism. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to close all mosques,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Graaf and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-83]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u293	Based on what I said in the first term and what we talked about, namely that Islam itself is the problem, I note that if you grant freedom to everyone in the Netherlands, you will have to get Islam out of the Netherlands. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to work on the de-Islamicisation of the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-84]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u294	Mr. Chairman. How do you organize cynicism in a society? That is what has happened over the past few years. The Chamber has requested, the Cabinet has withheld information. Researchers had to get information on the table, researchers were being countered. The Chamber wanted the cabinet to act towards municipalities and help the communities, but that has not happened for years, until the moment of elections came and Prime Minister Rutte, who was responsible for all of this, said that especially religious societies that undermine democracy should be banned. All this has not happened, and that is astonishing. Mr Van der Staaij will therefore be tabling a motion on my behalf on a parliamentary questioning in order to go into this further. Of course, a great deal of improvement has been promised. That's what happened in the past. Regardless of the confusion about desirable or undesirable, it is clear that the ideology of international jihadism, which lives not only in the Gulf States but is also spread throughout Europe, must simply be limited. Having said that, information has also been withheld and not always shared. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that information on foreign financing from Gulf countries was not or was not shared with municipalities in a timely manner;]] [[considers that this has created problems which could have been avoided;]] [[calls on the Government to share information on foreign financing from Gulf countries or elsewhere with the Chambers and Municipalities in the future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-85]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u295	Mr. Chairman. On the basis of this debate, it appears that there is a need for concrete action. I would like to thank Minister Koolmees for his commitment that it is his commitment to come up with legislation and that it is also the way in which it is already being explored. In order to encourage further action in several areas, I have three motions which I am about to read out very quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Empire, municipalities, banks and security services have relevant information on funding flows and requests and/or signals from e.g. disruptive messages, undermining, radicalisation or countering integration;]] [[Whereas combating foreign influence and interference in our country requires timely sharing of information;]] [[believes that we cannot allow freedoms and achievements to be compromised;]] [[calls on the Government to connect all local and national information at a central point and to use it to intervene through perseverance and to inform the Chamber of the possibilities for doing so within six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that mosques where signs of unwanted influence in the past have received municipal money in the context of integration, such as giving language lessons;]] [[considers that this influence does not contribute to integration, but rather counteracts it;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the VNG, to promote that municipalities do not grant subsidies to religious and civil society organisations for integration when there are signs that they could impede integration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that banks already have a legal obligation to monitor suspicious or unusual financial transactions;]] [[noting that this monitoring uses certain established criteria;]] [[noting that a bank is required to report an unusual transaction or planned to the competent authorities;]] [[Calls on the government, on the basis of the broader survey in autumn, to adjust the criteria, if necessary, so that the reporting obligation also applies to transactions from non-free countries to religious and civil society organisations;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Becker. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-86]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Becker and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-87]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Becker. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-88]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u296	Thank you. Mr Segers, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u297	Madam President, as you just said, you still have a second term. And I do have a second term. Thank you for that. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. I have a special word of thanks for the Foreign Minister, who has had a very eventful 24 or 48 hours. Thank you for standing here and having the debate. In the end, I also asked my critical questions, including the interrupting microphone. In the light of this, I have one final question about that information that would have been shared from Kuwait. The Foreign Minister said that this happened from 2015. In previous letters, there was talk of 2013, so that was shared earlier. So one more time: it is not the most fruitful part of the debate in retrospect and, as far as I am concerned, because we really need to look ahead and take steps, but that is the information that has been provided to me and we need to have it sharp. Thank you for seeing improvement and for taking real steps now. As far as information is concerned, the Minister for Social Affairs has said that I am going to do so better and faster. Thank you for that. We are working on transparency. The law is in consultation and further steps are being explored. There is a generous commitment to the administrative approach, as proposed by Mr Heerma and myself, through the Bibob Act. We are waiting for that and we know that this will be a success in any case in October. Then all the way to the end. By the way, I have signed four motions, so that gives me some time; not to table a motion of my own, but to say why this is so crucial. Let's go both ways. I say this to Mr De Graaf. This isn't covert speaking. This isn't looking away. This is definitely looking into the eyes of those who are malicious and who are targeting our freedom. On the other hand, I say the following to the colleague of DENK. This isn't Muslim bashen. This is standing next to that local Muslim leader, who says: this is my mosque, this is our community of faith, this is my country, this is our freedom, and I want to talk about my own words and my own ideas. We're right next to him. Why? Because freedom is dear and dear to us. You're giving freedom to everyone. I've said it before. But in this case, you have to defend her, too. And that very wide pallet between the two gentlemen in support of that, underlines the enormous value of that freedom and the importance that we all attach to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u298	Mr Segers, if you say "and then all the way to the end," I know it's getting out of hand. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u299	Mr President, thank you. I do not have any motions either, so, like Mr Segers, I just want to make a few very brief comments. About four minutes, I thought, if that's okay. Of course, I also thank the rulers. I've heard words like "search," "complex" and "wrestling." I recognize all of that, because that is always the case when I believe that that is the essence of this debate, and that is the fact that there are different freedoms that clashes and if you want to protect freedoms, but in order to protect these freedoms you sometimes also have to restrict freedoms. That is political, and those are the choices we stand for. I am, of course, waiting for both of the government's reconnaissances on that point. That will lead to new restrictions, and I think that will be necessary. But that can never be the only thing. I think that the following is very important, and that has also been said by several people in this debate. It is precisely when this information is available, particularly in the municipality, that this should not only lead to restrictive action, but also to other forms of dialogue, in which we can change behaviour that we do not want. I have one more question, Madam President. In the first period, I was a little bit, well, perhaps, surprised by the phrase "The cabinet is currently working out a process in which timely and good information is central to all concerned." Look, this has to happen. A process must not be developed, information must be shared with the municipality, and then we must look together with the municipality to see what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u300	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u301	Maybe there's still a shovel on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u302	Okay, thank you. Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u303	Madam President. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. Information has been withheld; let the rulers above all be honest about it. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet intends to send a survey in the autumn on the legal prohibition of financing from non-free countries;]] [[Considering that as early as 2015 the Chamber adopted a motion on restricting foreign financing of Salafism;]] [[calls on the government to make haste with a bill on foreign financing from non-free countries and to send it to the Chamber soon after the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas anbi's public utility institutions should effectively aim at the general benefit;]] [[Whereas there are mosques preaching things which are clearly contrary to the general interest, such as the promotion of female circumcision and the stoning of adulterous women, nevertheless have an anbi-status;]] [[calls on the Government to identify what anbi's ideas are spreading which are clearly contrary to the public interest, and to inform the Chamber of the actions to be taken,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-89]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-90]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u304	Finally, Madam President, I would also like to thank you for the very enlightening passage in your book.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u305	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u306	Madam President, I would like to thank the rulers for their reply and for their commitments, and I hope that this debate marks the transition from a long-term complex struggle to, above all, intelligent action, so that we can actually take steps. I'd like to make two more motions myself. One relates to the role of the Chamber and another to a question to the government. First, I submit the motion relating to the Chamber itself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a long-standing debate on undesirable mosques financing and the extent to which there is an undesirable influence, but that there is still a great deal of uncertainty about this;]] [[Whereas the Court also has a responsibility to clarify the issue of undesirable funding of mosques and the desirable solutions to it, inter alia by interrogating stakeholders and experts;]] [[calls on the Bureau to prepare a proposal for a parliamentary questioning on the undesirable financing of mosques,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas exploring and drawing up new proposals to address the undesirable financing of mosques should not prevent the use of existing opportunities to address abuses;]] [[Considering that both civil and criminal possibilities exist to tackle mosques that threaten the democratic rule of law or incite hatred and violence;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the very active use of existing civil and criminal capabilities to combat abuses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-91]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-92]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u308	Thank you. Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u309	Mr President, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that undermining influence from non-free countries is undesirable;]] [[noting that through flows of money from abroad religious organisations are affected in an undesirable way, thereby spreading radical ideas and preventing integration;]] [[noting that from local authorities there is a call for more support and more administrative capacity to act against this kind of undermining and disruptive influence;]] [[Considering that work is currently under way to extend the Bibob Law in order to better combat undermining crime;]] [[calls on the Government to provide more active information and support to municipalities in addressing undesirable foreign influence;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, in the review of the Bibob Act, how to improve the administrative capacity of municipalities to combat undermining activities from abroad towards religious organisations in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u310	Without saying, as Mr Segers does, that I am about to finish, I would like to ask two more questions. The first is for the Foreign Minister, who explained in the reply, in writing but also here, when what information is shared. However, in response to previous written questions from colleague Karabulut and Sjoerdsma, it has been indicated that from Kuwait, information will be shared from 2013. I wonder how that relates to this. I would like to ask Minister Dekker the following question. Isn't it true that the Bibop Act can also be used to withdraw permits that have already been issued?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u311	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u312	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to the rulers for the answer. The DENK Group broadly agrees with the line set out by the rulers. The important thing is to fight with each other against influence from countries that radicalise our young people and give us non-democratic influences here. Mr. Chairman. I'm filing three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[says that the approximately 400 mosques and prayer houses in our Netherlands today form an integral part of our society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[invites the government to conduct an independent investigation into the funds received from abroad from mosques, churches and synagogues over the past five years and to share this, possibly confidentially, with the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, following the example of VVD mayor Van Aartsen in the often heated discussions about mosques, to preserve "coolness and relevance" and, on the basis of equivalence, to raise them side by side with mosques in the fight against abuses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-94]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-95]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-96]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u313	I have another question about the motion that ended with'speaks that mosques are an integral part of society'. I thought that was a very special type of motion, so to speak. What exactly is the power of expression and its meaning? I didn't think this was so much the discussion of this consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u314	DENK does indeed have some special motions. If Mr Van der Staaij has listened carefully to the speech of the PVV in particular, I have the impression that this group does not see mosques as an integral part of this society. I think it is wise that we should pronounce that as a Chamber and thus send out the signal that it also fits in our society and has a place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u315	Mr Azarkan, on behalf of DENK, stated that he broadly agreed with the government's commitment, but what did not become clear to me at the end of the debate is whether he supported the cabinet's efforts to explore whether funding flows from non-free countries that contribute to non-freedom could be banned through legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u316	Yes, we support that. In reply to my question, I believe that the Minister has indicated that it applies to all religious institutions. This means that we really need to stop hating messages that go against our fundamental democratic rights and calling on young people to radicalise. We from DENK have always fought for transparency. In the past, I have always fought to train imams of my own. Unfortunately, the grant of the imam programme in Amsterdam has stopped at some point. So you can find us by your side when it comes to such issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u317	Finally, Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u318	Just a little more concrete. It's not just about those kinds of themes. Transparency is, of course, step one. But does DENK, in principle, support legislation to restrict funding of mosques from non-free countries if it contributes to non-free messages?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u319	DENK supports all legislation leading to... It's not just about unfree countries. We have just talked about the definition of 'unfree country'. It's not clear to me. The point is that we must ensure that within the mosques we do not resort to preaching in such a way that young people are radicalised or people are called upon to do something about others. That's gotta stop. If that happens somewhere, I see very often that mosque authorities are moving away from it and that a lot of measures are being taken. For a lot of mosques, this is not the issue. It's good to say that, too. But if that has to be dealt with through legislation and we do it for all organisations, then I think that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u320	Thank you. Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u321	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the cabinet for the answers and the commitments. The Labour Party supports the proposals and the commitment of the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I have three short points. Research must be beyond any doubt. Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Segers have also asked me about this. I have to say that this is not the case at the moment. The PvdA Group will therefore support Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Segers' proposal. Mr. Chairman. I have another appeal to the cabinet to keep the umbrella organisations firmly involved. I'd like a short commitment on that. It is good that Minister Blok has contacted his colleague and intends to continue to do so. I would like to call on him to be very proactive there, too, to ensure that there is a continuous dialogue between the Netherlands and the Gulf States on this subject, because that is what we are talking about here and, if necessary, other countries. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u322	Thank you. I heard you say that I would like a brief commitment to that. So you also have a long commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u323	Yes. All variants, Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u324	Good. Finally, Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u325	Mr. Chairman. We want the Netherlands to become an unsafe country for suspicious money flows from the Gulf States. To that end, this motion, called 'Hate sow'? Money gone.'. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that government has been trying for years in vain to check money flows from abroad to mosques in the Netherlands for their origins;]] [[noting that several mosques in this country have also demonstrated foreign financial influence and are spreading undemocratic and individual freedom threatening messages from these mosques;]] [[Whereas it often violates criminal law standards, including inciting hatred, discrimination and violence;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the umbrella association of mosques that in the event of further violations, the Public Prosecutor's Office may qualify the relevant mosque authorities as a criminal organisation pursuant to Article 140 Sr., for the purpose of violating Articles 137c and d; to prosecute the hate-sowing articles and to prosecute them accordingly, in which case all financial funds, irrespective of their origin, and mosque buildings may be seized and forfeited,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hiddema and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-97]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u326	Let's move on. I call the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u327	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as choreography is concerned, Mr Blok will deal with the motion on item No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 88, 90, 92, 95 and 97. I'll deal with the other motions. By way of introduction, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mrs Karabulut have asked about the unwillingness and impotence of what has happened in recent years. I recognised in my first term that some information was shared too late. At the same time, I would like to stress that much has happened in recent years and that a great deal of effort has been made in this regard. I mention the development of the three-track approach, including the normative framework, the deployment and intensification of diplomacy, the External Financing Pilot and the provision of support to municipalities. Are we there? No, but things have happened in the last few years. I would also like to put this image in this Chamber. Many activities have already started on this issue in recent years. Now we also need to take an extra step to improve this. I believe that this also reflects the efforts of all those involved in this area in recent years. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 83 by Mr De Graaf and Mr De Graaf and Mr De Graaf, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr De Graaf on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) (Doc. 84 from previous debates with Mr De Graaf. We have freedom of religion in the Netherlands. That's why I advise against both motions. The motion in part No. Mrs Karabulut and Mr Segers asked the government to share information on foreign financing directly with the Chamber and municipalities. "Directly" is not always possible, because sometimes there are also security issues, GDPR or privacy issues. The intention is, of course, to share that information as soon as possible. We also focus the process on sharing that information as soon as possible. If we can change "immediately" into "as soon as possible," then I'd like to give the motion a ruling Chamber. "Directly": there will really have to be a few assessments to see if that information can be shared at all, because there may be all kinds of risks involved. I will give this consideration to Mrs Karabulut. I would like to hear that before the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u328	I'll take a look at Mrs. Karabulut. Is she prepared to amend this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u329	Otherwise, I'd like to dissuade her. That is not the intention, that is not the thinking behind the whole debate. We really want to share more information with municipalities, but "per direct"? We really must be able to make a substantive assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u330	Short, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u331	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u332	Good!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u333	Well, I've never seen you like this, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u334	The motion in part No. Mrs Becker's 86 calls on the government to connect all local and national information at a central point and to use it to intervene through perseverance. That is, of course, in line with the reconnaissance we would like to send to your Chamber in the autumn. That's why I'm giving her judgment room. In the motion in part No. Mrs Becker's 87 calls on the government to promote, in consultation with the VNG, that municipalities do not grant subsidies to religious and civil society organisations. This is, of course, the responsibility and competence of the municipality and the city council. I have no overview of the subsidy relationships between mosques and municipalities. That is, of course, always a local responsibility. What we do have are anecdotal examples. It concerns, for example, the situation in The Hague or a few other examples that the newspaper has received. But there is no comprehensive overview. I don't think that's the responsibility of the government either. That really is the responsibility of the local council. Having said that, I would like to point out that I think it is right to include this in the discussion with the UNG. So that's why I'm giving this motion judgment chamber. But the competence lies with the municipality. I'd like to emphasize that for a moment. Mr Dekker is about to deal with the motion on item No. 88. The motion in part No. Mr Krol asked the government to make haste with a bill on foreign financing from non-free countries and to send it to the Chamber after the summer recess. This motion I must advise against. In the autumn the reconnaissance will come. We have talked about this a number of times today. It's really focused on serving the purpose, which is to counter currents that disrupt... Well, I've already said all that in the first term. The motion in part No. 90 will be dealt with by Mr Dekker. The motion in part No. 91 calls on the Bureau to prepare a proposal for a parliamentary questioning. That is a request to the Presidium and not to the cabinet. That's why I don't think I have a judgment on that. Mr Dekker referred to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dekker, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) The motion in part No. 93 was tabled by Mr Heerma and Mr Segers. The request actually has two parts. It is requested to improve the provision of information to the municipalities and the quality of the information. The government is also invited to consider the administrative possibilities when revising the Bibob Act. In the first period, I mentioned the legal basis. Minister Dekker commented on the search: what is the right instrument, what is the right hook to do this? With reference to that, I would like to give this motion judgment Chamber. It is indeed in line with the approach we have in mind. The motion in part No. 94 is a special motion by Mr Azarkan. The motion states that about 400 mosques and prayer houses in our country today form an integral part of society. That's true, but she's not asking for anything from the government. The motion will speak out. That's what I'm saying. That's right; that's a fact. I'm glad you did. That's what I'm saying. I do not think that this calls for a judgment or action from the cabinet. So it's a little searching for my role in this and then I always get insecure. The motion in part No. 95 is for Mr Dekker. The motion in part No. 96 is also a motion by Mr Azarkan. It calls on the government, following the example of the VVD mayor Van Aartsen, to preserve "the coolness and commerciality." That is what this cabinet always does, as I say to Mr Azarkan. The motion also calls for an increase on the basis of equivalence in the fight against abuses. We always do. In this sense, I can give her judgment Room, but it's also a... It says "calls the government," so it doesn't say "spoken." This seems to me to be entirely in line with government policy. I have also indicated in the first period that we should use the local administrators, who are also the first to suffer from these abuses, to draw them up side by side in order to fight wrongdoing. So in that sense, I fully share this line. The last motion, in part No. 97, will be dealt with by Mr Dekker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u335	Yes, that's the Secretary of Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u336	But will you first give the floor to Minister Blok?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u337	Yes, first I will give the floor to the Foreign Minister, because I think he has one motion to judge. That's the motion in part No. 82 by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u338	Sure, and there were a few more questions. The motion by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Segers calls on the government to carry out a new independent investigation to identify the nature and extent of foreign funding of religious organisations. The debate dealt with this as follows: where funding meets on the mosque side and peels back from there. If the cabinet can explain this motion in this way, we will be happy to carry out such an investigation in a sensible division of labour between the three ministries concerned. So I'll leave this to the House's discretion. Both Mr Segers and Mr Heerma asked about the exact date on which information was available from Kuwait. Apparently there was a piece called 2013 and another piece called 2016. I'd like to be able to get those pieces in front of me. I've already promised to make the available information public. I would like to add the precise answer to this question. Mrs Ploumen asked me to maintain proactive contact with the Gulf States. I have made that contact recently, and we will certainly continue to do so. Mr Kaag also visited the Gulf States two months ago, and I'm sure that's not the last time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u339	Mr Sjoerdsma, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u340	I'm gonna ask you something just to make sure. I fully agree with the follow-the-money principle. That's gonna help us. But it also means that we must be sure of how all these funding flows run when we map them widely. I would not like to send researchers out with the words: these are the currents we know now, success! There will also be currents that we do not know. That is what the Minister himself says, and that is what the cabinet itself says in the cabinet letter: we do not have a good idea of what is coming from the United Arab Emirates and Qatar. Saudi Arabia says, for example, that it has not done so since 2015, but we are not sure. So I think it would be wise not to gag the researchers in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u341	I couldn't agree more. It's been a while since I was allowed to take the course Methods and techniques of research. I did pass the exam. We're going to ask expert researchers for this, of course, but I'd do it like this. I would visit mosque authorities and ask them: can we see your finances? May we know from you what the sources are? I think I'd put a similar question to the domes. Based on those answers and that information, we're gonna look back. Then that's the follow-the-money principle. This is the domestic part, but let me take a look at my fellow Members at some point this may lead abroad. I have indicated that my ministry is therefore willing to provide all the support it needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u342	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u343	Mr. Chairman. There was a question from Mr Heerma concerning the withdrawal of licences. He is right when he says that a number of continuous permits, such as hospitality permits, can also be taken into account in that regime of the Bibob. Then there's the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 88, on the broader exploration. I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber on that. It depends a little on how that reconnaissance goes and what comes out, but we can get out of here with this. Mr Krol's motion for a resolution 90 asks to inventory which anbi's spread unwanted thought. Mr Snel has indicated that, if there are real abuses, he will also maintain the criteria of the anbi. That actually goes a step further than what Mr Krol is asking here. So I would almost say that this motion is superfluous. Perhaps the motion could be withdrawn with this commitment. The complete inventory as such results in a lot of extra work. I wouldn't recommend that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u344	If the motion is not withdrawn, what is your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u345	Then I dissuade her, the motion in part No. 90. Then the motion to part No. 92, by Mr Van der Staaij. I can leave the judgment to the Chamber on that. We can also discuss this in the regular discussion that we have, with the remark that, of course, it is always up to the Public Prosecutor to decide for himself what matters it deals with enforcement and prosecution. The Azarkan motion in part No. 95 asks for an investigation, a little along the lines of what my colleague Stef Blok has just indicated. I think that the latter is a feasible variant, but for the structured mapping of the last five years, I think it is more complicated. That will be different in the future, if that law will be able to count on support in your Chamber, because then you will keep it structured. I find this motion unenforceable. That's what I'd like to dissuade her. Also the motion in part No. I should like to advise against this, because it is based on the assumption that criminal law is often violated. Eventually, that's up to the State's Attorney's Office, which is investigating it. For the time being, therefore, it is unclear whether there is a violation of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u346	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Legal Protection and the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-3.u347	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. Then we'll start with the arrangement of work right away.
