ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u1	We will continue with the debate on the informal European summit. I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Answer threes. Something about the MFF coming up: the Multiannual Financial Framework, the MFF. Secondly, on institutional matters. And then a section varia: other. The MFK. You've been able to read it all. The aim of the cabinet is not to increase payments and modernise them. That means we're facing a few issues. First of all, we think that if Britain is out, the budget must also be back with the British part. Then there is a budget, and within that budget we want to modernise in the very large posts that are in it, such as the cohesion and structural funds. This creates room in the financial sense to enable new spending in areas such as security, migration, border surveillance, defence and cyber. By the way, you don't need very large amounts of money for that right away. In these very large hundreds of billions, therefore, we want to modernise and therefore also look at how we can reduce the amounts. It allows you to free up money, free up space, to intensify on those other things. That's our bet. We're gonna work hard on that. Then, of course, we can talk very much about what-ifs: what are others going to do? We don't know exactly. By the way, that image is shifting. Someone said, I thought Mr Omtzigt, that a country that is not financially sound and that would decide at some point that it is actually for a higher European budget should also contribute much more. Random: France. Suppose France would say: we want to reach 1.1%, or 1.2%, of GDP. This means an enormous extra effort for France to reach that 3% of the SGP in the end. And you know: that's just an intermediate goal. So that's the Dutch commitment in the coming time. My expectation is, frankly, that there will be pressure to try to conclude this before the European Parliament elections. Whether that's gonna work is really fragile. I think that there is also a good chance that this will go beyond the European elections and that you will really be heading towards 2020 before any decisions are taken. It may even end in the second half of 2020 in the German Presidency. Anyway, at least we'll be here in time, and that's good news. The field of force is that, of course, we in Europe are looking at what other countries are doing. We'll talk about it everywhere. Of course, I am not at liberty to quote here from the conversations I am having about what the other countries will find, but we are, of course, watching other countries look at that. Then, of course, you will see that a number of countries that are now also part of the nett or nett payers are of course interested in hanging out with us, such as Sweden, Denmark and Austria. I must honestly say that you also see countries, you saw it on Monday in Germany, but also in the contacts with France, and certainly in the German government agreement, with some upward pressure on how much they want to spend on Europe. However, there is no great enthusiasm to do so indefinitely. The idea of modernisation and "brexit must also have consequences" does indeed resonate there. The House of Representatives is of course involved. The position paper, which Mrs Leijten asked for, I will send to the Chamber. There are no exciting new things in that, because that is, of course, in line with the letter of inquiry, but we are going to send it to you. Mr President, this is about the MFF.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u3	The Prime Minister says: we have a number of new priorities, but, well, the financial impact they are going to take is not so bad for the time being; we can make a lot of savings by modernising the budget. That's what we call it, in fact. In other words, if you put those two next to each other, we'll be left with money. Would the Prime Minister be prepared to give some insight into these financial consequences of the Dutch agenda? That's what I wanted to ask him in second term. He's doing that now a little off the loose wrist...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u4	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u5	... but not exactly yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u6	Of course, we're very early in the process. I would also like to say to the public: what is wise in the context of the European debate, and how do you avoid being completely committed by pinpointing amounts exactly? I've called them global. I see huge amounts of money going towards structure and cohesion. In relation to these large amounts, it is the relatively clear investment that is needed in the areas I mentioned, simply because with a lot of money you do not just solve the problems there. It is about money, but it is not necessarily about very large amounts. In another annotated agenda when it is discussed further, we can see if we can give more insight into it. Then I would like to see what it means for the European force field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u7	That seems to me to be a very good thing, and that must certainly be done, considering what it means in terms of the European force field. However, the Prime Minister is much less hesitant when it comes to saying that there is not a penny involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u8	That's our goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u9	This is clearly something that can already be defined quite precisely. So now I ask you to give insight into the underlying financial flows that will start when the Netherlands gets what it wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u10	That's not terribly complicated. Of the approximately 1,000 billion, 600 to 700 billion goes to agriculture and the cohesion and structural funds. If it's up to us, we're gonna see if we can first agree on modernisation that allows you to spend the money more focused. By modernising the budget chapter of these three major headings.............................................................................................................................................................................. You want to know exactly those proportions. For that, I'm going back to the previous answer. I would like to have some space now, when we are so early in the process and even the Commission still has to come up with detailed proposals, not to put down as the Netherlands a complete MFF now, as it were, because otherwise we would commit ourselves completely. So I understand the question, but just give me a chance, in the coming months in contact with Parliament, to see how detailed we can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u11	When I hear the Dutch government's commitment in this way, I think it sounds very calm and, moreover, it all shifts. Can I indeed qualify it as an effort promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u12	It's a promise to do the best we can to make this happen. We're gonna work really hard on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u13	I think that's fair, too. You have promises, hard promises, which you'll have to apologize for later. That's not what's going on here. This is an effort promise and the commitment of the Netherlands. No more, but no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u14	This is what we want to achieve, yes. Sure, and we're in the process very early.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u15	As I pointed out, the Prime Minister is still at dinner tonight, leaving aside the question as to why this is only now and he could not be there before, because all the big countries are there. There is now an image that we particularly want to be clear and that we are against a number of things that other countries do want. Is it perhaps a good idea for the imagery in Brussels and Europe to indicate what the Prime Minister and the Netherlands would like to be nuanced in favour of, because this might work out a little better at the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u16	In the context of the budget or in general?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u17	In general.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u18	But then it comes. The previous cabinet with Louis Asscher as Deputy Prime Minister and this coalition took over many of these elements and made a whole series of proposals. We have said that we are going to transform the European Stability Mechanism into a European Monetary Fund. That should not only manage the pot but also run programs. As far as we are concerned, this is also going to gather the macroeconomic data on the basis of which we can determine with each other whether countries are developing sufficiently towards greater competitiveness. We have made proposals about a sovereign debt restructuring mechanism. We have put forward proposals to link payments from the Structural and Cohesion Funds to whether countries are actually reforming and complying with the SGP. And, "to be awaited," still under discussion: linking structural and cohesion funds with compliance with the rule of law obligations, which is something that the Germans and others are thinking about. This is another question mark, in which when it comes to linking to strengthening the structure of the economy, other countries make this link. Maybe you should do both, but that's still under discussion. Further proposals have been made to ensure that, with regard to the Banking Union, we first get a precise picture of what risk reduction is needed before a step can be taken, in line with the banking union proposal, towards a European deposit guarantee scheme. It also raises the question of what that means for the percentage of bonds to be held by national banks from their own Member States, including a debate to be held. That, we believe, is also decisive for this. We have also put forward proposals on how we can solve the problem of the common fiscal backstop at the Single Resolution Fund in the coming years. All Dutch proposals. So we have made so many proposals that I do not recognize in the picture that the Netherlands would not want to contribute positively to the European debate. But we will do so from a conviction, if I may say so, Mr President. That belief is that, first and foremost, by being there, Europe is already contributing to stability in itself because we are working with other countries in an unstable world, regardless of what exactly cooperation is aimed at. The fact that you sit together, talk, know each other and are therefore also mutually supportive, that creates security and stability in itself. Secondly, a Europe that creates a strong economy, through the euro but also, above all, through the internal market, of course. But also a Europe that is a community of values, where we have common views on the rights of men and women, white and black, gay, straight and where we have views on democracy, on the rule of law, on the position of social groups. That the majority cannot impose a dictatorship on the minority, and that the minority and the individual, of course, have as many rights as the majority, which is ultimately necessary to take decisions, of course. So, yes, without going any further ahead of my speech in Berlin, because I will, of course, put a number of specific accents there again, I think I will show that this government has a positive agenda for Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u19	Another supplementary question. Thank you for the detailed reply from the Prime Minister. That does indeed give a glimpse in next week, for which thanks. Yet the image is rather negative, at least when you read it and hear it. Do you have the feeling that you will be presenting this story in Berlin tonight and then so comprehensively and clearly that it might help other countries to support you? 'Cause four of us aren't that big of a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u20	There are two different discussions. We just finished a discussion here, or it's still going on, about the MFF, so the new seven-year period. That is what the Netherlands is in business and also tight and we have ideas about it, we want to achieve things. In addition, there is, of course, a broader issue, quo vadis with Europe. This is not a government that believes in the inevitable march of history towards further integration. It is a government that says: there is a basic promise under Europe, with a higher level of convergence in the field of prosperity and security. And what are we supposed to do to make Member States so strong that they can also contribute to it and that Europe is doing exactly there, in the field of security and in the field of convergence towards higher prosperity, that this is also effective? At least that is what I think I have been carrying out for a number of years. I've only been held to what I say. The way others interpret that again will always be a whole range of views. The PVV will say: it is too pro-European, and D66 will say: it can all be with even more love. I have to live with that fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u21	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u22	I'm doing okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u23	Before you move on to the next topic, the Prime Minister says: we are committed to no increase in payments. This can, of course, be achieved in different ways. In my view, one of the options is that the payment should not increase by introducing, for example, a new own resource, such as the introduction of a European tax on plastic bags or plastic bags, I saw already. Is that an acceptable option for the Prime Minister if this does not increase the Dutch contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u24	No. A second key point is, of course, institutionalia. Firstly, there is the difficult discussion about extra seats for those Member States which are now under-represented on the basis of their growing population. I understand that argument, too. Then you talk about about about 27 seats that are needed for this, but at the same time there is also the dominant Dutch desire to say, including in the budget, also in the seats: if the UK goes out, then those seats should actually be cancelled. We're gonna have that discussion. My commitment will be to the discussion tomorrow........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So I'll bring that up tomorrow. Anyway, we have to be real. Many other Member States will say: ho, we have a different view on this. Of course, we're going to listen to that very carefully. In any case, this is the Dutch view. Then the Spitzen candidates. That doesn't excite us. By the way, this is not happening in a formal sense, because there is no change in the Treaty. The Treaty is clear, including on the division of roles between the European Council and Parliament. The European Council, acting by a qualified majority, shall propose a candidate. This is one of the few times when QMV is decided in the European Council. The European Parliament must then also agree with a majority of its Members, taking into account, of course, the results of the European elections. So we're gonna wait and see. We know that a small majority in the European Parliament is in favour of the Spitzen candidate process. That is a political statement by the EP. It will be; we will see that later on in the debate between the European Council and Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u25	The Prime Minister is a wonderful sketch of the force field. That's right. The cabinet says it doesn't want Spitzen candidates. That is clear, but what would be good? It is, of course, quite difficult, because the previous method of choosing the President-in-Office of the Council did not deserve a beauty prize either. At that time, it was tucked a little further back, because the Member States were going to discuss with each other who would come out. That was Barroso. That wasn't very good either. So I ask the Prime Minister which way is then passable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u26	Of course, you have to make sure you find a good chairman. But I am surprised by Mr Verhoeven's position on this point, because he actually chooses that the CDA will deliver the President of the European Commission over the next 250 years. He actually says that by being so excited about the Spitzen candidate process. My political assessment is that the European Christian Democratic family will be the largest party in the next 250 years, when you see the enormous distance they have to number 2, let alone the party that Mr Verhoeven and I sit with. That's a very small one. Why would you want a CDA as President of the Commission for the next 250 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u27	No, Mr. Chairman. The fact that we don't want a CDA in that place for the next 250 years is absolutely true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u28	That is the consequence of your position!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u29	No, that's not the consequence. The Prime Minister's reasoning is as he argues in this debate, but if you don't want something, you have nothing else. We have an alternative, namely finally going to an election as Macron proposed. I know that the Prime Minister is not enthusiastic about this, but I asked him if there is an alternative, other than the Spitzen candidates who the Prime Minister rejects for understandable reasons, who he has just explained, and unlike the method used for this, namely that Member States decide among themselves who it will be. Is there another way, for example, as Macron suggested? Or is there another way to do it? That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u30	That earlier system has also resulted in Jacques Delors. I think that was a formidable President of the Commission. That's what happened in the back rooms. Besides, I'm not for those backrooms at all. I think that this can be done with a certain degree of transparency. The reason to be against a Spitzen candidate is also not the CDA. That would be lame, if only because it would be the end of the coalition. That's a little fast, too, after a cheerful start. The reason why I personally am not in favour of Spitzen candidates is also true for the coalition because it confirms that the Commission has a political role. The Commission is not a political body. As far as the government is concerned, the European Council is the political governing body of the Union. The Commission has the right of initiative and, above all, it must ensure that the agreements that have been made are implemented and that they are adhered to. By making the Commission more political, it is increasingly apparent in recent years that the Commission also thinks it can afford to take more political decisions. That is what you see, for example, when it comes to maintaining the Stability and Growth Pact, when the Stability and Growth Pact is a fairly straightforward pact where there should be no room for political views. That's the risk of such a Spitzen candidate trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u31	By the way, 30 years ago, we thought the CDA would always be the largest party in the Netherlands. That didn't come true either. So we don't have to be so gloomy about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u32	Then we thought the PvdA would be the biggest now. But in Europe, I really do not see that changing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u33	No, we don't see things happen all the time. That's what makes life so interesting. So the Prime Minister says that he is ultimately concerned with the person sitting there and that the procedure matters less to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u34	That's right. It's about the best person for the job. It must be someone who realizes that the Commission has a very special position, but at its core it is not a political body and should also be a guardian of the joint agreements. In a Europe with a few very large Member States, the Netherlands in a sort of intermediate position and then a whole tail of smaller Member States, the Commission is always a bit the protector of those smaller Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u35	Apart from what is ultimately the political colour of the person who comes out of the top hat, the underlying question is "I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether you think it is important that the future President of the European Commission can count on broad support in the European Parliament. The Spitzenkandidat was a model to secure that. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that this is indeed important, regardless of how exactly you define the action or mandate of the European Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u36	Yes, the European Parliament also has a role in the procedure and, yes, I think that is important. Just where the Commission has the right of initiative and is the guardian and security guard of the joint agreements, it is in your interest that the Commission can rely on basic support. The European Commission is, after all, a presidential system, and therefore it is particularly relevant to the person of the President, the President, that he has sufficient support in the European Parliament. Sure. By the way, you can make the political agreement that the Spitzenkandidat of the largest party will also be the President of the Commission, but then you can still close other coalitions around it in the European Parliament. You never know exactly how that ends. Anyway, then we're speculating a little bit. There was a question from the Christian Union about the electoral threshold. That's a sensitive discussion. On 8 February, the Chamber received a letter from the Minister of the Interior on this point and on a few other matters that are involved. Moreover, it is not before the European Council tomorrow. We stated in the discussion on the Kiesakte that the Netherlands could not agree to a electoral threshold that affects the Netherlands. That is important, because it is a unanimity dossier. We work together with Mrs Van der Graaf and others in this area. The hope we have at the moment is that there can be a proposal that has been adapted in such a way that it does not affect the Netherlands. What you are now seeing is that there seems to be support for allowing the electoral threshold to apply only to Member States with more than 35 seats. The Netherlands now has 26. If you could get those three, which we are not in favour of, because we think that all those British seats should fall, then we will go up to 29. Then we're still way below 35. This means that we will not be hit by such a threshold now and in the future. We're very alert. Once again, we will be working closely with the parties that are particularly concerned. That can be potentially all of us, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u37	This leads me to a question. Good, this bet. Now some of the British seats are redistributed, but what if the total number of seats is redistributed? Is the Netherlands therefore outside the danger zone for the introduction of that threshold?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u38	I don't know, but there's really no question of redistributing them all. There was talk of redistributing part of it through transnational lists. That idea died in beauty in the European Parliament itself. What we now have is to redistribute 27 of those British seats. I've got the sum right here. If all seats are redistributed, the Netherlands reaches a maximum of 32 and a minimum of 30. Then we're still way below 35. But it's not political right now. If it were to happen and you would redistribute them all, the Netherlands would be 30 to 32. But once again, we must work together on this. I understand the political desire from Germany and other countries for such a threshold. I think there is something to be said for not to block that in advance if it is possible in a way that is acceptable to us, but we really need to hold hands on that point. The issue of transnational lists is no longer topical after the debate and the European Parliament has served. There were already objections to this idea in the European Council, as was my observation. I think that's off the carpet for a while now. Mr Bishop and Mrs Van der Graaf asked a few questions about European political parties. The cabinet is aware of the concerns of the SGP and Christian Union groups about the proposal to fund European political parties. It is not on the agenda of this informal European Council. The Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, Mrs Ollongren, will inform the Chamber as soon as possible. I can say here that we think it is important to keep an eye on the diversity of the Dutch party-political landscape and that this also translates into the European level. So we will be in good contact with this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u39	Macron's proposal on transnational lists has indeed been rejected in the European Parliament, but if I understand correctly, the Council, if it is the Netherlands, is not going to take any initiative to get it back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u40	No, we are not in favour of that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u41	Clear, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u42	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u43	I'll take a look at the questions. The question of double hating in the European Council and the Commission has still been asked. It was a question of the SGP whether there is much support for it in Europe, but there is very little support for it. We have not been able to establish that support. Those were the questions about the institutionalia. This brings me to my subject of varia, i.e. all kinds of questions that could not be dealt with in advance with the previous issues. The first question was whether we would like to insist on publishing the spending reviews, a question from Mrs Van der Graaf. We have stressed the importance of this. As the Netherlands, we asked Commissioner Oettinger to publish these documents when he visited us in January. We continue to emphasise this importance and therefore continue to look critically at the results and effectiveness of programmes. Then there were several questions from different parties, such as the SGP, the Animal Party, the CDA on agricultural subsidies. First of all, on agricultural policy itself. We believe that it needs to be thoroughly modernised. Firstly, it should focus less on income support, as some of your members also said, and more on strengthening market orientation. We are committed to performance-oriented payments, such as payments for food safety and sustainable agriculture. It should be less focused on direct payments and thus less on income support. We are in favour of a modern Multiannual Financial Framework, which also means a substantially modernised common agricultural policy. We believe that this is very important for the acceptance of this huge budget item. With regard to bullfighting, I would ask Mr Van Raan to address that question to the Minister for Agriculture. Bullfighting is not on the agenda of the European Council tomorrow. The Minister for Agriculture can also speak to you about the precise programmes and the design of the CAP. I think I answered those questions with that. The question was then asked about the cabinet's commitment to the redistribution of asylum seekers. That is not on the agenda tomorrow, I say to Mr Asscher. He referred to the revision of the Common European Asylum System. The commitment from the Netherlands has been discussed here a few times. There will soon be a general consultation on the JHA Council on 8 and 9 March. There it is also discussed with Mark Harbers, but our commitment is clear. At one point in time, the Estonian Presidency made a proposal that was another compromise on a number of other things that were there, in order to achieve a more automatic redistribution system, especially in the case of large migratory pressures, but that is not yet complete. This is still being looked at very critically from Eastern Europe. But that solidarity is very important to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u44	I know that, and I think it is right. The reason it might be indirectly discussed is that, I think, we all see that you need effective border surveillance, that investments will be needed in the countries of origin and that agreements are needed with Central African countries to contain migration. And that, of course, has a direct relationship with the MFK. Again, we have seen the government's commitment on that point. It is difficult, but I think that the urgency, which is not felt equally strongly by all countries, must remain on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u45	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u46	For that, I think it is very important that the Netherlands and this Prime Minister continue to emphasise it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u47	A thousand percent agree, where indeed the whole chain is important. Take away root causes, return of migrants who are not allowed to be here, external border surveillance. I have always had the hope, but so far it has not materialised sufficiently, that if you do all that, then the care in Eastern Europe would decrease compared to a more automatic redistribution, because they would then feel, and rightly so, that you would have more control over the influx. Mr Asscher also asked about the situation in Greece. It remains a major concern. The tricky thing is that we try to provide help in every possible way, but then the Greeks have to accept it. We continue to draw attention to the situation of refugees in Greece and the European Commission is also doing so at the moment. For example, efforts are being made to improve and increase reception capacity. Greece has forced a whole range of migrants into hotels and apartments on the mainland, also given the winter weather. We are working on this without delay. Mrs. Leijten has asked for fake news. That's what a case is about. That means that it is under the courts, and I would therefore like to slow down the substance of the matter in order to discuss it now. Mr Bishop asked a question about the competitiveness of the Dutch agricultural sector through sanctions against Russia. As is well known, the European Union has issued sanctions against Russia for the destabilising activity in Ukraine and the occupation of Crimea. These sanctions against Russia do not primarily affect the Dutch agricultural sector, but Russia has taken countermeasures that affect, among other things, the Dutch agricultural sector. For example, Russia has published a list of products whose imports are restricted or discontinued, mainly from the agricultural, horticultural and fisheries sectors. Of course, we have no influence on Russia's countermeasures. It's up to them. These measures also apply to other Member States. That is why consensus is so important. Following the discussion with Mr Asscher, there was a question from Mr Van Ojik van GroenLinks on the safe European external border. I think it is crucial for all of us. This includes good relations with neighbouring countries, control of who comes in and a joint effort in the fight against terrorism and, for example, foreign terrorist fighters. With regard to the accession to Schengen of countries such as Bulgaria and Romania, we are looking strictly at those countries, where the physical external border is concerned, but also at the implementation of the constitutional matters, such as the Commission's seventeen recommendations, which are partly linked to the control and verification mechanism. That is precisely why we are on top of that, without denying that the prospect exists for Romania and Bulgaria to accede to Schengen in the long term, but at the time when it is possible. Then I come to the "riant pensions." I would also like to quote Mr Van Rooijen, otherwise I have another person from Brussels on the line. The Netherlands stands for a smaller budget. We ask the Commission to develop and propose effective reforms. This applies to all administrative expenditure. They are a major item in the multiannual financial framework. The same applies to the pension system. Mr Anne Mulder referred to the ever closer union among the people of Europe. It is true that some people attach great symbolic value to this. The British in particular have turned this into a national sport in a negative sense. I have nothing to do with that, because all of this highlights the inevitable march of history towards a more integrated Europe. The only problem is that our voters, our population, can't keep up with the pace, so we have to explain it again. I hate it all, that whole mindset. I have just tried to outline in broad terms the position of this cabinet in the European debate. It is by no means a legal obligation to further integrate in a European legal sense. Mr Mulder is right about this because it is a question of bringing the peoples of Europe closer together. Well, that's interesting, of course. I think it is best that we forget this whole term. In itself, Mr Mulder has rightly made a nuanced remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u48	The first part of that sentence, "ever closer union," you may forget, but the second is interesting. The founding fathers of the European Union are very clearly not federalists, because if they had been federalists, they would have said 'we, the people of Europe'. They said "people." It is a good reason to stop transnational lists, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u49	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u50	Not the first part of the sentence, but the second part. I'd treasure that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u51	In this respect, the many biographies and diaries can be recommended, for example those of Schuman and others who, of course, played a major role in the early years of the Union, up to and including those of the Delors mentioned above. But then you're already in the eighties and nineties. I myself had the opportunity to read the diaries of Ernst van der Beugel. I don't think they've been published yet. He was a Social Democrat and Secretary of State in the last Drees cabinet. Then you will see that there was tension between more federal and more Community. Do you place the emphasis on the Member States? Is it intergovernmental or is it via the Brussels institutions? That discussion then, albeit in a Union of six countries, was no different than it is now. By the way, the French took a fairly consistent position in this, especially since President De Gaulle founded the Fifth Republic in 1958. The consistent common thread there is that when the French advocate for more Europe, there is always a very large French flag on that Europe. It's nice to see that continuity. The state of play of the Commission's subsidiarity task force has been called for. It was launched on 25 January under the leadership of, indeed, Frans Timmermans. There is participation from the Committee of the Regions and national parliaments. The European Parliament did not want to participate. The task force is still working this spring. Subsidiarity will also be discussed under the Austrian Presidency later this year. As you know, we also attach great importance to the application of this principle. I think that is also consistent from the previous cabinet and from this cabinet. I think we are also very pleased with the work done by Frans Timmermans there. I'm getting to the Western Balkans. The Dutch Government's view of enlargement in the Western Balkans has always been the application of "strict and fair." I agree with Mr Omtzigt who says that there is currently no question of meeting all the strict conditions of the accession process. In this respect, we are also looking at this with great attention. The Commission will report on progress. The next report is expected in spring, in particular on Albania on 17 April. We will then, of course, determine our position on that. The progress report on Macedonia will also be published on 17 April. And that's where we'll determine our position. As regards the President of the Central Bank of Latvia, only the Latvian authorities are responsible for whom they delegate to the ECB Governing Council, and therefore also for possible dismissal. So we can't do much more about that than we can. It seems to me wise that arrested people are not members of that council, but I cannot do much more about it either. The supplementary pension fund of MEPs is the responsibility of the pension fund. That lies with the European Parliament itself and the solution must also be found. I think it is a good thing that Mr Omtzig raises the issue here. I also think it is right that we should all take this into account in our colleagues and party political friends in the European Parliament. We received the questions on Tuesday. We're gonna take a serious look at that and we're gonna answer them within the deadline. This is as clear as the answer given to those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u52	I get that. The central question there is the following. There is a European regulator called EIOPA. We weren't very excited about that. But EIOPA indirectly supervises all Dutch pension funds. If in the Netherlands a pension fund has a coverage rate of 37%, the pension is reduced by 63%. This leaves €37 out of every €100 pension. And the only pension fund that nobody supervises is this voluntary supplementary pension fund of MEPs, which they do not have to contribute much to. The Dutch MEPs decided 20 years ago to stop participating. And this should now be corrected by the European taxpayer. Is the Dutch Government prepared to write a letter to EIOPA asking how supervision on this front is seen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u53	I assume this is in the parliamentary questions you asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u54	That's a good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u55	Yes, there is, but the last question was whether the questions for today could be answered. If Parliament's questions now become a reason not to get an answer in a plenary debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u56	Then we're clear of these parliamentary questions!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u57	That's one way too!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u58	And then you're a little rid of me too, you'd like that! No, I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u59	Once again, I prepared for the European Council tomorrow, not for... I don't even know what the abbreviation is; EIOPA I believe. I just don't know. Those questions are there and they will be answered within the deadlines. I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u60	Okay, then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u61	...it's for the best. I can make one more attempt in second term, but this is so deep in the portfolios of the Minister for Social Affairs and the Secretary of State for Finance that I do not consider to be expert on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u62	Your question will be answered in writing, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u63	This is there, but if it is paid out, it is paid out of the European budget and that is what we are talking about today. So this isn't something weird today. You have a big European budget and they're going to pull out a few hundred million in one go to save a pension fund that we don't have to save. My urgent appeal is therefore to ensure, if that is discussed, that at least there is no support from the Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u64	Should that be discussed tomorrow, I will, of course, take a position on it. But I think that where it is really going to become material in the context of the design of the new MFF, it will be at the earliest in the coming months, and then we will be on time to answer the parliamentary questions. But if it happens earlier, I do not have the impression that Mr Omtzigt and I think differently about it in substance, but I cannot see the full scope. Then about the chairman of the Systemic Risk Board. A motion was passed on that two weeks ago. In accordance with that motion, we are going to vote against it. So we are indeed carrying out this motion. Then transparency. The government's response to the transparency paper will follow at the beginning of next week. I have a much longer answer, but maybe that's the short version. I agree with Mrs Leijten that we in Europe should assess their merits. Yeah, I just agree with that point of exchanging all those files.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u65	The Prime Minister agrees with you, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u66	But that can't be true; she obviously wants to keep the battle going!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u67	I'm also thinking, what am I supposed to ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u68	That's what I thought!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u69	Let me come back to this transparency requirement, not only of our Parliament and the Senate, but also of 24 parliaments. There are just some very important times ahead when it comes to decision-making in the European Council, including proposals that will have to be negotiated later with the European Commission and the European Parliament. The request for transparency does not come from the sky; we have been doing so for a very long time. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister agrees with me that you should not change files, but is he willing to just give more openness about them so that we can actually follow them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u70	That's two different things. The first concerns the COSAC paper. Once again, we will be sending in the response at the beginning of next week. And yet the previous answer: I agree with Mrs Leijten that you should assess dossiers on their own merits. Take the EEA, for example. There was also the question: well, what would they have called back for? In fact, only one thing, and that was very visible, is that we think it is important that the last medicines also have access to the markets in Eastern Europe. That was an initiative by Edith Schippers, which fell very well there. That might have helped. You never know for sure. You never know why countries support our prayers; also because the prayer itself was good, but perhaps also because people liked that the Netherlands was committed to accessing Eastern European markets for the latest drug developments. So you can see a link there, but that's within the file: the medicine file. So that's such an example. Furthermore, I do not recognize the image of Mrs Leijten calling it now, but you sometimes see that there is a kind of big mastermind with all meters and thinks: if we turn a switch here, something is going to happen there. I don't recognize that, if only because it's too complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u71	I fully agree with that. I also believe that, for example, the accession of the Balkan countries, whether at once or not in 2025 or separately, in accordance with the rules we agreed on, in which I certainly should not mix the government's commitment to aid with the further completion of the euro. In addition, you can ask yourself what "finishing" stands for, I say to the Minister of Finance every time. But it is a bit the suggestion that is aroused by, for example, D66: you can't just say no and still have to move a little. I would really like to have the assurance here that the Prime Minister says: okay, I hear that, that is a view, but I feel supported by a majority in this Chamber who says that you treat it separately and do not trade it against each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u72	That would be my view, yes: simply assess the dossiers on their merits, with as much parliamentary control as possible. I'm just wondering if there's a file that makes it a little more difficult. That may be the case when it comes to European top nominations, but then too it is within the appointments themselves. If, for example, Hans Vijlbrief is successfully placed as the head of the eurogroup's preparatory club and you might want to have someone appointed somewhere else after that, you might say: you just brought in that one. In that sense, of course, it is within, but that is again the file of the top official appointments. In there you may always have trade-offs in the sense that you say: then we may not be able to bring in that dg-ship. There it is conceivable, so within the human resource part you will undoubtedly take into account your lobbying position on other appointments. But it's not like, because we're getting a job, we're suddenly in favour of a shock absorption fund, which Macron proposed. No, it doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u73	Then I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister recognizes himself in the image outlined, among other things, by D66, that we weaken our position if we say: whoa, wait a minute; we do so on a case-by-file basis; we say yes or no or show what movement we can make. Is that what we're gonna do? I don't think so. I think it's basically to fly that way, but that's suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u74	Mr Verhoeven knows better himself. Perhaps I can say one thing from my point of view: I find it even more interesting to come up with proposals of my own, as I have just mentioned, challenged by Mr Van Rooijen. The whole list of proposals that the Netherlands has made in recent years in the area of strengthening the internal market, EMU and the euro area is as follows. One. Come up with your own proposals. You never have to say no to that, because they were your own proposals, so you're excited about that. Two. If others make proposals, don't respond immediately. If the Commission comes up with proposals and it comes up with decisions, then you have to find something. If that is necessary, we will often come up with alternatives that we think are better. But that doesn't depend on the exchange of files. Those are two separate discussions, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u75	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u76	I'm reassured. I see what is happening in the media: the Netherlands cannot just say no; it is isolating itself. And then all those files are added up like you should do it all when your neighbor walks in and says, "Give me your key, your wallet, you name it." You can say no to all those things, too. I am glad that the Prime Minister says: no, it doesn't work that way at all; that's nice imagery, but I choose a case-by-case position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u77	Mr Verhoeven wishes to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u78	Yes, because Mrs Leijten is doing this deliberately. Normally I'd let it go, because it's not that important, but she's acting like I'm the one who said on behalf of D66 that we have to make one big bag of files. I didn't say that. I said that the Netherlands in Europe should not always say no. I also said we shouldn't always say yes. That is exactly what the Prime Minister says in his explanation, namely: we simply have to look at it on a case-by-case basis. I regret that Mrs Leijten makes it appear as if I have said something different than what I have said. She shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u79	No, Mrs. Leijten. This discussion has already taken place extensively in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u80	Mr President, I do attach myself to it: 'If you always go everywhere with 'no' as the main line, you are failing yourself'. And the warning: "He needs to watch his tone a little bit because we are therefore out of the discussion." That's all in the message from BNR News Radio. It's fine to say it louder there, but then I can tell myself on such a public source. I did that when I interrupted Mr Verhoeven. And I asked the Prime Minister: is that how it works in Europe? He denies that, and I like that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u81	I also agree with Mr Verhoeven that you should not do that. If he meant me by that, I don't recognize myself, but I agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u82	BNR wrote down exactly what I said. That's what you call news. The SP stands here on the interrupt microphone, makes it a completely different story, also a completely different discussion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u83	Yeah, that goes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u84	...and creates fake news. I just think it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u85	Mr Verhoeven, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u86	...not good to debate like that, so I'm making a point of that. You should let me finish. You just had Mrs Leijten do this twice. I'll make my point quietly. I regret that Mrs Leijten is deliberately wrongly quoting me. We cannot have a normal debate in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u87	No, this is not a normal debate either. I really think it's... no, Mrs. Leijten. I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u88	But Chairman, I quote...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u89	No, Mrs. Leijten! Please, Mrs. Leijten, this goes on and on. This was discussed extensively in the first period. You're standing next to each other. Maybe it's an idea to have a cup of coffee?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u90	Mr President, I'm fine. Drinking a cup of coffee; a beer can also. I'm just reading that news report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u91	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u92	Yes, but Mr Verhoeven is pretending that I would do that wrong again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u93	This is a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u94	Anyone can just see and read it on BNR News Radio. There's the message: "Brussels no-tone can harm Rutte."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u95	Mr President, in conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u96	Yeah, well, in conclusion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u97	Well read, but not placed in the right context...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u98	Oh, there you go again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u99	...so disinformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u100	Well, would you like to say something about that, Mrs Leijten? Yes, Mrs Leijten, you must respond to that. Come on! Mr Verhoeven, stand still. The Prime Minister will wait a moment. Mrs Leijten, you have the floor. I'd say pronounce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u101	I replied to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u102	Yeah, I also think it should be said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u103	Yeah, me too. First we fight each other and then I'm gonna step in. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u104	Mr President, I do not need to say anything more in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u105	Fine. And you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u106	Well, I find that a disgrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u107	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u108	Yes, Mr. Chairman, let's get back to business. I just heard the Prime Minister say he's coming up next week with an answer on the COSAC document. We, Mr Leijten and Mr Pieter Omtzigt, wanted to offer this to the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Tusk, last Monday, but he had no time for that, for whatever reason. Would you hand it over to him tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u109	The answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u110	No, the document we actually wanted to offer Tusk on Monday. He didn't have time for that. You'll see him tomorrow. Would you mind taking that document with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u111	Mr. Van Rooijen!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u112	I really have no idea what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u113	No, me neither. Mr. Van Rooijen, we're going here...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u114	You have...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u115	No, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u116	If I had anything...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u117	No, the Prime Minister can't say anything either. We're not going to pass messages here. This is a debate. I'll give the floor... no, Mr. Van Rooijen. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u118	Mr President, if Mr Van Rooijen gives me something that is acceptable in form and character and what is appropriate to hand over to the President of the European Council on his behalf, not on my own behalf, then I am always prepared to do so, as a passing-through door. But, of course, I'll see if it's appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u119	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u120	I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u121	Thank you. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President, very briefly. I waited for the Prime Minister to finish. It's about the bullfight motion. He says: I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u123	No, I referred to the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u124	That's right. But does he agree with us that motions that have been adopted have an obligation to implement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u125	Mr President, I am really referring to the Minister for Agriculture. I prepared myself for tomorrow's European Council. I get that you're always at risk of...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u126	Yes, you did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u127	But then it gets very wide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u128	Yes. Let's move on to the second term. Speaking time is one minute and twenty seconds, including tabling motions. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u129	Mr. Chairman. The political conclusion of this debate is the promise of Hoekstra that the contribution would go down despite the fact that the Dutch commitment is a promise of effort. That also makes sense to me, because there is less money, there will be more tasks and there needs to be modernisation. At the end of the day you have to take into account that it can cost more and that that is in Dutch interest. I think it is a good thing that the electorate should not be ignored. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that promises made have previously led to disappointments;]] [[believes that we need European cooperation for our security, for the fair distribution of refugees and for the fight against tax avoidance and climate change;]] [[calls on the Government to be clear on what it can and wants to compromise on,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1298]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the Prime Minister. My first term was mainly about the gap between the negotiating commitment on the one hand and the promises made to the citizen and the electorate on the other. I have also come to the conclusion from this debate that what has so far seemed to be a promise is often a negotiating commitment with all the possibilities and perhaps also probabilities that something that is just different from what you went into it with. After all, that's why you sit around the table with each other. In order to be able to judge that commitment properly, we need, to my taste, more insight into the consequences of that commitment. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is publicly committed not to increase the multiannual budget;]] [[whereas the Netherlands wants to modernise the multiannual budget at the same time as choosing new priorities;]] [[calls on the government to provide insight into the financial implications of the Dutch commitment to modernisation and new priorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1299]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u131	I understand this motion very well in view of the background. I think we'll be able to do that in due course. But aren't we too early on this? The European Commission has not yet made an official proposal. She's giving all kinds of shots, but if we take a bite at that, we might sink into their story, while we as a parliament...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u132	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u133	... actually say: find the money first within the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u134	I would particularly like to paraphrase Mrs Leijten's words on the commitment of the Dutch cabinet which wants more Europe on a number of points. The Prime Minister also said this: migration, security, climate, energy. It's a pretty long list...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u135	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u136	Mr President, may I finish my sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u137	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u138	... but it's said, don't worry, because it's certainly not going to cost more than what we're cutting back on all the other things. I think that is too little, and I want more insight into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u139	Thank you. Now Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u140	With the many discussions that will take place in the European debate, it is now time to set limits and set our limits to the European Commission. The European Commission, which lays down a pile of proposals, pretends that it is inevitable that at least one or two of these dossiers should be moved because otherwise it would all be stuck. It's a matter of taking the moment. In my opinion, it is very good what the Dutch Government says: we peel that off every file and let us not force ourselves to trade things out. Because that is, of course, the strategy that is now before us, the strategy of the hot cooker: creating as much chaos as possible and before you know it, we have nevertheless agreed to enlargement of the Union, which is unwise for the Member States that are now members and for the Member States that may join. I support the commitment to a smaller multiannual budget. I think that's possible. I believe that there is a great deal to be saved on agricultural and cohesion funds. There's also a lot of money in that torso pump circus. But I am not going to table a motion on this, because I will wait and see what the European Commission is going to propose in the end. Maybe she's gonna swallow that 10% and 20%, maybe she's gonna make it 30%, 40%, and then we're gonna be able to determine our position. Finally, I asked the Prime Minister about the fake news check by East Stratcom on behalf of the European Commission. I think we should distance ourselves from that. I think we should say that a government institution does not control journalists, and certainly not the way it is doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u141	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Then I'll go to Mrs. Maeijer on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u142	Mr President, thank you. The Netherlands has been one of the largest net contributors of the European Union for years. In recent years, Brussels has also shown that it is a cesspool of inefficiency and waste. That's why I'm filing the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that the Netherlands should leave the European Union as soon as possible in order to regain our sovereignty, freedom and identity;]] [[believes that the many billions spent annually by the Netherlands on the European Union can be better spent in the Netherlands itself and that every euro of Dutch taxpayers' money is too much for the EU;]] [[points out that as long as the Netherlands is still part of the EU, the Netherlands will not be net contributors again;]] [[points out that the discount on the Dutch contribution should be maintained;]] [[calls on the government to apply this as harsh demands in the negotiations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the perverse, decadent system of salaries and allowances in Brussels is still not a thing of the past;]] [[considers that the salaries and allowances of EU officials, MEPs and Commissioners can easily be reduced by at least 25%;]] [[calls on the government to make a commitment to this during the negotiations on the Multiannual Financial Framework,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1300]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1301]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u143	Mr President, very briefly. Let me be clear: I did not talk about generous remuneration, working conditions and pension schemes for officials in Brussels, but about generous. Let me take a look at the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u144	Please continue. Otherwise, your speaking time will be over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u145	Yes, Mr President, but I did not have, perhaps to your surprise, so much at the end of the debate. I think it's good for historiography to note that there's a big difference between generous and generous. On the COSAC document on greater transparency, the Prime Minister said that we will have an answer next week. I think he knows what we were talking about. Finally, I agree with Mrs Leijten that we must be careful to speak in terms of content too early. Indeed, the Commission's proposals will not come forward for some time. I hope, however, that there will be a picture of the Commission in which the views of this Parliament and the views of the cabinet, which we largely support, are clearly echoed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u146	Mr Verhoeven had another question, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u147	What is the huge difference between generous and generous that Mr Van Rooijen is talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u148	Don't do this now, Mr Verhoeven. This is the second term. Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u149	I'll explain it to him later, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u150	I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u151	Mr President, seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u152	I'm very serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u153	I put a question to Mr Van Rooijen. I haven't done a lot of interruptions today. I'm just asking a normal, short question. You want short questions and I ask a short question. Then you'll serve that question because you think it shouldn't be answered. Mr. Van Rooijen can just answer, can't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u154	No, Mr Verhoeven. This is a second term. I have said from the outset that we are going to commemorate Mr Lubbers in the Chamber at 3.15 p.m. In the second term, we're not going to ask each other what the difference is between certain terms. That's possible in the first term, if it's very important. But I'm not gonna let you do that right now. Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u155	That's why I was so short: because of the memorial.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u156	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u157	Thank you, Mr President. In that same shortness the following. I think the Prime Minister was a little too fast and heard himself say "no' too loudly, but we do agree with our view that there is an obligation to implement motions. We will follow his advice to ask the Minister for Agriculture about this. But the logic of raising the issue of subsidies seems obvious to me. Second point. The great gain of this debate is for the Party for Animals as follows. In 2015, the Prime Minister, in his own words, did not see the link between the world food problem and the agricultural sector coming. By now, he'll know. I have heard the VVD say here today that there is indeed a link between the issues of climate change, security, migration in general and the reform of agricultural policy. That's a big profit. To congratulate Mr Anne Mulder and to help him on his way, I would like to present him with a fine article that makes this connection very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u158	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I now turn to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u159	Thank you, Mr President. May I speak on behalf of all and thank the Prime Minister very much for answering the questions in the usual concise manner. Thank you for that. I did not talk about it in the first term, but it is very close to my heart: I would like to join Mr Leijten's remarks on combating fake news. If we follow Twitter a little bit, we know that at the moment, one of the biggest distributors of fake news is the European Commission. They have a plan of action on what has to be done and it is presented as "this is going to happen." Nowhere can you find the term "proposal," so "the proposal is that this is going to happen." Then I could still find myself in it. But it is suggested that it is already established. Among other things, this recital leads to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as the Cabinet also indicates, the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union should be adequately reflected in the MFF 2021-2027, and that ambitious budget reform should go hand in hand with the achievement of austerity;]] [[calls on the Government to work to ensure that the size of the new MFF is preferably reduced compared to the current MFF, but remains at most the same;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the Netherlands, which is relatively hard hit by the Brexit, does not also make a significant contribution to closing the funding gap,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1302]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u161	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Then I will go to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u162	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I too would like to thank the Prime Minister for his response and his first-term responses. They were very clear. The cabinet's commitment to the negotiations on the European budget has been made clear. They can count on the support of the Christian Union. On the electoral threshold, the Prime Minister has made it clear that if there is to be, the Netherlands will not be affected by it. Not now, but not in the future either. I'd say we'll take it with us. Although we would not like to see the electoral threshold, we understand this approach. They can count on our support. Although the proposals on European political parties are not on the agenda of the European Summit, the negotiations on them are still going on. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the proposed amendments to the regulation on the statute and financing of European political parties and European political foundations at European level determine which national parties are recognised as political parties at European level and, inter alia, it makes it impossible for independent representatives of the people to register a European party;]] [[Considers that the proposed adjustments severely restrict access to the European political system and disproportionately affect small parties and independent representatives of the people;]] [[considers that it is undesirable for the European Commission to interfere with national political structures by deciding at European level which national parties are recognised as political parties at European level;]] [[calls on the Government, within the European Council, to promote the maintenance of low-threshold access for parties to the European system and to come forward with alternative proposals to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Bisschop and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1303]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the government for the commitment and for answering the first-term questions. We come back with the Minister of Finance to the point of getting rid of a central banker who's in prison. We share the unwelcomeness of this, but Latvia is a member of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank. I await with great tension the answers to the questions about the supplementary pension fund of the EU, because if there is no intervention, confidence will fall even further. The Prime Minister was wondering if he could get a few copies of the paper. They were quickly picked up, so on behalf of the colleagues Leijten and Van Rooijen I have here a pile for him that he can take with him. These are questions to Mr Tusk...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u164	Do you have a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u165	...who hasn't answered in four weeks. So I'll give you the papers in a minute. My motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the States General jointly presented the report "Opening up closed doors' in November 2017 and sent Parliaments on behalf of 26 EU parliaments to the President of the European Council, Mr Tusk, in December 2017;]] [[noting that the European Council has so far not responded, even though it says it is in favour of good cooperation with parliaments and more democracy and transparency;]] [[calls on the Dutch Government to ensure that these proposals are discussed at the forthcoming formal European summit and actively advocate the adoption of these proposals;]] [[and invites the Government to report on progress to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Leijten, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Bisschop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1304]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u166	Then I'll give these papers to the Prime Minister, and that'll be it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u167	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u168	Oh, I thought there were different rules today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u169	No, this has always been like this. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u170	Thank you, Mr President. First, I would like to read out a motion on a smaller European Commission. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Article 17 (5) of the Treaty on European Union states that, as from 1 November 2014, the members of the European Commission shall consist of a number corresponding to two thirds of the Member States, namely 18 Commissioners;]] [[noting that in 2013 the European Council decided not to maintain this article of law leading to a Commission of 28 Commissioners;]] [[whereas a European Commission of 28 Commissioners does not contribute to an efficient and manageable European Commission;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself at European level to a European Commission with fewer Commissioners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1305]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u171	I would like to make a few brief comments. Thank you to the Prime Minister for replying. With regard to the Franco-German axis, I call on him once again not to step on the brakes, but to sit and steer behind the wheel. We have talked extensively about the commitment to the Multiannual Financial Framework. I think the cabinet's commitment is excellent. It is a commitment; that is quite clear. I have discussed a smaller Commission. Mr Van Rooijen had another question about vetos and the tax veto. I looked it up. That is part of the financial veto, and that is what we want to preserve. By the way, I have looked at synonyms.net, at least Mrs Hennis has done so for me. It says that "riant" is a synonym of "royal." And I hope the President will be more generous next time, but with interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u172	Well, we're good today. Mr Omtzigt has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u173	The question was not only what vetos remain, but also what vetos go away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u174	That's what I said, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u175	Well, I've heard one example that's never been used and a bit recorded for Poland and Ireland. In this way, if something is adopted in the area of family law that they do not like, they can make it go away. That's very small, isn't it? Is that all you got?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u176	No, that's not all. Absolutely not. There are vetoes on operational cooperation and EU citizenship. But most of all, there are bogus vetos. Mr Omtzigt also knows that. These are vetoes that have already been abolished, but are still being used in the Council, which is training decision-making. I'd like to talk about it any longer, Mr. Chairman, but we need to speed things up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u177	It's good of you to think with me. Thank you. No, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u178	Interrupting goes in two, doesn't it? The veto of citizenship is thus abolished. That's pretty far-reaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u179	Good. You guys know a lot about that I've seen. This brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-9.u180	First, we're going to consider the death of former Prime Minister Lubbers. After the commemoration, we will continue with the second term on the part of the government.
