ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mr G.O.J. From Tets. I ask the Members to stand up. On September 10th, one day before his 94th birthday, Govert van Tets, former senator for the VVD, died. He was a member of the First Chamber from 20 September 1977 to 23 June 1987. Jonkheer Govert Ocker Joris van Tets was born in Zeist on 11 September 1924. When he turned 6, he went to the first class of the Zeister School Association. The school was founded a year earlier by a group of parents, including Van Tets. They had set their sights on a new type of school. A school where it was spacious and light, the latest teaching methods and materials were used and where the atmosphere was pleasant. And so Govert van Tets sat in the banks of the brand-new school on 3 September 1930. He then followed gymnasium alpha at the Christian Lyceum in Zeist. After graduating, he studied Dutch Law at the University of Leiden. From 1949 to 1957, Mr Van Tets worked for the government; first as administrator at the Ministry of Finance, then as assistant to the Dutch Representation at the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris and finally as first secretary at the Dutch Embassy in London. In 1957 he made the switch to business when he joined Unilever. He was there for more than twenty years director of the Foundation Unilever Pension Fund "Progress." Mr Van Tets became a member of the VVD in 1958 at the request of his wife. Mr Van Tets once said: "When we came back (from abroad) and I used to criticize the VVD, my wife said: if you are critical, then you have to do something about it." He soon became Vice-President of the departmental board in Rotterdam, and then Chairman. In 1965 Mr Van Tets became chairman of the VVD in the Public Body Rijnmond, better known as the Rijnmondraad. From 1964 to 1986, the Rhine Mondraad was a directly elected administrative body between the municipality and the province, intended to coordinate the specific problems at regional level in the Rijnmond region. In 1970 Mr Van Tets was committed to the Rhine Mondraad for five months. From 1974 to 1978 he was a member of the Provincial States of South Holland. In the meantime, Mr Van Tets was sworn in on 20 September 1977 as a member of the First Chamber. On behalf of the VVD Group, he became spokesperson for Finance and Social Affairs, and in his second term also for Housing. Mr Van Tets was also Deputy Chairman of the Permanent Committees for Finance and Development Cooperation in the First Chamber. He held his maiden speech in the treatment of the bill Liquidation of the insurance provided by the Ouderdomswet 1919. His expertise in the field of pensions came in handy. Coincidence or not, his last contribution on 9 June 1987 also had to do with pension legislation, to be precise the Pension and Savings Funds Act. During the discussion on 31 October 1978 of the European Social Charter, in particular the right to strike which the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats agreed with - Mr Van Tets pointed out that 'the VVD would not be present at the time in these matters' again proved to be nothing but a widespread and persistent misunderstanding'. Minister for the Interior Wiegel replied: "I do not think I need to contradict that remark'. In 1987 Mr Van Tets was also elected as politician of the year as his own surprise in an opinion magazine De Tijd survey. With the slogan "No bullshit, choose Van Tets," a group of parliamentary journalists protested against such elections. The slogan was written on the body of Van Tets by the way. He found the work in the First Chamber very efficient because there was no unnecessary long talk about details. He said that once in an interview, in which he said further: "I think the attractive thing about First Parliament membership is that you have the task of looking forward to the future. The law to be adopted is already in place, but what are you going to do in the future in this area? That preview can then be incorporated in the argument that you keep at some point." In addition to his political career, Mr Van Tets was, among other things, Chairman of the General Unemployment Fund, crown member of the Housing Council and board member of the Amsterdam Securities Exchange. From his 87th to his 92nd year he was still a member of the financial committee of the Royal Hollandsche Maatschappij der Wetenschappen. In 1988 Mr Van Tets was appointed Knight of the Order of the Dutch Lion. May our respect for his person and his merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to the support of his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u2	Thank you.
