ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 34761, English-language case law international trade chambers court and court of Amsterdam, or Netherlands Commercial Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank all Members for their contribution today to this bill, which allows the Netherlands Commercial Court. At the NCC, companies with complex international trade disputes can sue in English. Traditionally, Dutch companies are internationally oriented. To speak to Luns: "We are a small country with a large foreign country." But we've become good at it, too. When I visit the countries around us, I am always proud to see Dutch entrepreneurs who have come a long way, who are very powerful in the language and who trade with a lot of agencies abroad. Of course, that's good, because that makes your market bigger. Trading abroad offers incredibly many opportunities and parties are agile. But companies, including Dutch parties, would like to make agreements in their contract about what to do in unexpected conflicts with other parties. They often want to come out with a pre-established judge, in a language agreed in the documents that can be read by both parties. Therefore, the parties often agree in advance that they want to resolve their conflicts in an English-language procedure. This applies to large and smaller companies. Companies that are now fully litigated in English can currently only go abroad to an English-speaking government judge, for example in London at the LCC, or in arbitration. Both options are quite costly, by the way. Now it is true that the Dutch case law is highly respected. We're doing well internationally. Dutch procedural law is flexible, fast and good. It is a pity that internationally operating companies with complex trade disputes cannot use this because it is a Dutch-language procedure. Companies want to sue for the international disputes they face, not in Dutch, but in English. That is exactly why the NCC is useful and necessary and why this bill is needed. Our current law does not make that possible, I say in the direction of Mrs Andriessen. That is the added value of the NCC. This applies to large and small companies. You could say that not the kind of company, but the kind of business determines the choice for the NCC. Companies using this additional facility shall bear the costs thereof. I think it is important to point out once again that the NCC is not at the expense of the resources of the regular case law. So it doesn't press that. This proposal will give companies an additional opportunity. They will be able to opt for English proceedings before the Dutch judge. This procedure is more expensive than a procedure in Dutch before the regular court, but it offers parties a cheaper alternative to arbitration or an English-speaking foreign judge. I think that's also the equation, the choice, what companies that want to sue in English stand for: arbitration, another English-language procedure or the NCC. Companies must, however, explicitly opt for the NCC. It's an explicit appointment that needs to be made. It's not something you can include in your terms and conditions. The NCC comes in addition to the existing offer of proceedings before the Dutch court and it is therefore an explicit additional possibility for companies, of course for matters that lend themselves to that. It's a facility they can use. They don't have to. So I can say to Mrs Lokin to reassure her that companies can always go to court. The NCC also offers opportunities, I say, before I deal with the concerns that have been expressed, of course. Later on, Brexit is uncertain whether a London Commercial Court judgment can still be recognised and enforced in the rest of the EU. This could make the NCC attractive to parties who still choose the English court. It is not for nothing that we also see, in other places in Europe, Belgium, France, Germany and Germany, that this kind of form is being developed and developed by the administration of justice. These countries also see advantages in offering such a procedure. Now I also think it is important that the Dutch case law remains socially relevant and provides for a question. The NCC offers the opportunity to maintain and further develop expertise of judges and lawyers in complex trade disputes. The NCC contributes to a strong legal infrastructure in the Netherlands and thus to an attractive location environment for businesses, large and small. You could say that the Dutch economy can also benefit from the NCC. I think it would be a shame if we didn't have that opportunity. Who does the NCC matter to now? The NCC is explicitly intended for complex and international trade disputes. Mrs Lokin asked for a number of conditions to be met. Those are the three, among other things. On top of that, however, it is indicated that, for example, smaller cases, canton cases, are excluded from the NCC. This means that all claims up to €25,000 will not reach the NCC. The NCC is of interest to parties in an international trade dispute, often with increased claims. Part of it is also about the large international companies with complex trade disputes. Sometimes these are millions of euros. What about small entrepreneurs in SMEs, does the NCC have something to offer them? Mrs Duthler rightly said that SMEs can also do international business. I fully agree with that. You yourself mentioned a number of examples. I also see very good examples in Dutch agriculture and horticulture. All these companies in the Netherlands, big and small, need and sometimes benefit from an English-language procedure in which they can resolve international trade disputes. The most important question I have heard here today is about access. Hasn't the NCC become a big company toy? Don't companies that opt for the NCC get some sort of priority with a better or faster procedure? Are the registry fees and the assumption of a budget-neutral effect of the NCC not a precedent? Is access sufficiently guaranteed not only for large companies but also for small and medium-sized enterprises? I understand these questions very well. I believe it was Mrs Wezel who recalled earlier debates here in this Chamber, where there was a high debate on cost-covering registry fees. Now it was true that this was about the regular registry fees. I really want to stress once again that this is a complement to something that already exists and is a choice for companies, but not the normal route. Let me also put two other things first and hopefully remove some concerns. One is that the NCC is not a fast track. It is not a judge where you are served better or faster for an additional price. I would like to say this to Mrs Vlietstra and Mrs Andriessen, who discussed this in detail in their speech. Mrs Duthler specifically asked about Article 6 of the ECHR, about the right of access to justice and a decision within a reasonable time. This applies to all procedures: not only to this one, but to the whole of the Dutch case law. High-quality justice is not just about the NCC. NCC cases are not given priority and are not dealt with earlier or faster than regular cases. It only adds something to what we have now, namely the possibility of running from front to back a case in English, which, of course, is very helpful and useful for international conflicts. The second thing I would like to emphasise is that I am doing this to Mrs Lokin and Mrs Duthler, who have asked questions about this. We are hacking into this, and I understand that very well, because we have not taken such a step before, starting from registry rights for a specific type of case law, which in principle will also have to cover the costs in a long time. Aren't we crossing some sort of principle bridge? I would like to stress that the registry rights that we introduce for this particular form of case law are not a precedent. As far as I am concerned, these registry rights are an exception: they are an additional possibility of being able to sue in English in complex international trade disputes. Then a little more specific about the access. Entrepreneurs make choices all day on the basis of considerations. Often these are trade-offs between what it costs and what it yields. That's what they do when they ask if the NCC is attractive to them. It is not so much the size of the company as the complexity of the international dispute that determines it. In the case of complex international agreements, the parties would like to specify in advance that they can submit any disputes in English. That's what you often see in trade today. It is often explicitly included and recorded in contracts. This can now only be done by arbitration or by a foreign court; not by a Dutch court. In other words, the real comparison for an SME with a major international dispute is therefore not that between the NCC and an ordinary Dutch procedure. No, the real comparison is the choice for the NCC versus arbitration or a foreign court, where English can be challenged. The NCC is indeed more expensive than an ordinary procedure before the Dutch court, but usually cheaper than arbitration or proceedings before a foreign court, due to all kinds of additional costs of translation and travel and subsistence abroad. Mrs Lokin hinted at this in her contribution. Mrs Duthler mentioned a number of examples of Dutch start-ups, for example the ICT supplier or supplier in the construction of a hospital. It is true that large and complex contracts apply. The Dutch start-up often does business with large foreign parties. Now the chance that these large foreign parties will deliberately choose the Dutch court in advance is nil. Dutch civil justice scores high in international order, but foreign companies will not often opt for a Dutch procedure in advance. We often see this in the discussions around contracts. They want to be sure that they can sue in English and therefore opt for arbitration or an English-language procedure abroad in such a case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u4	I hear the Minister say that he assumes that foreign companies will not quickly choose to sue under Dutch law. Can the Minister state on which he bases this statement? Does the Minister see a difference at the time when foreign companies can sue in English? Will they then opt for a procedure under Dutch law? In fact, with this bill, the applicable law remains Dutch law and the Dutch court remains the competent court. The only thing that changes is the language. How's the Minister looking at this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u5	I didn't say they didn't choose Dutch law. I said that they do not choose a procedure in the Dutch language, which also makes sense for an international company. If you, as a major international company, where sometimes the language of the language is English, can make the choice in front of you where you have disputes and in which language the process is conducted, the first choice will often be English and not Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u6	Does the Minister share the view that at the time when proceedings can be brought in the English language which foreign companies will choose for the application of Dutch law and the Dutch courts as competent courts?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u7	That's what we expect. This is also the expectation of the case law itself, also on the basis of inventory discussions that have been made. One of the biggest hurdles is the language. The question that lies behind this is that of Dutch law. In addition, it is expected that this will have attractive benefits for companies. These are only advantages that are often not chosen at the moment, because the answer to the first question on the language is often negative. I indicated something about what then is the comparison that is often drawn now and what is an explicit conversation when making contracts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u8	A question to the Minister. I mean, can't there be a trial in English by now? Just look at the maritime chamber in Rotterdam, where international disputes are also brought, in English. You can do that now. So why this law for this separate room?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u9	The equation doesn't quite work. These are not procedures that take place from front to back in English. Here and there, procedural documents can be inserted in English and I believe that summaries of judgments are made in English. They are not from the front to the back of full English procedures, apart from the fact that they are procedures in a very specific jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u10	In the proceedings in Rotterdam there is also a need for statements in English from front to back. Then why aren't they there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u11	That is a very relevant question. It is a bit like Mrs Bikker's question about the Common Court on the islands. You say that there is a need for this too. I have not yet seen anything of this, but I would like to see what that means, whether there is a need for it, what that entails in terms of organisation and what the legal framework and clamps are. I am happy to do so, but that is without prejudice to the fact that this is still a very valuable addition and does not exclude one or the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u12	Then I would like to ask why there was no broad examination of what is needed, such as at the Common Court and, apparently, at the Maritime Chamber in Rotterdam. Has anyone been in touch about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u13	We have looked very closely at what is needed. There's a need for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u14	Has there been any contact with these courts and has the question been asked whether they might also want those English statements?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u15	I'm afraid to say one-two-three. There was a very clear demand for this. We also see this because a lot of Dutch companies end up using other forms of justice in other countries or private arbitration, which are often costly procedures. There was an enthusiastic response to the possible creation of a Dutch commercial court. Of this we are sure that there is that need. You are now saying that this need may also be elsewhere. I would like to look into that and look into it, but I do not think that this bill should stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u16	Can the Minister be more specific about this need? I have heard the Minister say that there is a need for justice for the Council of Ministers, and I can imagine that he has had exploratory talks with industry. That doesn't mean much to me. I suppose if you want something like that, you have a little more of a picture of that need. It could also be the case that these companies are so satisfied with London and the arbitration that they do not need a separate trading chamber for this in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u17	That could be very good. Among the parties participating in the commercial court government ruling in London, the Netherlands is in the top ten. That's not so crazy, because we're a big international trading country. It also means that apparently a lot of companies choose to go there. This is often more expensive, because attorney fees in London are of a different order from those on the Zuidas in Amsterdam. They're costly procedures. We did not visit all these companies individually to ask them if they would be willing to make the switch to Amsterdam. We have had talks with the umbrella organisations, VNO-NCW, but also with the SME Netherlands. Both like to see this added to the Dutch tree of justice. Mr. Chairman. As I said, the NCC is more expensive than an ordinary procedure before the Dutch government judge, but cheaper than arbitration or proceedings before a foreign government judge because of all the additional costs. Then what are the costs? I will give an indication of how things are going in countries around us and take an example of a two-tonne claim. With the NIA arbitration with three arbitrators, you pay €15,000 quite quickly. After that, that amount often grows. In the case of ICC arbitration, Mrs Duthler had a point here because she said that this is a private form of arbitration, and a trial with three arbitrators costs about half a ton, €50,000. At the English Commercial Court, which is a public form of justice, but in England, there is an entry fee of £10,000. That is a very specific entry fee, because the system is something else there. It's called pay as you go there. On top of that entry fee you pay extra costs per process step. In Belgium, we are considering the creation of an equivalent of what we are doing now, with a registry fee of €20,000. That's a little higher than what we're looking at right now. In the case of large claims, the costs of arbitration are very rapid. The rates at the NIA go up to €1,350 per hour and there is a maximum of €25,000 administration costs. At the ICC it is always a percentage on the claim. If you assume a higher claim of about 1 million, you pay a fare of €130,000. We have a debate on €15,000, which is a lot of money compared to the registry rights for the regular Dutch case law, but compared to what is common in that international domain, the costs at the NCC of €15,000 are actually relatively low. In other words, for a procedure in English, the NCC is a good alternative, including for SMEs with a complex international trade claim. I want to fly it both ways. You can of course say: for SMEs who have a complicated case and can go to a Dutch government judge, the NCC is a rather expensive alternative. They can indeed submit their contracts in English to the Dutch court and then get a ruling in Dutch. This is not so bad for the Dutch SME's, but it is especially difficult for the foreign counterpart. He often doesn't speak Dutch. Therefore, if you agree on which procedure you are going to conduct in the event of conflicts at the front, these foreign parties will not choose that option. Because there is no NCC, they end up with the more expensive variants of arbitration or justice in another country. But you can do it the other way around. If I, as a Dutch flower grower, have a dispute with my Polish seed grower about the quality of the seeds delivered, then there is a good chance that I will have to go to the Polish court for my claim if I have not made any agreements. That is the defendant's place of residence, the main rule of international jurisdiction. Polish judges, apart from all the discussions we have had on this subject, do not all speak Dutch; let me be cautious. It may well be that I will have to translate all the contracts and documentation I have to bring my case to trial in Polish. Valuable. The Polish lawyer will have to prepare the procedural documents for me in Polish and in order to be able to read them they need to be translated back. There will be additional travel and accommodation costs. I think that will soon be reflected in the tens of thousands of euros. I have no idea what else you will get for that in Poland and whether the quality of justice, the speed we are used to here, can be guaranteed there too. I would like to point out that the NCC is also an attractive and more advantageous alternative for Dutch companies that do a lot of business abroad, close to home, predictable and in the language in which you are used to doing business, English. This is the trade-off that SMEs prefer when concluding contracts. With this bill, SMEs will also be able, although more expensive than the regular Dutch case law in the Dutch language, to sue in English in this relatively cheap way, close to home. For example, I would like to explain both the enthusiasm on the part of the judiciary, which wants to work on this, and the support that has been expressed for this, not only by VNO-NCW, but also by SMEs in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Companies using this additional facility shall bear the costs thereof. That is the consequence of budgetary neutrality. At the same time, of course, I hear the questions and concerns. €15,000 at first instance, €20,000 on appeal; they are substantial amounts. Then what is that spent on, what is that for? The amount of the Registry fees is determined by the start-up costs, the English-language procedure, which also requires investment in training, the ICT provision, Mrs Duthler asked for that; the total amount of those 3.8 million amounts to about eight tonnes of debt and, of course, the regular costs of the NCC. We believe that with these registry fees we can put the NCC budget neutral. The choice for this is not a principle but also a pragmatic one. I think it adds something. I would like to offer companies the opportunity to sue before the Dutch public court in English. At the same time, I do not need to tell you how complicated the budget of Justice and Security is. We did not have a great deal of resources left to counter it from the state's finances, from public finances, from the justice finances. That is why we are putting forward this proposal. I think it is important that what we are going to do here should not be at the expense of other people who seek justice. Then the only solution is to apply this Registry Law. Then a few specific questions have been asked about start-up costs and how they have worked. Mrs Duthler and Mrs Lokin asked: some start-up costs have already been incurred, who paid for them and what does "premeditated" mean? The case-law pays the start-up costs of the NCC and receives them back from the Registry fees. These are covered by the future Registry fees received from NCC cases. Those receipts are coming in to the Ministry. In order to ensure that this does not lead to a loss in the initial phase, the case-law receives a contribution from the Ministry in the form of a claim from the Ministry of Justice. That's how we arranged it. Some costs have already been incurred in the development of the digital system; Mrs Duthler asked for them. The case law has tried to keep the costs of such a system as low as possible. That is why it has been deliberately chosen not to build a whole new system, but to build on it, one could say, on something that already exists and is in development: the functioning system of the Supreme Court. Then Mrs Andriessen's question and Mrs Duthler's question, as I tasted it a bit: you are now working on a new branch of the tribe, you are assuming a budgetary neutral effect, but of course there are all kinds of assumptions about that. We establish a registry law, but then we assume certain costs to be incurred and also the assumption of the number of cases to be dealt with by the NCC in the coming period. That's some kind of growth path. Much will have to be done in the beginning to build on the reputation of the NCC, but it may then roll. We now consider about 100 cases a year, 25 on appeal. Maybe that could go higher and maybe a little lower. We need to get a finger on the wrist and see how that works. It was perhaps also said somewhat provocatively: what if profits are made? Let's say it's gonna go so well or the cost isn't too bad that you're not budget neutral, but you're gonna have a little left at the end of the ride. Or maybe you'll have some left over if you've processed your start-up costs at some point. Quite apart from the fact that I think that a term like "profit" does not fit in with case law and that this is really not a form of market operation either. I am quite conscious that if there is a positive financial outcome at some point, we should, of course, look at how one way or another we can bring it back to the same case law. That could then be done along the line indicated by Mrs Andriessen. Then it might be possible to get into the cash, because the case law is not very broad in financial terms; that would be welcome. You could also imagine that at some point you will then take another critical look at the level of the Registry fees in order to fine-tune or adjust them in the long term. Now I'm really out of school that you don't have to sell the skin until the bear's shot. I'd really like to get to work on this. You know my intentions, should there be any positive results, if there are any financial windfalls. But I don't want to anticipate that either. We have made an assessment as realistic as possible, perhaps a little conservative but as realistic as possible. We think we can do this. I would now like to say to the case-law: let's make it happen before we anticipate any future benefits. Mr. Chairman. Just a few more questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u18	Mrs. Lokin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u19	The Minister is very free of obligation in this determination or provision. However, it has been pointed out from several quarters that, should there be or will be financial windfalls, they will then have to go back to justice. Let's just assume they're coming. Can the Minister promise that he will at least make a firm effort to ensure that they return to justice? That's his job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u20	Now I'm gonna smash myself in the head and then I haven't expressed myself very well, because that's exactly what I'm trying to do. However, the way you do that can run through different routes. I can tell by some that there is a hiccup at the level of registry rights. If you have some left over at the end of the ride under the line, you can of course see if those registry fees could be adjusted in the future. You can also choose the variant of Mrs Andriessen. In addition, you say that perhaps we should keep the registry rights as they are, because similar registry fees are levied in the neighbouring countries for these kinds of cases, and then you can use the advantage that you then have in a different way in the same case law. In any case, my intention is not to think here: hey, this is perhaps a profitable form of justice that will yield, and that money can then be used for something else. I want to take away that impression; that is really not my intention. So if there are any positive financial effects, they go back to the justice system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u21	It is a good thing in itself if you lower the registry fees, but that is not beneficial for the courts, but for those seeking justice, let me say. That's a big difference, isn't it? You don't want to make a choice in that yet, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u22	You're right about that. But you also know that we are also discussing registry rights in the regular section. There too, the case law comes up with a great deal of regularity in order to tweak or fine-tune that. The level of registry duties will soon be partly determined as to which cases are being brought. In the whole system of case-law, I have only a few procedural rights and the organisation of the case-law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u23	In this case, and in the case of these registry rights, it is a very special position, as the Minister himself has acknowledged. So we should not compare it with the Dutch Registry Rights. In doing so, it would be for the benefit of the Dutch judges. These are often foreign companies using the Dutch legal system and the Dutch courts, in the English language. I would like to argue that the possible financial benefits of the work carried out by the Dutch courts in this respect for the benefit of foreign entrepreneurs are to the benefit of the case-law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u24	I note that the debate anticipates any positive financial effects in the long term. I would prefer to have this discussion if, in the longer term, there were positive financial effects. Then, I think, we should weigh and see where that ends up in the best possible way. So I hope you don't force me to make a statement in advance. Is this to be found in registry rights or in the organisation of the case-law? I think it's both plausible destinations, but I'd also like to ask you for a little space to see how things turn out later. What kind of business do we get? How is it experienced by international parties, by companies? Very often one of the two parties will be a Dutch company. Is there perhaps a need to differentiate between large and small claims in the long term? That's one of the things that emerged from the consultation. I think it would be wise to keep our hands clear for now, and to have that discussion if it is relevant, in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u25	Finally, Mrs Lokin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u26	Yeah, finally. Have I understood the Minister correctly as follows? He wishes to devote that financial fortune either to a possible reduction in the Registry fees or to the case-law. He does not want to spend that money in the jar of justice or, worse still, in the budget as a whole. Did I get that right? Is the Minister going to tell you that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u27	You have that promise in your pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u29	Mrs. Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u30	The Minister talks about "longer term," "longer term" or "the end of the line." What are we supposed to think about? When is the Minister going to take stock of the situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u31	The formal answer is in ten years' time. That is a bit of the duration we have thought of. Within ten years, this should be able to spin around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u32	Is there an informal answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u33	Well, I have the impression that you are coming to the microphone and that you are going to say: that is a very long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u34	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u35	So I can imagine that in the meantime, after five years, we will also have to see how things have developed. Are we ahead of schedule? How did the costs develop? That would also be an acceptable time-limit for me to make an interim evaluation. Mrs Andriessen asked how this proposal relates to the letter of 16 November on registry rights. The letter of registry rights does not change anything in the current system. It concerns a slightly different differentiation of the Registry fees for the regular cases. What is in front of us does not apply to that. It's really a deviation from that regular system, you might say. I would like to stress this point of departure, because I know that Mrs Andriessen is concerned that it will be a precedent. She thinks: will we not say yes for the first time and will not then come to the Minister and say: you said yes then, so you must now go along with this? I really think this is a very special and specific procedure for a specific kind of thing. I would very much like to keep it separate from the broader discussion we are, of course, having about registry rights in the regular system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u36	I do need to ask how this change in registry rights is actually being regulated. Does that happen now, as you suggested in the House of Representatives, like at the NCC? You're being a little easy about that, but to my knowledge, it's just gonna take a change of law. Would you mind telling us how you're gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u37	Indeed, this also requires approximation of legislation and regulations. Now, in this bill, there is the specific designation of registry fees for this particular procedure. I sent the letter to the Chamber on 16 November. I would also like to discuss it with the Chamber on the other side, but I hope he can count on it. Two or three weeks ago, we had the debate on the Justice budget. In my view, there was broad support for this to work at a slightly lower rate, particularly for those small claims in regular commercial transactions. That means that I will then have to come up with a legislative proposal to amend the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u38	If the Minister were to differentiate those registry rights at the bottom, so in the case of small claims, would the Minister be prepared to take a look at the differentiation in the registry rights for the international trading chamber, which we are talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u39	I find that a little more complicated myself. At the international trading chamber, we know about the flow of business, unlike in regular cases. We know the numbers, the behavioral effects, the choices that are being made. On that basis, we can also predict a little bit how that will work out. We have now said on this basis: we believe that those who opt for the NCC will often be right-seekers with the heavier ones, with greater claims, if only because the lower limit of €25,000 is in it. That is why we have chosen one rate here. I am not saying that this will always be the case, but I think it is too early for the NCC to be able to say something meaningful about what will become a good cut-off point and exactly how it will work out. Because if you are going to apply a slightly lower rate on a particular case, then you will also have to apply a higher rate on certain matters in order to have that budgetary neutral effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u40	I expect that those communicating barrels that the Minister is talking about will fall with you now that the Minister in several Chambers has also indicated that the bill is mainly intended for large companies with great progress. I therefore believe that the effects of differentiation on pricing and on registry rights will not be so bad now that, according to the Minister's expectations, it will be mainly used by large companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u41	Of course it's a bit of a coffee dick watching, because there is no NCC yet and we haven't done any business yet. So we don't have any experience yet. That is why I am reluctant to change this right now, if the ink of the law is just dry, immediately. My proposal would be not to rule that out in advance, but to take that with us if, for example, we do the evaluation in five or ten years' time. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs Duthler's question as to whether the case law should first put other things in order before starting the NCC; that question is also a bit challenging, I think. That is actually quite an essential question. I get this question not only in the discussion about the NCC, but also in a number of trials and experiments with neighbourhood judges, for example. These are also new forms of justice, close to the people. They also sometimes require extra energy, extra time, extra investment. I encourage that incredibly, because I do not think that one should exclude the other. For a relevant case law, and we have such a good case law in the Netherlands, you not only have to make sure your house is in order, but you are also obliged to think again and again about what to do to remain relevant to the people who want to use the right, to ensure that you have a living rule of law. That's why I'd be in favour of doing and-and doing. I am very aware of the great challenges that lie ahead of me and the justice system to simply get the house in order, but I think it is really necessary to look at what innovations you need to provide for relevant questions of justice. Then there's the question of who's gonna sit there later. Are there gonna be judges-alternates? I can tell you that the judges who have now been selected for the NCC and the NCCA, the appeal, are all judges of appeal. In general, lawyers can be used as a substitute judge, but the policy of the case law is that lawyers are not deployed in the same district, court or court where they are active as a lawyer. That's a little something you hinted at, that policy would prevent Amsterdam lawyers from acting as a judge-alternate in the NCC. I hope that will also remove that concern. Mr. Chairman. Then cassation. How's that? Should all those procedural documents be translated? The Supreme Court has indicated its ability and will take note of the English-language procedural documents of the NCC. The Supreme Court may ask the parties for a Dutch translation if this is necessary for the sake of a proper order of procedure, but that is ultimately for judgment to the Supreme Court. We have had consultations with the Supreme Court on this bill and they say that they can get away with it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mrs Andriessen's question. If you're going to sue in English, how do you make sure the quality is right? Is there any surveillance on that? Oh, excuse me, that question was not from Mrs Andriessen. There is not some kind of organ that does a check afterwards, but we are really trying to invest even more in the front. The selection of judges and counsellors shall take into account the fact that they must be able to speak fluent English. Sometimes they're native speakers. Sometimes they are near-native speakers; people born here but so to speak have been studying abroad for a long time or have worked, have applied in London or otherwise. And we are also very consciously committed to good training for the people, some of the start-up costs will be included in that too, in order to get the legal terminology right. In this respect, I am sure that there will be no doubt about the control of the English language of the judges at the NCC. Mr President, I have run out of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u42	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Lokin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to use this time-limit to correct what Mrs Duthler threw at me in the first round, namely that the Paris court that was set up would be a private organisation. That is not the case. It's just an international chamber at the Paris Court, a tribunal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u44	To make it complete, they both exist. The ICC Paris is an arbitration institute that can be held in English. I think this is where the confusion came from, because you were thinking of the court in Paris and I was thinking of the International Arbitration Institute, including in Paris, of the ICC.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u45	Yes, and that Paris court can also judge on appeal cases in which that International Chamber of Commerce, your organization, has initially ruled. But besides that, it's just an independent court. I'd like that corrected. It's not a private organization. Furthermore, I am actually grateful that the Minister has answered all my questions this time. I am even more grateful to him for the commitment he made and for the express notice that these more than cost-covering registry rights are no precedent for the Dutch regular registry rights. I just wanted to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u46	Thank you, Mrs Lokin. I give the floor to Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his clarification. As has just been mentioned, I heard the Minister speaking on behalf of the government say that no precedent can be derived from these high registry fees. I'll take that as a commitment. The Minister indicated that he did not know if there had been any contact with the Chamber of the Sea in Rotterdam and the Common Court as to whether there was a need for a full English case law there, from start to finish. On this point, I would ask the Minister to do so, including the users of these courts and chambers, and to inform the Chamber of the results of this consultation. The groups of the SP, GroenLinks, Party for Animals and 50PLUS will each consider whether they are voting against the present law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u48	Thank you, Mrs Wezel. I give the floor to Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u49	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his detailed answer to all the questions. My group would like to make a few more points. I have heard the Minister say that the NCC, the NCCA, is going to apply to small and large companies, that the kind of case determines the choice of the NCC and that parties can always go to court. That last remark sounds a bit like a cloth for bleeding, but perhaps the Minister means it differently. I'd love to hear that from him. Because my group is really wondering whether these parties will be able to deal with that ordinary judge. Because these foreign companies, as I have already mentioned in the case of interruption, are often not inclined at all to include a clause which, under Dutch law, will be brought before the Dutch courts in the Dutch language. So I would like to have a reflection from the Minister on how he takes that into account when he says that the NCC applies to large companies and small and medium-sized enterprises. That it contributes to an attractive locational environment, my group does not doubt that at all. That also means that my group thinks it is an attractive legislative proposal for that reason. My group continues to have difficulty with the level of registry fees and the threshold it creates for SMEs and the introduction of cost-covering registry fees, which would really be a novelty. My group has also noted that there will be no precedent for this bill. Another point where I myself stayed behind was that the Minister indicated that the real comparison, the real choice for SMEs is a choice for the NCC or for arbitration. But that's a comparison between government justice and private justice. Isn't market forces introduced into the justice system? In my first term, I brought forward a quote from the General Council of the Dutch Order of Lawyers. I would also like to have a reflection from the Minister on that. Because comparing government justice to private justice is really something else. I certainly won't repeat everything. I asked a question about the differentiation in registry rights in the first period. The Minister indicated that he will take a look at this in his evaluation. I'd like to hear more from him about that. Would he not even look at this in the discussion he is having with the House of Representatives on the amendment of the Registry Rights Act in civil matters, without postponing it until the assessment in five years' time? An important point is still the introduction of cost-covering registry fees, the level of registry fees and their significance for access to justice. I would like to hear more from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u50	Thank you, Mrs Duthler. I give the floor to Mrs Andriessen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u51	Mr President, thank you for giving this govern ment such a clear explanation of the background to the NCC. I would like to stress that our group also considers it an important part of the NCC that the Netherlands can participate in the legal form of international trade law and that we do not need to go abroad. What remains a question is English. I have already indicated that there is much more legal representation in English, especially in the field of trade. Could you perhaps come up with a legislative proposal after this to ensure that all commercial law takes place in English? I am here for the first time today, and one of the things that strikes me is that good initiatives are sometimes overtaken by time. This NCC proposal has been in existence for some time and you are now experimenting with registry rights and with other forms of case law. It is actually very unfortunate that this innovative idea cannot be included in the other two plans that you now have. That would be a bit difficult right now. However, I agree with Mrs Duthler when she asks whether the system of registry rights which is apparently to take place in commercial law can be taken into account when the Minister looks at registry rights. We are recommended for more interesting innovations in justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u52	Thank you, Mrs Andriessen. I give the floor to Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u53	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for his answers. Clear answers as far as I'm concerned, regardless of whether or not you agree. The Minister sees great benefits for Dutch companies when the NCC is set up, also in view of the Brexit, he says. I can follow that. That sounds plausible. At the same time, however, the Minister does not give any insight into what the real need of our industry is for a provision such as the NCC. The Minister claims to have consulted VNO-NCW and with SME-Netherlands. But honestly, that doesn't tell me that much. I can imagine, in general terms, that they consider this to be an addition which could benefit their members. But what is the need of business, I haven't actually heard about it. Perhaps the Minister could say a little more about that. The Minister mainly sees the NCC as an additional possibility for which additional payments can be made. I would like to summarize it in my own words: no regular form of case law, so it is justified not to apply the regular registry fees for this. It almost seems as if the minister sees it as a product: if you want to pay, you can buy that service. I therefore think that the Minister is very ignorant of the somewhat more fundamental discussion which Mrs Wezel and Mrs Duthler discussed in detail and which our group joined, with reference to a statement by the President in a different capacity, made a number of years ago. To be honest, I feel more at home in that statement than what the Minister said. I would very much like the Minister to go a little deeper in the second term on this principle: are we going on a good path, even if it is only for the international trading chamber if we go towards cost-covering registry rights? You then charge for companies actually being cheaper when they are able to go to the NCC than when they use London or arbitration. I think that is a reasoning which is very far removed from what we see as saying, but the pillar of justice in our democratic system. So I need the Minister to go into this in more detail. I have also listened carefully to the Minister saying that this has no precedent. I would like to say a few words about it, because that was my question: not even for future innovations. I understand that it does not have that for everything that justice has to offer at the moment, but we have also discussed in detail in the policy debate the need for, for example, neighbourhood judges, peace judges and other innovations that will be paid for. I would therefore like to see that this precedent will not apply to any future innovation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u54	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u55	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his clear and clear answer, which was also to the point. I have heard very well that he said that this is not a precedent for cost-covering registry fees in the regular system, and I have noted that with agreement. At the same time, of course, it is an exception that we are creating. My fellow Members have spoken with great emphasis on the fundamental side of this. I would also like the Minister to be able to go into more detail as to why this is the exception that it deserves to take that trip and not to be a precedent for other matters. With regard to the impact on access for SMEs, I can agree with what Mr Duthler said. However, I would ask the Minister to keep a close eye on this point in the evaluation he is going to carry out informally in five years' time. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to see whether it is a good thing for all the ordinary people who seek the right on the islands to point out the verdicts there only in Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u56	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I see the Secretary of Law needs two minutes. Then I'll give him four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u57	We will continue the discussion on the legislative proposal 34761, English-speaking case law international trade chambers court and court of Amsterdam. I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u58	Mr. Chairman. In my view, there are three major points in this second period which still require an answer. The first is, with super tip on number one: the principle point. Mrs Duthler and Mrs Vlietstra asked for this, as did a number of others. That is about whether this new form that we are introducing now tends towards market forces. The answer is unambiguous: no, just not. This is not about a product, it is not about market forces, it is about a form of Dutch government justice that we want to introduce to Dutch parties who now need it. The fact that we choose the Registry fees and these rates is not based on a principle, but on pragmatic considerations. That has to do with the budgetary reach and the possibilities we now have. Maybe I should get a little sharp. The question on the table is not whether we opt for the NCC with these registry rights, or whether the registry rights may be reduced. The budgetary space we have simply does not make that possible. The question before us is whether we all choose an NCC or not. Implicitly we say to the companies that would like to use this: then it has to be in the old way, then you are dependent on arbitration or on a judge abroad. I would also very much like to offer Dutch companies the opportunity to opt for the Dutch government judge. Mrs Duthler asked: how exactly does it work in practice? She referred to what I said about free choice. If there is a large company that has to sue the NCC, to what extent is there a free choice? We see in free trade and in free contract formation, as regards the way in which parties wish to settle their disputes in the future, that large companies will choose to make agreements on the front, often as part of a contract, or sometimes through arbitration in the general terms and conditions. With this bill we want to make a Dutch possibility, namely that a Dutch company brings in that you don't necessarily have to go to London, or later to Brussels or the ICC in Paris, which runs in the papers, that costs a lot of money, but that there is a very good alternative available in the Netherlands, in the English language, but under Dutch procedural law. I think this is a very good alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u59	I would like to make the point that the Minister wants to make it possible for all parties. However, these big companies will soon be able to opt for arbitration that they already have. Those smaller companies, which can also be very large companies, do not opt for international arbitration, because the costs may be too high. They will also pass the door of the NCC, because it is too expensive. So in fact, you're creating an opportunity for the big companies. They already have a choice, namely international arbitration, and they are now given a choice. You're creating less for smaller companies right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u60	This is something I really do not see. It is not the case that there is an additional possibility or choice for large companies. In the conversations between companies in the Netherlands and abroad, it is often the case that a large international trading partner says: I would like to do business with you as Dutch small and medium-sized enterprises, but if we have a conflict I will not go before the Dutch government judge in the Dutch language and so we make the agreement in our contract that we will then sue in English. Then there are a few choices. You can go to an expensive arbitration institute, or you can go to a government judge in London, or maybe later to a government judge in Paris or in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u61	My point is that this SME entrepreneur now has no choice. That leaves the choice of forum in a contract running. At the time when he would have that choice of forum to submit a dispute to the NCC, he would make use of it. But he's not doing that now because it's too expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u62	I really dispute that, because it also has great advantages for small and medium-sized enterprises to agree in advance on how to conduct your procedures. I already gave the example of a Dutch farmer and horticulturalist doing business with a large Italian processing company. You don't want to have to go to Italy to bring your case to justice. So it also has a great advantage for Dutch small and medium-sized enterprises to make clear agreements on an English-language procedure at the front. Only now, by definition, an English-language procedure is costly, expensive, because you have the choice between arbitration or London, while it is poorly available in the Netherlands, at least not in the form of a Dutch government judge. On the contrary, I would like to offer the possibility that this can be done in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u63	I'm not questioning that possibility. My group is very pleased with the possibility of presenting a dispute to an international trading chamber. The point I want to make is that when you submit a dispute to that international trading chamber and you lose it at first instance, you have a risk of a court judgment of €30,000. If you go for an apple, you'll add another $50,000. So that process risk becomes very high, namely at least €80,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u64	With every process you conduct and every procedure, you have the risk of losing it and getting beat up for a large part of the costs, including those of the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u65	Yes, but a quarter of it or €80,000, so €16,000 max or €80,000 max, makes a huge difference to whether or not you go to a judge. Am I gonna let it go, take my loss, or am I gonna move on to a judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u66	It always will be. That will also be the case if, as is the case now, you make agreements on arbitration or on litigation in London. In fact, if you lose then, the account is even higher than in the example you give. I would like Dutch companies not to be forced to go to London or to a expensive arbitration institute to join or join them, but to have a reasonable alternative in the Netherlands, where they can go to the good, old-fashioned Dutch government court. Yes, the registry fees are higher than in ordinary civil law but they are significantly lower than, or at least very competitive with, the initiatives that are being developed in countries left and right of us. Then the question is whether you choose to increase that choice for Dutch companies. I can tell that there is a need and enthusiasm for it. That's a political choice you have to make at some point. Mrs Vlietstra has asked if the real need is there. The answer to that is yes. And I'm not just distracting from the letters you received from companies and umbrella organisations. The case law itself has also done thorough research, a kind of market research conducted by BCG... The term'market' is now being used here on my right; it may not be the right choice to use it. Well, let's call it a needs check. At least that investigation was done to see if there was any enthusiasm for it. That has been exactly the basis for estimating how many things we could expect on an annual basis. Finally. Several spokesmen with different links have asked questions about something that could very well follow next, namely what the needs are on the islands, at the common court, at the Rotterdam case law on maritime matters, and perhaps even D66 referred to it in relation to trade regulations in a broad sense. This is what I am going to do, and that is also a bit of the concrete commitment that is being drawn from me. I'm going to explore this and see if that need is indeed there and exactly how big it is. I will therefore make it clear to you what the consequences would be if you went along with it in part. Of course, it also has a lot of possible consequences in terms of organisation and law. I'd be happy to map it for you. Mr. Chairman. I thought it was an enlightening debate myself. I hope to have taken away some of the legitimate concerns here in this house. The last time it was on a subject such as Registry duties, it did not end well. I hope for a more positive result this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u67	Perhaps in abundance, but I had asked the Minister whether this precedent or rather no precedent would apply to any subsequent innovations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u68	Full-bodied, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u69	I am no longer clear on what the Minister has said about this differentiation in registry rights at the time when he is going to amend the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u70	That...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u71	Then I'm referring to the Registry Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u72	That is going to happen in the very near future. I do not see one-two-three possibilities for making that directly applicable to this. There has really been a very good study of what we can expect in terms of numbers of cases and what is a reasonable level of that registry law that would also be good for access. I have a very strong preference for looking at how things are developing and how many things are eventually coming and whether that meets our expectations. Then we'll be able to get a good look at that after five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u73	We can take this as a commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u74	Yes, the commitment in two steps, namely the commitment from 10 to 5 and the commitment to include differentiation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-10.u77	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I propose to vote on the bill next Tuesday.
