ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u1	We are starting the debate on cryptocurrency. The first speaker, the applicant for this debate, is Mr Paternotte. He is speaking on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u2	Madam President, thank you very much. One sees in cryptocurrency a lawless Wild West to play cowboy without having to worry about the sheriff, in fact an amusement park for tax evasion, money laundering and gambling. The other is in the HODL-gang and feels that some suffer from FUD: fear, uncertainty and doubt. They hope to become a Whale via bitcoin, or are already a BearWhale, who can leave it wide and think in bad luck: buy the fucking dip. Mr. Chairman. As a D66er, I see this polarization and then, as a matter of course, we look for the hard nuance. Because yes, criminals use blockchain and cryptocurrency for their own purposes, but the operation of cryptocurrency, and the technology behind it, can actually be drivers of innovation and used for a more sustainable economy. As the apostle Paul wrote in his letter to the church in Thessaloniki: researches all things and preserves the good. It's just not gonna happen by itself. According to D66, this takes steps. One: regulation and supervision. Firstly, there must be a legal framework, with a clear mandate for the supervisor. Some countries, China and the United States take the easiest route of banning, but this will kill any kind of renewal. Yes, criminals are now gratefully using the hype surrounding bitcoin and other currencies. Some companies issue tokens and promise the world profits, but when it comes to it, the token holder is not entitled to anything. This crime has little to do with currency and blockchain itself, but all the more so with abuse by evildoers. So let me be clear: any form of online crime must be combated vigorously. But because crypto coins are now outside any law, rules of the game are unclear and criminals sometimes have free play. As a result, the supervisor does not have a mandate to act. The AFM itself concludes that. A national law is not sufficient, because blockchain is a cross-border system. That is why I ask the Minister to quickly come up with a European legal framework with his European colleagues. Developments are fast and European processes are slow. Until then, the Netherlands must regulate cryptocurrency itself, with a clear mandate for the authority to monitor and act. Two: when something looks like an investment and smells like an investment, it's an investment. Companies can present their own crypto coin with an initial coin sacrifice and suggest that a piece of the company is purchased with such a token. That's what we call a share. Investors in the Netherlands are entitled to a prospectus containing all key investor information. Those who are fooled can claim their money back. But someone who invests in an ICO is entitled to nothing at all. Therefore, investors need clarity and rights. ICOs should be subject to the obligation of such an essential information document. As with other investments, investors need to be given fair information. If they don't get it, they should have the same rights. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Like I said, cryptocurrency has a history of childhood diseases. But there are also very nice examples. In Rotterdam, neighbours already share their solar energy. The reckoning is done with its own token. Groningen people living in poverty get a budget for certain shops and sports clubs. The blockchain doesn't involve a bank account. But before we can fully exploit the potential of blockchain, it needs to be made safer. And more energy efficient, because at the moment a bitcoin transaction costs as much energy as a family uses in three weeks. What's the best thing? East Asia is a precursor. There you see two models: ban, as China does, or regulate, as Japan does. In Japan, cryptocurrency now has a billion-dollar impact on the economy. Parliament has adopted the Virtual Currency Act, which places cryptocurrency in specific exchanges, exchanges, which protect investors. At 4,000 stores in Japan you can just pay with bitcoin. So it leads to a lot of innovation. The Netherlands has a tradition of embracing new ideas. When others know cold feet, we don't know them. Let the Netherlands become the breeding ground for this kind of innovative technologies. There are now a lot of unsolved initiatives, from hackathons to a blockchaindelta and a knowledge lab at TU Delft. Make sure that these initiatives can work together under a clear umbrella and that knowledge is brought together. With this, you accelerate innovation and knowledge development, and blockchain can also make the promise he is going to deliver. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. The next speaker in this debate is Mr Van der Linde. Mr Van der Linde speaks on behalf of the VVD Group. Go ahead, Mr. Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mr. Chairman. The introduction of the bitcoin in 2009 was a milestone. A virtual currency, well secured and deployable worldwide, is ideal to support global trade on the Internet. Possibly, it's a way of bypassing the entire monetary system. No wonder that coin was quickly embraced by people who have little use for the existing financial institutions. I'm a little less enthusiastic about the bitcoin as a universal currency. That currency fluctuates far too much in value to be a good means of payment, let alone a means of savings. Monetary policy cannot be conducted with it, and it has quite a few technical limitations. The number of transactions is limited to about seven per second and that is not close to Dutch payments: on Saturday before Christmas we could process 200 pin payments per second. Tiredless! Add those problems to the huge energy consumption of the bitcoin and you feel that this will not become the global currency. As Mr Paternotte said, it takes 250 kilowatt hours per transaction and that is just as much as a household consumes every month. But at the same time, that bitcoin is a fantastic and educational experiment. It is a system that is virtually unbreakable and robust by the decentralised set-up. The blockchain technique behind it is one of the biggest innovations of the past decade. That can be the solution to a major redeployment and improvement of our financial system. And a next cryptocurrency could probably handle those millions of transactions per minute, without that insane energy consumption. Just a clever algorithm that allows you to adjust the money supply to the real economy. And such a coin is then linked to the euro or the US Dollar or a mix of both. And with derivatives, you can protect yourself from currency fluctuations. For this reason alone, we must now give full room to the bitcoins, ethereums, ripples, dogecoins and the 1,500 other crypto currencies. The more experiments are carried out, the better if it eventually becomes a global payment platform. And maybe we should consider those bitcoins not as a means of payment for the time being, but as some kind of charity lottery. You can win something with it, but eventually society as a whole wins. I regret that some of my colleagues are lining up to nip new developments in the bud. A motion has been passed earlier to prohibit cryptocurrency from being paid for with your credit card. There's a motion to ban futures on bitcoins. Why can't I take care of that with my credit card and why can't I cover for risks? What problem do we solve with this and why should the government interfere? Let's deal with real problems. I want to decide for myself what I spend my savings on, even if they are bitcoins, but I don't want to be deceived by parties that pump up the course and then get off quickly. And we don't want cryptocurrency to be used for money laundering, drug trafficking or any other criminal activity. And we don't want our innocent neighbors being manipulated to put all their savings on cryptos. But you know, Mr. Chairman, we already have so many rules. We have rules on payments. We have rules for investing. We have rules for gambling. Why aren't they just applicable? Why do DNB and AFM say they're empty-handed? I understand that the Minister is now focusing on solutions at international level. That is fine, but we could also look at our existing legislation. Is it so complicated to mess with the Financial Supervision Act and to apply as much as possible to this kind of currency, so that, for example, those initial coin offerings are treated as an ordinary issue? Do we not get very far when we dust and update existing legislation? Is the Minister prepared to release a few people for that? The approach of the VVD is clear: embrace technique, release people, protect good Dutch people from abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u5	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linde. Mr. Alkaya of the SP has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u6	On the one hand I hear the VVD say that there is the potential that in the long term there will be a currency with the benefits of the bitcoin but not the disadvantages; so no high energy consumption, but the convenience and the decentralised character, for example. On the other hand, Mr Van der Linde says that the government should not interfere too much. But who, according to Mr Van der Linde, should issue such a coin?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u7	We can leave that to the market. My point is that we have legislation for everything in this country. I just don't understand why this legislation doesn't apply to this kind of thing. But if your suggestion is that we should have a bitcoin or something shaped by the central government, my response is: well, no, because we already have a central government that deals with money units.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u8	Then what I don't understand is this. As Mr Van der Linde pointed out, one of the biggest problems with bitcoin is the enormous price increases and decreases, the volatility, as it is called. For that, you need a control tool on volume. It also enables monetary policy to be pursued. That is one of the advantages that Mr Van der Linde indicated. I do not know which market player, coupled with the euro, would like to spend this if the central bank could do this very easily. So I really don't understand why the VVD would be against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u9	I don't rule out the central bank turning to blockchain technology sooner or later. The beauty of innovations is that they always come from external forces. They always come from outsiders, from new entrants, who come up with new exciting things. Let's give them some space.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u10	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linde. Then we'll continue with the next speaker. That's Mr. Nijboer. He shall speak on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We need to talk about cryptocurrencies from the supervisor, not cryptocurrencies, as we heard at the hearing. That's what I'll try to do. The PvdA Group was rather satisfied with the cabinet letter. It says: cryptos are insufficiently regulated and it is an international currency. Above all, we do not recommend investing in it; the Minister has been very clear about this. And we really need regulation, but it is best to do so internationally. We as the Netherlands may want to invent the wheel, but that is what we have to do in Europe, and actually in the world. The world will be a bit tricky, because in China it is completely forbidden. But we need to tackle this at European level. That line supports the PvdA Group. We do have a number of questions on three main points. First of all, the risks of fraud, abuse and that sort of thing. There are more and more reports of some kind of pyramid play that is taking place. Of course, there are a lot of names for coins that are new again. People can sit in a circle at home and be convinced, as we used to know from baking products you could buy. It's just some kind of pyramid game, and what's going on? There are also more and more international publications about the distribution: who actually owns the bitcoins, for example? There are 100 people who have the most bitcoins. They own about 17%; at least that's the estimate. With ether it is 40%, and with a few other coins, of which no one has ever heard, it is 90%. Of course, that is very sensitive to market manipulation and to simply cheating. What's the Cabinet gonna do about it? There is little about that in that cabinet letter, and it seems to me to be something the cabinet should do about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u12	Mr Paternotte of D66 has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u13	Mr President, you heard Mr Nijboer say that he does not think that we should totally ban the cryptocurrency, as in China. I'm really glad to hear that. I do know he's in favour of making sure that cards don't allow you to buy a cryptocurrency. Isn't that the same thing, because it's smoking out the possibilities of buying a crypto coin at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u14	What I don't want is that you can put yourself in debt through credit cards and a detour into coins that aren't meant for that purpose. We have regulation at banks. You can't go to a bank in the Netherlands with your entire wealth, sell your house and then put everything in one share of Shell. At least, a bank can't give you that. You may think that that is allowed, but it is not allowed, because that is what the duty of care opposes. That's what I want with cryptos. I believe that banks have a responsibility in this and that credit card companies in particular should not do so, especially if you collect and invest a pile of credit cards. I think it is a bad thing, and I do want to protect consumers from it. In that we may differ from D66. It says, "Go ahead, sit on the blisters." But we want to protect people from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u15	This is total bullshit. Most credit cards in the Netherlands are issued via banks and are linked to payment limits, spending limits, which fit the spending pattern and income pattern of that person, tested by the Dutch banks. It is not like the United States where people can spend tens of thousands of euros in debt without a decent income. So why would you forbid people who have a spending limit of $2,000 to make such a transaction with that card? Isn't that just an attempt to eventually make that cryptocurrency impossible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u16	I do not know what reality Mr Paternotte is living in. But if you see the debt problems in the Netherlands, where hundreds of thousands of people sometimes have €10,000, €20,000 or €30,000 debt, often credit card debts, also with combined cards, then it really is a denial of the reality that this could not be a problem. This is already a big problem in the Netherlands and I'm afraid if you add bitcoins, ether and what's the name of that other stuff, you'll get people into even more trouble. And I'm an opponent of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u17	Mr. Paternotte, I'd be happy to allow you to respond one more time, but I'm going to be relentless when you're out of three interruptions twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u18	Oh, that's hard to pick!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u19	I see Mr Paternotte...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u20	And yet I would like to know about Mr Nijboer. Because I think he's fighting a symptom and not fighting the cause. With the same credit card people can also walk to the casino and bet money there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u21	That's not what I'm here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u22	No, but then the problem is that people shouldn't be able to get a certain limit on their credit card or shouldn't be able to get a credit card at all? You should do that instead of restricting people's freedom to do something with a credit card that all other people are allowed to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u23	I think banks should be sure that if they facilitate something... It is just as it is when investing: if they know that an investment is not good, they should not participate in it. To be honest, I have great doubts about a lot of cryptos and I do not think that banks should participate in them. I have just mentioned the example that the first 100 90% of the coins have. You can't rely on that, can you? Dutch banks should not participate in this, especially with credit cards, because that will get people into even more trouble. So I'm an opponent of that. We disagree on that. It's possible. We disagree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u24	Let's see what's going on with Mr. Van der Linde of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u25	I'm losing track a little bit. I hear on the one hand saying: we all have to regulate it nicely, it's pretty good and we have to accommodate it. On the other hand, banks should not cooperate in any way. What's the PvdA's course?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u26	That one side, the one of "it's all pretty good," didn't hear Mr Van der Linde right. That is not my view. I'm not very excited about crypto coins. I have mainly joined the AFM, De Nederlandsche Bank and the minister, who said: pay attention, big risks, you are being fooled, risk of money laundering. I've asked whole sets of Chamber questions about it, especially with the CDA. So there is no enthusiasm about that. It's about technology, by the way. This does not alter the fact that it is there and that it cannot be completely banned. But I do want to make it difficult. And that goes with the fact that I don't think it's a good idea to buy all that stuff with credit card debts. I think banks have a responsibility in that. I think that if there is crime in it, that should be addressed. If you're gonna come up with pyramid games, I'm gonna come up with a few other points in a minute...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u27	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u28	Then it needs to be regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u29	Your point is clear. Mr. Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u30	Suppose I do a computer game, World of Warcraft or I don't know, and I buy raw materials with my credit card that I can bet somewhere. I've never played the game before, but that's how it's been explained to me. Is it allowed to do that with a credit card?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u31	Play a computer game? Well, I guess so. I see no objection to playing a computer game.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u32	But you're gonna lose that money anyway. With a bitcoin, you can still get it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u33	I will tell you even more: I am not in favour of banning credit cards. If you buy something, you lose the money. That's kind of the principle of buying. I don't need to explain to the VVD how the market works. If you buy a product, for example, if you order a book, you lose your money. That also applies when you buy a computer game. I think it's pretty logical that I think so. It's something else with an investment that involves big risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u34	Mr. Nijboer, I suggest you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u35	I'd be happy to. I thought it was quite a nice debate with the liberal parties in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I have a second question. It's more about national regulation. The Minister says that we must do it internationally and at European level. Like I said, I understand. At the same time, the survey given by the Minister shows that in France and Germany, it is said that these are actually financial instruments to which the existing regulation might apply. I tasted between the lines, if I reason a bit my way, that the VVD might feel that way too. Why doesn't the Netherlands actually do the same thing as Germany and France? Then you're not so crazy that you're gonna invent the wheel yourself, but we're actually saying that it all has to be European when there's not so much going on until then, except for some warnings. Why didn't the cabinet take the same approach? My third point concerns energy consumption. That wasn't mentioned in the letter. I believe that a letter from Secretary of State Keijzer came some time ago saying that companies use energy in this world, and they use a lot of energy. I did not think that was a very convincing cabinet response, because this is, of course, a big problem. There are even houses that are no longer connected to energy. You are now getting a currency about which not everyone is equally enthusiastic, but which is slurping an enormous amount of energy, while we all need to use less energy. That's actually an innovation that's going the wrong way, because it all needs to be more energy efficient. How does the cabinet see that, especially when this is getting bigger and bigger? The Netherlands is known as an ICT node. That is also very good and with that blockchain we have to get going. Groningen's big at that, too, and I'm proud of that. But it has to be a little energy-efficient. Does the Cabinet have any views on how this can be stimulated? 'Cause that's not gonna work out, of course. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u36	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. Then we shall continue with the fourth speaker of this debate, Mr Ronnes. He shall speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have to be careful what we say tonight. When in January a South Korean minister suggested that there might be a ban on trade in bitcoin, the price dropped by about 13%. For people with 1 bitcoin in possession, this meant a loss of 2,000 dollars, a loss that was later made up for a quarter. I have even heard that the course has risen a bit. But this example shows that the world around crypto coins is still in full swing. There is still a long way to go for a stable currency, on which payments should be based. We cannot even speak of a stable investment. Very risky for the home, garden and kitchen bellows, and there lies the danger. Is it sufficiently clear what risks are run when a student invests his student's student loan or when a moral family invests his savings in cryptocurrency? How do we prevent Icesave scenes? In our view, friendly citizens should not be the victims of evil financial locusts. The CDA Group is therefore pleased that this minister preaches restraint when it comes to investing in cryptocurrency. Think before you begin. There are over 1,500 cryptocurrency in circulation, although this figure fluctuates upwards and downwards. It's very unstable. So you'd almost wonder why we don't just put a brake on cryptocurrency and ban the whole trade and token creation. The CDA doesn't choose that route. We also see opportunities in development and especially in the underlying techniques. The blockchain technology has very interesting applications. It is safer to do so because it is possible to trace well over existing financial products, and where fraud is still taking place, blockchain might offer a solution in the future. It can also bring a government further in its services towards citizens. It is very important to develop sufficient knowledge and skills as a Dutch government, but also as supervisors. If we do not do this, we will, in our view, quickly catch up with the facts with all the consequences. It is therefore about how we ensure that the positive aspects of the cryptocurrency remain, while at the same time ensuring reliable products where citizens do not run the risk of losing their money quickly. In our view, the answer lies in awareness, good supervision and clear legislation and regulation. The CDA therefore sees a role for the government to protect citizens from these risks and advocates the following elements. The first issue, together with regulators and consumer organisations, is how to raise consumer awareness of cryptocurrency opportunities and threats. In addition, the government should require providers to provide customers with a warning in the form of a type of risk indicator when buying cryptocurrencies. In addition, it is important to properly organise the supervision of the AFM and DNB, so as to be able to intervene in cryptocurrency in the event of mischievous behaviour of market players. Our preference is also for an international approach. Cryptocurrency is also a cross-border currency, but it is also very useful to see what we can do nationally. The third point is to ensure that crypto service providers pass on the value of crypto portfolios to the Tax Administration, as banks now do with savings and stock portfolios. In the world of cryptos, billions go on, so it's obvious that tax evasion can play a role if the cryptocurrencies are abused.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u38	Mr. Ronnes, Mr. Azarkan from DENK has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u39	My question through you to Mr Ronnes is about the supervision of the AFM or DNB on these currencies. I don't know if he means the cryptos or the ICOs, but I have no idea how we're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u40	ICOs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u41	That's an issue. You can buy some kind of stock. If someone makes an issue of tokens, you can buy a share. The question then is whether that is an asset or a coin. This has been studied very well in Switzerland, for example. That is where the legislation is very good. Then it turns out that Switzerland and Singapore...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u42	And what do you want from Mr. Ronnes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u43	That supervision is complicated. If it turns out that Singapore and Switzerland are the two countries where most ICOs take place, how are we going to monitor that? So what exactly are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u44	It is good that the question is asked, because that gives me the opportunity to deal more specifically with where I think supervision is very important. Purchases and sales take place in the course of trade. When it comes to the course of action, it must be said that it represents the value very well when people press a button. There should be no timing, nor should the costs or fees that are charged be extremely high. They need to be made clear to the people who buy courses. That is not the only thing, but it is important that these elements are comprehensible to ordinary citizens at the time of a transaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u45	It's fine that you explain that again, but my problem is something else. It seems rather complicated to me for De Nederlandsche Bank or the AFM to take care of that with someone who goes online and buys a number of currency via his Dutch account. How are we gonna do that? If I buy something online, what else can DNB do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u46	That is why I would also like to point out that it is important to look closely in the international context to see how we can comply with international rules, which you can then maintain with those parties that have established themselves in the Netherlands, and with agreements with other countries to do so in those other countries. That is also the question to the Minister. How does he intend to shape this and how can we make it workable for the supervisor? Consumer protection must be at the heart of the matter. If an ordinary citizen puts his expensive savings into such a coin, it must be a reliable product. That is far from it, as I see it at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u47	Locking up, Mr. Chairman. I share Mr Ronnes' concerns. My problem is that he says very nicely that De Nederlandsche Bank and the AFM have to supervise it, etc., but that the experience is that at the moment we simply can't get the Googles, the Apples and the Facebooks to pay a bit of a decent tax at all in a European context, let alone that we can organize some supervision of currency development from Amsterdam, in this case De Nederlandsche Bank and the AFM. I don't know how the Minister's gonna organize that, but let's wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u48	I'd like to respond to this. I am pleased that Mr Azarkan agrees with me that consumer protection should be at the heart of the matter and that we should deal with it very carefully. It simply indicates the need to put the rules in order. That's not easy, I agree with you. Otherwise, we would have had that regulation a long time ago. But I am making a call here, and that is how we see it, to see if supervisors can respond adequately within the playing field for which they are responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u49	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u50	Then I come to the fourth point. Some forms of cryptocurrency result in extremely high energy consumption. It has already been mentioned by several speakers. Of course, it is difficult from the point of view of financial regulation to set a limit. When it comes to sustainable development of techniques for the future, it is an element to take on board. Perhaps we should give that a place somewhere, perhaps in another policy area. I don't think we should lose sight of it. I would like a response from the Minister to the points I have raised. My question is whether if legislation needs to be adapted, he really wants to do so. Finally, Mr President. I am pleased that the Minister is carrying out the motion on derivatives such as bitcoin futures that I submitted together with Mr Nijboer. A ban on consumer advertising for such products will follow this year and the Minister is committed to achieving a European general ban on sales to private individuals. In our view, these are really important steps, as are the way to do this European, given the cross-border nature of the products we are talking about here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes. Mr. Alkaya has the floor now. He shall speak on behalf of the Socialist Party. By the way, ICO stands for initial coin sacrifice. The expert people know that, of course, and the people who are not experts probably don't know what is meant by it yet. I give the floor to Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try to avoid such terms as much as possible, but with this subject it is quite difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u53	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u54	Mr. Chairman. How reasonable is it to blame tulip bulbs for the tulip bulb crisis, how reasonable is it to blame homes for the real estate bubble and how reasonable is it to blame Internet companies for an Internet bubble? Huge price increases or abrupt decreases, speculation, manipulation, deception or even outright fraud are the order of the day when it comes to cryptocurrency, but how reasonable is it to blame bitcoins for this? It is capitalism that brings out the worst in people and makes of basically useful things, such as tulip bulbs, homes, internet companies and now also cryptocurrency, speculative objects, with all the consequences: damages etc. The bitcoin is more of a victim in the current situation than the culprit. Are there no problems at all at the moment with cryptocurrency and bitcoins? Of course I do. As with any form of new money, laws and rules are needed here to guide developments. If you become a victim of a fall in the course, for example, or even worse, of fraud, there is often no safety net. Of course, Cryptocurrency is not currently seen as a financial instrument or as an investment object. The Minister indicated that, pending an international approach in consultation with financial supervisors, he would consider what he could do at national level to enforce abuses. What's the status of that since the letter? Have there been any calls? What can we do at national level? Money has already changed character with every new technology. From tracking transactions on clay tablets to saving coins and letter money on the printing press and now internet banking, smartphone apps and cryptocurrency. It changes all the time. Instead of resisting this kind of technological development, the government must actively intervene and control all changes in order to exploit the potential of this kind of technology in a fair and controlled way. If we do not do so, then we will leave the new technologies to the market and they will simply make a mess of it, as happens so often. You can see that now. Therefore, an entrepreneurial government should fully embrace cryptocurrency and establish a strong regulated public currency. Other countries are already working on this. Sweden is already furthest along with the e-krona. What exactly is the basis for this, which technology is used, is of secondary importance. We all see that blockchain technology and mining lead, for example, to high energy costs and unreliable situations. It's still slow, too. But we'll figure it out as technology progresses. We can also use other technologies. We had an extensive briefing from De Nederlandsche Bank and discussed all the advantages and disadvantages on the basis of their experiments with the DNBcoin. I would like to ask the Minister to extend these experiments and, in the long term, to bring these experiments out as well. At the moment, they are only done in a controlled environment and therefore also to test how they would work in the outside world. Is the Minister prepared to do so in due course? Such a public digital currency would bring great benefits. Ten years after the financial crisis, there has been little fundamental change in the system. The two main concerns are still the same. First of all, our savings are still not separate from the risky activities of banks. Banks are still taking risks with our money and the profits are for the benefit of the shareholders, but if things go wrong, the taxpayer has to pay. Such a public digital currency could be owned by the user and a safe haven for savings. Second and final point: for internet banking. So transfer money to each other and to stores, for which we are now completely dependent on banks. A public digital currency could put this more under government control, which means that we have that bit of vital infrastructure under our control. In short, Mr President, let us not blame cryptocurrency for the shortcomings of our capitalist financial-economic system and embrace the technology to become less dependent on banks and speculators as a society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u55	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. Then the floor is for Mr. Mulder. Mr. Mulder speaks on behalf of the PVV Group. Go ahead, Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One calls it gambling and the other sees cryptos as an investment. For others, it is not just a means of payment, but above all a political statement, because: money without a government, quite special. Anyway, the cryptocurrency and certainly blockchain technology are great inventions. After the Internet and mobile data traffic again advanced technological innovations, all in and through Western civilisation, I also say to Mr Alkaya in particular. The free West is doing very well. These new technologies are moving fast. The total value of the cryptocurrency runs in the many billions. There are half a million people in the Netherlands alone who own cryptocurrency. I'm making a point, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u57	Because Mr Paternotte has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u58	I know the obsession of the Party for Freedom with the free West, but you do know that this invention comes from the free East, which was at some point in Korea, Japan and China about 90% of the total cryptocapital and that this innovation started there? How can you explain that, Mr. Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u59	First of all, the inventor is still not really known. He's a great mystery gentleman with a Japanese nickname, but there are a lot of people who position him in Australia. But apart from that, since World War II, Korea and Japan are just part of our free Western society, with democracy and capitalism. It's what it is. It may sound annoying, but they're just part of the free Western world. I can also recommend everyone to go to Japan or South Korea. They're great countries with beautiful Western freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u60	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u61	Mr. Chairman. Nor is it unimportant that we have yet to see whether this new technology will change our world forever. But the fact that the blockchain and crypto coins are still remains is clear in the meantime. And these are digital developments, which are not bound by a country, a language or anything like that and are not bound by a government. They're here and we have to live with it. However, some regulation is possible. Politics can partly influence and control that. That is a good thing, because there are not only advantages to these new developments. There are also a number of points of interest. Tonight a large number have already been mentioned. The PVV therefore advocates bringing cryptos within an appropriate regulatory framework at international level. In plain Dutch, that is: yes to regulating and no to banning. About the blockchain. It may not be as frequent in the news as the cryptos, but the developments may be even more spectacular. Blockchain really adds something. Think about it: drafting fraud-proof contracts is already happening. Safe storage of medical data is feasible. And a little closer to this house and this room: fraud-free and simple voices, just at home from the bank will soon be feasible. Long live the referendum! Although that is probably not the reason why D66 requested this debate this evening. Remains to ask my question to the Minister. Does he agree with the PVV that regulation should take place internationally and that Brussels has no added value in this regard either? Once again, Brussels fails. We need to settle this internationally. And all on the side, Mr President, you know the PVV: we always close cheerful and optimistic about the Geertcoin. Yes, the Geertcoin. It's back in value today, and that's good. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u62	Thank you, Mr. Mulder. Then the floor is now for Mr. Snels. Mr Snels will speak on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u63	Mr. Chairman. I have tried to read in today's debate and try to deepen the technological developments underlying the cryptocurrencies. And I'll just make one confession: that's not easy. I feel like a bit of a digibeet. At the same time, I have the feeling that we are all politicians, even though there are certain exceptions. Understanding what blockchain technology can do, what opportunities and risks are attached to it, is not easy for non-technists. Then you see two certainties in politics. The first is: we're always behind. Developments go faster than we can make as political rules to adjust them. That is part of this debate. The second is the understandable political reflex to see the risks in particular. I believe it was the German sociologist Ulrich Beck, who already wrote books about this ten years ago that said we ended up in a risk society. That is a society where we are only fascinated by risks and risk prevention. Actually, you can see that in the Minister's letter. After the introduction on what cryptocurrency, ICOs, futures and binary products are, it's about controlling risks, especially about money laundering and other forms of crime, and about protecting people. Moreover, the risk of energy consumption has not been mentioned. I sometimes see reports that it costs a quarter of our energy consumption. I would like the Minister to be able to say something about that. Anyway, I think it's right to look at risks. I agree. I think that these digital currencies and derivatives have little influence on the real economy, but so far they are also mainly used for very risky investments, for gambling sometimes even or for capital flights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u64	Mr. Snels. Oh, did I fall in the middle of a sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u65	So I support the Minister's commitment to coming up with European legislation on this and monitoring it. It is understandable that we are also trying to protect people as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u66	Thank you, Mr. Quick. Mr. Alkaya of the SP has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u67	My colleague from GroenLinks says that the government is always lagging behind. If that comes from that side of the Chamber, I never mind, but does my colleague agree with me that the government should not always lag behind? That important developments such as GPS, the Internet, space travel, are driven by the government? That the subject of payments and money creation is important enough and that the government should not be behind the facts but should be at the forefront?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u68	I'm about to say a few words about what the government should be exploring in order to catch up. The second part of my reply concerns the assumption that technological developments always come from the market. That is what Mr Alkaya is right in saying: that is not the case. For example, the internet originated from the government, GPS originated from the government. What market players are usually very good at is inventing applications with new technology, with fundamental technology created by the government and through public investment. I therefore fully agree with you on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u69	I am glad that I have asked this question and that the answer has been recorded forever. Because this is exactly the point I'm talking about: in this kind of fundamental point about infrastructure, as a government, we should not go after the market but lead the way. I am glad that Mr Snels agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u70	Sure, and I'm going to name the other side now. So I agreed with the commitment to protecting people, especially because you see that the way products and derived products are used now has negative consequences; there are risks. But there is that other side: the promise of a new technology and exploring what is all possible. I want to know from the Minister how he looks at that. He is right that money and value are beyond the scope of the Tax Administration, for example, due to anonymity. But in theory, you don't have to. Through blockchain, which is a kind of digital accounting that is also superior to the old-fashioned accounting system, any transaction is recorded and could theoretically, because technically, any transaction can be visible and monitored, perhaps even by the Tax Administration. Then the problems at the Tax Office would be solved very quickly. But then we need to know how the technology works and, as I say to Mr.Alkaya, we should, as a government, also interfere in steering the direction in which the technology moves. So should we not explore that, I ask the Minister. Or what about the payments? Here's a relationship with PSD2, which we'll be talking about soon. We also want to encourage innovation there. It is not yet the case, but digital currency could play a role. But what if big tech companies do that? Shouldn't we be concerned about our privacy and social power? What if Google is going to issue digital currency? How does the Minister see the relationship between the debate we are having today and the debate on PSD2 in the near future? Shouldn't we know more about that? One more example: in theory, via blockchain, anyone could also get an account at the central bank. Then all banks have to do is credit and mortgages. This would reduce the risk of banks considerably, but it also has implications for monetary policy. That too is still future music, but they are directions that are interesting to explore. We know that central banks are conducting experiments; the BIS is also thinking about this. But as a government, we need to understand better how that technology works and what promises are attached to it. We also know that the WRR is carrying out a study on the money system, but I do not know to what extent the WRR takes the rapid technological developments into account. Can the Minister say anything about that? When's this study due? What I do think is that the government, we as politicians, with knowledge institutions, with start-ups, with technicians and with supervisors, should work on a strategic agenda that addresses the possibilities of new technology, the opportunities and risks, not only for payments but also for market power, privacy, and what role the government should actually play. How does the Minister himself view that? What initiatives would he like to take and what initiatives have already been taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u71	Thank you, Mr. Quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u72	Then I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u73	Right. Mr. Mulder from the PVV wants to ask you a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u74	I don't understand why bank risks are getting smaller when the banks start using blockchain. In my opinion, it is unique from both the cryptos and the blockchain that there are therefore parties going away. If you slide a full bank apart again, the uniqueness of both technologies will fall, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u75	No. In my opinion, there are all kinds of possible developments, but you could think of that that makes that technology possible in the end; now it wouldn't even be technologically possible for you to have an account with De Nederlandsche Bank individually. That's the account that makes the payments. And the other banking products, such as loans and mortgages, could go through banks. If banks get into trouble again, payments will be secured. So you split risks. That's an interesting thought and direction to think about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u76	Yeah, that's interesting. But it's even more interesting to realize that just because of that blockchain technology that whole bank or a third party no longer needs to record a secure written transaction. That's the beauty of it. You don't need it for that anymore. If that's how you're gonna think, you're not gonna need that couch anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u77	No, that's true. In my view, there are many more possibilities. I didn't start that for nothing. That really goes beyond my knowledge of what technology can do. But what if you want a mortgage to buy a house? I can easily imagine that you do not automatically transfer money via blockchain technology to a real estate agent and have bought a house with it, but that you still want to get advice from banks and brokers. I wouldn't want to take out that role of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u78	Would you like to go again, Mr. Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u79	No, because then I'll say the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u80	Good. Thank you, Mr. Quick. The last speaker is Mr. Azarkan. Mr Azarkan speaks on behalf of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u81	Mr President, thank you. That is the advantage if you are a small fraction; then you can close.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u82	I think it has something to do with whether you sign up for a debate soon. But go ahead, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u83	Mr. Chairman. It has just been mentioned: half a million Dutch currently own cryptocurrency like bitcoins. That is what the Minister writes in his letter of 8 March. A year ago, bitcoins and cryptocurrencies were still quite abstract for a lot of people. It is now being discussed, and we are ready to discuss it in committee today. The bitcrash of early this year has put a brake on that unbridled growth. I can talk about that. Sometimes you have to experience it yourself. I got in right after the peak and I know the financial pain, just like all the other people who've experienced it. It reminded me a bit of World Online, when that stock exchange rate, just after it went up to the 52 guilders, quickly descended towards the 20 guilders. We sang that too. Mr. Chairman. The question now is whether the government has sufficiently protected me and many of those others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u84	Mr. Paternotte wants to spend his one-after-last interruption on you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u85	Before we talk about the protection of Mr Azarkan, he is now telling us that he is a bitcoin owner himself. When you just explained the term "initial coin sacrifice," of course you also called it a "share." When Minister Hoekstra took office as minister, all his assets were examined with him and he was advised to dispose of his shares, because that is still a possible conflict of interest. So I would like to ask you: do you think it is possible that you yourself are speculating on something that you also regulate as a Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u86	I have a fundamentally different view of this. I think it would be wise for Members of Parliament to speak on the basis of experience. I know that doesn't happen much here. I wanted to go through the experience to see exactly how that works. We just used a few terms, too. At the moment I don't own bitcoins, but I have a share in a number of courses via bitcoins. That's another thing. I think it's a good thing I experienced that, so I can tell you about it firsthand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u87	I don't know if you have bunnycoins or ripples or anything, but the fact is that you're in a position with which you have a lot of influence. Mr Ronnes just mentioned the example of South Korea, where it was banned, after which the bitcoin rate fell 13%. If I understand correctly, that cost 2,000 dollars per holder of one whole bitcoin, which of course isn't that many people. So my question is: do you think it is possible that you yourself are on the buttons for something that you have so much influence over, what effect does it have for other people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u88	I think that Mr Paternotte is going through a bit, giving me power that unfortunately I do not have and a portfolio that I unfortunately do not have. I've tried on a very limited scale to experience what it's like to be able to tell firsthand how it works with cryptocurrencies. I did that because I think it's important that you were able to experience it as a Member of Parliament. I think Mr Paternotte is overreacting, and that is not strange to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u89	That's quite an entrapment. Go ahead, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u90	No one knew you had this, when you have been making all these statements about it here in the last few months. Are you at least willing to make transparent what crypto possession you have? You say it's not all that big a deal, but you also said you've been through a lot. So you want to make that transparent?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u91	Mr Paternotte isn't listening very well. I immediately indicated in the hearing that I had these possessions. So if you had listened carefully at that hearing to which Mr Alkaya referred, you could have heard that I had those possessions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u92	On the one hand, you think: you can ask all the questions, and that can also be done in a debate. But on the other hand, there is also a bit of conflict of interest if you ask it that way. I would like to support Mr Azarkan here. In the hearing, he immediately indicated quite openly and honestly that he has these things and that he has looked at how all this can be done. We have to be a little clean here in the Chamber. I'm not gonna do anything myself. But there are undoubtedly Members of Parliament, including from the D66 Group, who have shares in companies. That's not illegal. I do not want us to take the measure of each other in such debates: you have a kind of interest in something and that is not right. I'd like to have said that anyway. I think Mr Azarkan is very transparent about this. I have a lot of debates with DENK, but I do not think it is right that he should be attacked on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u93	Thank you. I propose that Mr Azarkan continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u94	Mr. Chairman. The DENK Group is very positive about the so-called blockchain technology. Blockchain is already being used to regulate effective payment and securities transactions, in particular for tracking transactions. As a result, transaction costs are falling dramatically. Contracts, payments and ownership relationships: everything can be maintained much more efficiently thanks to blockchain. And there will still be many applications possible. Intermediaries, such as banks, will be less or no need. It goes just like the post: it became redundant because we also received a large part of our e-mail. Yesterday I read an interesting message in Nieuwsblad Transport. Three Japanese shipping companies, together with eleven other companies, will investigate how blockchain can help to reduce the administrative burden considerably. This could save hundreds of millions of euros in the long term. These companies are still dependent on freight letters and other documents, but thanks to blockchain and another platform they want to set up, there may only be a very simple "paper flow" that does not involve any real physical paper. And there are many more companies investigating the application of blockchain technology. I wonder if the Minister can inform the Chamber about which Dutch companies are engaged in further developing the application of blockchain. Can he take this with him in his fall update? Technological progress must be promoted by the government if it leads to a sustainable competitive advantage for our companies and thus for our country. I would like to hear from the Minister how he feels about this and how he can include blockchain in the EU's top sectors policy and digital agenda. I would also like to know from the Minister what else the government can do with this. For example, do we have many start-ups in the Netherlands in this area compared to other countries? Are we working on a cryptopolder in Almere or Delft yet? Mr. Chairman. Blockchain has also delivered the bitcoin and many other coins. The bitcoin has something nice too. Mr Mulder has already referred to it. It is a currency that is not created by the government or by the money-creating banking system. It is a currency of and for the citizen. It is a currency of freedom, as is the Internet itself. But of course there is also a shadow side. Mining of new bitcoins costs a lot of power. But so did the first computer. Bitcoins can also be used as an uncontrollable means of savings and exchange for criminals. How do we deal with these cryptocriminals? I'd like to hear if the Minister has any ideas about that. And what's the minister gonna do with the initial coin offerings, the ICOs? That is the introduction of a new crypto coin offered for sale. The Minister comes with an update in the autumn and states that he is in the process of addressing this in a European context. That's a long-term process, and I don't think that's going fast enough. The Internet world is moving at a furious pace, and what do we do in the meantime? Does the Minister share my view that it is important that the legal framework and supervision of cryptocurrency be clarified quickly? We don't necessarily have to invent the wheel. We can also look at the Swiss example. The FINMA uses three classifications for ICOs: is it a currency, is it an asset or is it a utility token? On this basis, they developed the supervisory model. How does the Minister feel about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u95	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. We have come to the end of the first term of office. I'll take a look at the minister to see how much time he thinks he needs. Ten minutes, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u96	The next item is the first term of office. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance. I ask the members of the Chamber to take their seats, or at least to listen to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u97	Mr President, thank you very much, also for drawing attention to what I have to say and answering questions. You already encouraged me to do it all quickly and staccato during the break, so I'm going to try that too. Mr. Chairman. We have often had an exchange of views on this subject. The interesting thing is that since Christmas the price of the bitcoin has fallen considerably but other cryptocurrency has taken a big flight, while we all know that bitcoins are not without risks. Supervisors, others, and not least myself, have warned against this. In addition to concerns about the loss of deposits, there are also increased risks for the use of cryptocurrency for criminal purposes, such as fraud and money laundering. At the same time, as several Members have said, the underlying technique of cryptocurrency offers a lot of possibilities. In my view, this is the broader point that various groups have made here and with which I very much agree. On the one hand, we want to mitigate the risks. On the other hand, we also want to stimulate underlying innovation. With both, we need to go the right way. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ronnes asked how supervision could be shaped. I want to regulate cryptocurrency on the basis of four principles. One: the gaps in consumer and investor protection should be closed where necessary. These measures must then be proportionate. Two: we must continue to guarantee the integrity of the financial system. See the very serious concerns in the area of money laundering. Three: the technique behind cryptocurrency must be retained. Fourthly, due to the cross-border nature of cryptocurrency, this must be done at international level. Many Members, including Mr Nijboer, have said this very explicitly. I notice that there are some differences of taste between the groups, but no matter how you think about the cryptocurrency: it is an illusion to think that you, as the Netherlands, could only do something about it. Mr. Chairman. Mr Alkaya asked about the state of the national approach since the letter. As I said, I think it is particularly important to do something about it internationally. At the end of March, ESMA announced a number of robust measures to protect individuals. Within the EU, the 4th Anti-Money Laundering Directive is amended. Pending the European approach, I am intensively discussing the national possibilities with AFM and DNB. I will come back to the comparison with Germany and France, to which Mr Nijboer asked, but we are also trying to take steps ourselves. Mr. Chairman. Mr Paternotte, Mr Mulder and Mr Ronnes asked whether there would be a European legal framework soon and whether adequate supervision and consumer protection would be achieved. I think it is exactly as those three Members have asked. We certainly shouldn't ban the bitcoin, even if we could, because we can't do that, but we need regulation. I therefore want to bring services within an appropriate regulatory framework, precisely to mitigate the risks and to channel and stimulate innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u98	Let me be clear: the PVV certainly did not ask for this to be put into a European framework. The question was more focused on the fact that Europe would not add anything and that it should be an international framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u99	Then I have interpreted it in a way that is still foreign to PVV Europe. But if I have caused any misunderstandings about the love that has or has not been lost between the PVV and Europe, then I would like to remove it immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u100	Mr President, excuse me again for the sake of clarity. It is a definition issue, but we, as PVV, are very fond of Europe on the continent. We have problems with the EU, set in Brussels. So we do not want measures through Brussels but international measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u101	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u102	I hardly dare to say the words 'European legal framework' anymore. I think the nuances are clear. In any case, we would like to address and resolve all of this internationally, and to a large extent also at European level. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Van der Linde asked about the approach to trade in cryptocurrency. He asked: why do DNB and AFM say they are empty-handed and why are the rules on investment not applicable? In my opinion, he also specifically said: could not a few people be released from finance and go to work with it? I try very sparingly to deal with the people at Finance, but apart from that: cryptocurrency is currently outside the rules for investing because they do not meet the qualification of impact within the meaning of Article 1.1 of the Financial Supervision Act or any other financial product. That is probably about the answer Mr Van der Linde had expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u103	Well, let's see if he expected that. He'd like to make an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u104	Then tomorrow we'll change Article 1.1, because then we'll have exactly the hook I need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u105	We could definitely think about that together. I would add that these ICOs are often structured in such a way that they fall outside the scope of the financial supervisory rules. I was not yet at the end of my speech, because I wanted to point out to Mr Van der Linde that I agree with him that we need to see which rules of regular supervision are in place. I think we can agree on that. For precision, I'll add two more sentences. That's exactly what we're investigating with AFM and DNB right now. These are, of course, also the parties with whom we should and should want to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u106	Am I to understand that the Minister says that these ICOs are no effect in the sense of the Wft? If they do have the character of an effect and show the behavior that you expect from a share and they create the expectations that a share raises with the people they buy, then it is just a question of whether you think in principle that, where possible, you should bring it within the scope of supervision. It is understandable, of course, that the publisher of an ICO is trying precisely not to be under supervision, but it is in our interest to protect the people who buy to do so if it is in line with the expectations that these people have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u107	I hear very well what Mr Paternotte is saying, but he will also want us to explain the law only as it should be explained: lex dura sed lex. Perhaps we need to amend the law, but at the moment we do not see a possibility to muffle it underneath it, because it would be a good thing for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u108	That is precisely why that is not the question I am asking. You don't have to muffle it under it, but make sure the law fits what it's meant for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u109	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u110	The law is intended to give the people who feel that they are buying a share the protection that goes with it. That is why the fundamental question: if an ICO resembles a share, shows its behavior and gives rise to expectations among people, shouldn't you try to bring the ICOs under the law? You may have to change the law for that because we have to keep the law predictable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u111	Mr Paternotte and I very much agree on that. The first question, the test question, is whether it's true that those two things are so similar that you actually have to qualify them as the same? That is what Mr Paternotte says, and that is indeed a condition for us to be able to ask ourselves then whether we can see the possibility of adapting the law so that it is all covered by that legislation. That is Mr Van der Linde's question, and that is precisely the question before us. I very much agree with that. Then Mr Ronnes asked whether there was sufficient clarity as to the risks to consumers. Yeah, that's the question, of course. It is a good question, because consumers are obviously at risk when buying cryptocurrency. That is why I have also said from the outset, almost immediately after my arrival, 'think of honour you begin' or words of similar effect. It was just about the effect that some people have had on the course, and I at least had very little effect on it. There are major risks involved. All the states I saw after that, until a few months ago, showed a rise in the price. It also showed that a large number of Dutch had boarded. The AFM and to a lesser extent DNB have shown similar sounds. Apparently, many people thought this was a very attractive product. At the same time, we have seen just this calendar year how extreme that rate can fluctuate. So it can also go down very fast. The price risk is therefore considerable. That's why I remind people of that. When it comes to regulating the provision of services, I explicitly focus on looking at risk indicators and information towards consumers. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer specifically asked about France and Germany. Mr Azarkan also referred to Switzerland. If you can do something at national level, you should also want to do it; I certainly share that with Mr Nijboer. I think my answer went in the direction of the duo Paternotte and Van der Linde also in that direction. We are certainly going to study what the Germans and French have done, but if I am quite honest, they have said quite a lot, but they have not changed the world dramatically on this point; let me put it carefully. Besides, they've both done something different. The French supervisor has recently provided specific explanations on how he classifys different types of cryptocurrency and tokens at ICOs. He also explained what legislation would apply. By the way, the German supervisor has done something else. It has previously imposed a licence requirement on swap platforms. I am very willing to see if there are any other elements. I would like to pledge that to Mr Nijboer. My broader pattern recognition is next. If you examine what is happening, as we did as a ministry for writing that letter, and if you are playing a role in the vanguard, as I think the Chamber would like and as I do, you will see that what colleagues and fellow officials in other countries were not quite awake on this subject; let me put it this way. They themselves struggled with the question: what should we do, when should we do it and how should we do it, at national, international or at European level? Mr. Chairman. Mr Paternotte asked whether there should be no regulation as in Japan. Japan has had a licence requirement for swap platforms since last year. So that looks like the German situation. This includes requirements for board members, solvency and risk management. Those are certainly interesting examples. The commitment I just made towards Mr Nijboer, therefore, is also directed towards Mr Paternotte when it comes to further studying the Japanese context. I am also going to do that again with the AFM and DNB. I'll inform the Chamber in the autumn. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Nijboer asked: who actually owns the bitcoins and what is the cabinet going to do about market manipulation? Bitcoins and other cryptocurrency are of course anonymous. The owners are not known. That makes it complicated, at least as far as the first part of his question is concerned. As regards the market manipulation to which he referred, he is right. That is what we are talking about, and it is sometimes even publicly called upon to do so. Maybe that's not as surprising when you realize what the property relationship is, to which he himself referred. That is why, as a cabinet, we want that regulatory framework. Let me be clear about the limitations. Cryptocurrency is traded worldwide through hundreds of exchange platforms. So it's not that easy. We are looking at what we can do about it at European and national level. A variant of this was Mr Nijboer's question about pyramid games. What happens to that? It's good to mention that the Gaming Authority says that cryptocurrency is not a game of chance. At the same time, it does not rule out the fact that pyramid games are being organised on this subject. That is, of course, worrying. I would like to say to Mr Nijboer that I would once again point out to the Gaming Authority that we want to continue to be informed about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u112	Mr Nijboer wishes to interrupt. Mr Nijboer, Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u113	I think it's a pretty good commitment in itself. It is of course the case that people in pyramid games and in market manipulation are all looking for possibilities that the legislator does not take them. The Minister is now saying that pyramid games and market manipulation are just a risk. So if we know what's going on, we'd really like to see action taken and not a law to see if it's a game of chance and if it's a game of chance, do the law, or else another one? It's just screwing around. So that's what the D.A.'s got to go after, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u114	Totally. I just want to make that distinction, because that's important for the kind of debate you're having and for the consideration of who you're sending in. In a broader sense, I also agree with Mr Nijboer that abuse and fraud have long been the focus of attention and should also be of interest to the investigation authorities and the public prosecutor. Of course, he's right about that. I also understand that the FIOD has carried out a considerable number of cases in this area over the past two years and that higher penalties have been imposed by the judges in this type of case. But the reason I referred to the Gaming Authority is that it seems to have some insight into and impressions of these pyramid games. I think that is the specific point that Mr Nijboer referred to. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Azarkan asked, we have now entered deep into crime, how we deal with the criminal use of cryptocurrency. That is, of course, a very fair question, which is about something we should not want. Frankly, it is one of the greatest concerns, which we have, of course, already discussed at European level. The fact that it's so anonymous also means that it's an ideal place to launder criminal money. I would like to say to Mr Azarkan that the Dutch investigation authorities are paying particular attention to this. I have just referred to the FIOD, but it is also happening internationally. Just a few last things about the ICOs. You just said what it means. It is the counterpart of the IPOs, the initial public offerings, which we know from companies that want to go to the stock market. Mr Paternotte asked whether ICOs could come under the same rules with regard to information documents as other investments. I referred briefly to the IPOs. I am also committed to a European approach to ICOs. I want to play a leading role in this with like-minded countries. In addition, I am looking with the AFM at the possibilities within the existing regulatory framework to enforce them. I share Mr Paternotte's view that it is important to have good information at ICOs, because that helps consumers to make a good, well-balanced decision. That is a rather complicated road, I say right away. I would like to say to Mr Paternotte that I will inform him of this particular point in the autumn. I can just imagine that he'd like to know how it's progressed. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a rather rich block of others, containing the blockchain, energy supply, supply DNB and a few other things. First, on energy consumption. Mr Nijboer and Mr Ronnes asked for this. How do we look at energy consumption? It's true: IT costs a lot of energy at all and bitcoins cost a lot of energy. Mining bitcoins simply has adverse energy and therefore environmental impacts. It takes a lot of computing power to verify those transactions. This leads to considerable energy consumption. The comparison a few members made was nice. If I can extrapolate it a little further: if you add everything together, you're just talking about the energy supply of a medium-sized country. So that's really serious. This is, of course, regrettable. However, I would like to point out that this problem is particularly affecting abroad, that energy prices in the Netherlands are relatively high and that we do not seem to be attractive for mining in the Netherlands at the moment. Mr Nijboer's question was: what can we do about it? I also sensed a certain appreciation of a particular letter he had received from the cabinet. If we take energy supply seriously and know that we are thinking about the climate, I think it is sensible and important to start working on the climate agreement in the context of the EU, and I think we should bring the industrial table to the fore on this particular point. Frankly, I do not know how big or how small this is in the energy supply if I sell it against the chemical industry, for example. I have no idea what the proportions are there. But at least I would like to bring it to the attention of the Secretary of State and the Minister of EZK. I think they have a better view of the proportions and also of whether it is wise to place this at the industrial table. I'm almost out of breath from all the quick talk you want from me, but we're getting along. Mr. Snels was singing praises on the blockchain. Others did, but not as pregnant as he did. Shouldn't we be exploring that area anymore? In that case, I believe that we are not so much on the regulatory side as on the second part of my mantra: we need to mitigate risks, but we also need to stimulate innovation. As a government, we are preparing for the implementation of new technologies in many areas. At the moment, the cabinet is working on a cabinet-wide Dutch digitisation strategy, as it is so beautifully called; I do not know if I can pronounce it correctly a second time. The Secretary of State for EZK is in the process of doing so and will send that strategy to the Chamber. It is almost impossible whether this digitisation strategy will also reach Mr Snels. After that, I am sure we will discuss this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u115	At least that would save me a second-term motion, because I had such a motion in preparation, partly because I feel that we do not yet know exactly what the possibilities of blockchain are. Can I ask the Minister, in this digital agenda of the government, to take a very specific look at the role of the government, not only in regulating, for which I am in favour, but also in stimulating? Does he want to address, for example, the role of the central bank and even the question of what it could mean for monetary policy? My question about blockchain was pretty wide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u116	May I make it so that I share the wishes of the Green Left and Mr Snels, the Secretary of State for EZK, and say that otherwise another motion by Mr Snels is hanging over my head like a sword of Damocles, so that I very much hope that she will take it seriously? Then we will discover together what will become of this Dutch digitisation strategy. If, for my part, that still needs to be supplemented, I am of course happy to be available for that. Mr Azarkan asked which Dutch companies are working on blockchain and what I think of bringing blockchain into the EU top sector. Again, I have to refer to the digitisation strategy. I would also like to take this point, because Mr Azarkan, like Mr Mulder, has rightly expressed the great possibilities of blockchain that we are already seeing. Presumably there are also a lot of possibilities that we are not seeing at the moment. So I'd like to be willing to do that. Mr Alkaya asked whether the experiments with DNBcoin could be extended. Digital central bank money, in jargon CBDC, is an interesting development. He and I are very much in agreement on that. A number of Members, including Mr Snels, have said that you might be able to reduce risks. At the same time, it is fair to say that these CBDCs also pose risks and that you should not go into them lightly. I think we can all imagine that we also have a rather complicated situation when we have blocked all that money later, but something is going wrong and we can't get to that money anymore because it's all very well secured. So yes to thinking and encouraging research. The WRR has now indicated that this will be included in the research into money creation. I would like to say this in the direction of Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u117	I am very much looking forward to the WRR's report on money creation, but I specifically asked the Minister if he is prepared to bring the experiments that are still taking place in a relatively protected environment into the outside world in the long term, so that we can also see how that currency is developing in the outside world. Other countries are already working on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u118	I would like to be a little careful to say something on behalf of DNB. If I am not mistaken, DNB has given the Chamber a technical briefing on this matter. I honestly do not know by heart whether Mr Alkaya asked the same question at the time and if so, what the answer was. DNB is really leading the way in carrying out these kinds of experiments where De Nederlandsche Bank thinks this is useful. I would like to say to Mr Alkaya that I will discuss this again and put it on the agenda of the regular consultations I have with the President of De Nederlandsche Bank. But I can't promise him that DNB is going to expand this in the direction he wants. That would not be good either, given the independence of DNB.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u119	With the Minister's promise to bring it up, I can live fine. I am asking because I asked DNB this question and asked it during the round table. DNB has mainly looked at the technical possibilities and opportunities, but of course there are also a lot of financial and economic consequences. We, as politicians, must have an opinion on this. As a socialist, I do have a certain opinion on this, especially on the positive effect it can have on our financial institutions in order to break their power. But I would be interested, in addition to the WRR's report, to get those experiments out of the protective environment and also to see what that means in the outside world. If the Minister could discuss whether it would be possible to better understand its financial and economic consequences, that would be very good. Of course, I'd like to be informed about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u120	We have to be careful. I said I'd be happy to. Mr Alkaya says that he has already asked De Nederlandsche Bank himself. I do not yet know exactly what the answer of DNB has been, so I would like to ask the question and then understand what the answer of DNB was and why. The party political charge and the thought that we should do this to break the power of the financial sector... I quote: I do not say things that are my own opinion. That's not gonna be an assignment. In any case, there can be no question of an assignment, but I cannot imagine that this could or should be the intention of DNB. I really want to tear that apart. I want to ask the question. I would also like to understand the considerations of DNB. But the appreciation that comes from behind the question, I understand now from Mr Alkaya, I really want to leave it with him. He'll understand that from me, too. Mr Snels asked how I see today's debate in relation to PSD2. It is good to say that PSD2 is about new payment options and possibilities to use your bank account in a new way and about the concerns about the privacy and security of your personal data and bank data. This is about regular currencies and regular partly new financial institutions that are or will be supervised. PSD2 is not about cryptocurrency. However, PSD2 will make more possible in the areas of innovation, competition and fintech. Mr Ronnes asked another question about box 3 and the transfer of value to the Tax Administration, a very understandable question. As always, citizens themselves are responsible for a correct and complete declaration. If citizens have assets in cryptocurrency, they'll just have to give that up to the IRS. In that sense, cryptocurrency is no different than money in a bank account or a paper tenner in a sock, although it may be more easily visible on the bank account than that in that old sock or in that cryptolalet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u121	It is true what the Minister says, but the control on it is much more difficult. You can't figure out what assets are and the IRS can't double check. On the other hand, you have the transaction. If a tilemaker puts tiles in a house and is paid via cryptocurrency, you can't see VAT flows as a Tax Administration. It might be good to think about whether something can be found in the system so that you can do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u122	I can very much see that. I just want to pull two things apart. The fact that something is more difficult to find for the Tax Administration never relieves the taxpayer of the responsibility to make a proper declaration. I understand, particularly in the second instance, that Mr Ronnes is asking whether the Tax Office should study again how he can see more easily what is going on in those wallets. That's how I interpret his question. I believe that this is the attention of the Secretary of State, but I should also like to say this specifically to him. Mr. Chairman. Out of breath I think I arrived at the finish of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u123	Thank you, Minister. Then I'll look around and see if there's a need for a second term. It exists, so I give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66. You have a third of the first-term speaking time, so that is one minute and twenty seconds. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u124	Thank you, Mr President. It is very nice to see in such a debate that a lot of Members of Parliament can actually find each other very well, at least in view of the opportunities of this innovation, and that, of course, they see a certain degree of regulation and role of the government. I actually had three motions, but the Minister has come so close to the exact request I made about the key investor information that I will not submit. Thanks for that. Then there are the other two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Japan is at the forefront of the regulation of cryptocurrency and this market contributes 20% to its economic growth;]] [[believes that regulation can explore the potential of cryptocurrency, initial coin offerings, and underlying technology, while at the same time preventing abuse and crime;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine to what extent the Japanese Virtual Currency Act can be a model for Dutch regulation of cryptocurrency, and to share the outcome of this study with the Chamber in the fourth quarter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas companies in a healthy capital market have a mix of forms of financing;]] [[Whereas the issue of tokens, known as ICOs, may be a way for start-ups to raise additional capital for investment;]] [[Considers that attracting investment through the issuance of ICOs can contribute to entrepreneurship and innovation in start-ups struggling to obtain regular credit;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to regulate the acquisition of investment through the issuance of ICOs and thus to set out a framework within which companies and investors can safely exploit the potential of ICOs, while preventing abuse and crime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Van der Linde. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-191]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Van der Linde. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-192]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u125	Mr. Chairman. I think we'll agree on a lot of things tonight. Then it's all about blockchain technology. In any case, we do not want to make it impossible, no matter what we do with regulation. I would just like to highlight the differences that have arisen in this debate. The VVD believes that speculation is allowed, unwise spending is allowed and they can pay with your credit card too, for the simple reason that I decide what I do with my money. But what we don't want is that we're being deceived by malicious parties and there are enough around this new technology. For that we do not need new rules to our liking. We have rules that we can just use. Now I asked the Minister if he could make a few people available for that, but I actually hear the Minister say that those few officials are already working, namely together with the AFM and DNB. So if the minister nods, I'll take that as a yes. Then I really only have one specific question: when will it all be ready? That is, of course, one of those questions which the Minister does not want to hear, but with all the ambitious international approaches, we do not want to wait until the end of the day. After all, we have been waiting 391 years for the regulation of the trade in tulip bulbs. There never was. So I hope the Minister wants to make a little more haste in that regard. Can he be a little concrete about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u126	Thank you, Mr van der Linde. Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had already said that I was fairly satisfied with the cabinet's approach in the letter. I did have some additional questions. The Minister said that we are going to proceed with this crime, and I am going to send the Gaming Authority, in addition to the Public Prosecutor's Office that was already in the process, to see if we can still make a profit there. He charts German and French regulations. It may seem to go a little further on paper than it is in practice, but if we can learn from that, he will go into it and come back to the Chamber. So I do not need to make a motion on that, because the Minister is going to do so. And Minister Wiebes is going to see what energy consumption actually is. Maybe we should do something about that, too. That was my three main points. I've been given commitments on that and an answer that satisfies me, so I don't have any motions in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u128	Thank you very much, Mr Nijboer. Mr Ronnes of the CDA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u129	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the comprehensive answer given by the Minister in the first term. What has become clear this evening is that there is a lot of work to be done in order to achieve clear regulation, albeit with existing regulation on the one hand and regulation on the other, which we see is necessary and which we can set up later, and preferably in an international context. The point I would like to put an extra nuance in is that awareness and information to "the ordinary citizen" that is a little further away from the cryptocurrency. That is why I have the next motion, together with Mr Bruins. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas developments with cryptocurrency have progressed rapidly over the past year, with volatile rates, increasing market activity and increasing number of participants also in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas, because of the hype and large profits to be achieved, more and more individuals are investing in cryptocurrency, but the risks such as large losses are not widely known, with the risk of a new financial failure such as the Icesave scandal and the usury policies;]] [[calls on the government to consult with the regulators and consumer organisations (Consumenbond, Wijzer in Geld Zaken, et cetera) on how to raise consumer awareness of the opportunities and threats of cryptocurrency and to inform the Chamber about the results by the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-193]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u131	Thank you very much, Mr Ronnes. Mr. Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister indicated that he would like to mitigate the risks and encourage innovation. As regards the risks, I asked the question of the possibilities we have at national level in order to be able to take enforcement action. The Minister has actually only said that we are talking to AFM and DNB and I will come back to it in the autumn. I can't wait to see the results of those conversations. To be honest, I am also confident that we are on the same page. All parties share that we want to protect consumers best from risks. So we look forward to seeing what the Minister can do about it at national level. In the second part, i.e. stimulating innovation, I think the government plays a major role. I do not have a motion on this, but I would like a little more information on it. The Minister states that the experiments will continue, but at the same time he will discuss with De Nederlandsche Bank how these experiments will be continued. There is a technical aspect to what that cryptocurrency can do from the government and there are also financial and economic consequences. I mentioned two of them, namely the effect on where people can go with their savings. They can store their savings without debt and risk-free, and the effect on the public payments, because they can make payments to each other without the banks. I would like a more detailed analysis from the Minister. If that is not possible in the second term, I would like to have it in a later letter on the financial and economic consequences of a public digital currency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u133	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. Mr. Mulder from the PVV will waive a second term. Mr. Snels from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can be pretty short. I actually only have a correction to the Minister's words of praise in my first term. In fact, the essence of my argument was that you always see two laws within politics: we are lagging behind and we see the risks. That is actually what we see in the cabinet letter and I support that. But what happened? That cryptocurrency's been around for about ten years. Now we see the risks and we need to regulate very quickly. I would actually like to see this, and that is the strategic agenda. The possibilities of blockchain can become much more profound for society. This may be interesting for the government, but there may also be risks. We were also talking about energy consumption, for example. It is not so much a chant of praise, I say rather: try to get ahead this time as a government and not to set rules again very quickly afterwards. But I welcome the Minister's commitment that he will pass all this on to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy to include it in the digital agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u135	Thank you, Mr. Quick. It was the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. As the last speaker, Mr Azarkan has the floor. Mr Azarkan is speaking on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u136	Mr President, thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. In my first contribution I spoke about the Swiss model. I've spoken to a number of people who are active in cryptocurrency asset management. They were very charmed by that. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the blockchain technology is relatively new and that the regulatory framework for cryptocurrency has not yet been fully crystallised;]] [[believes that it is important that there is rapid clear and sound legislation regulating the cryptocurrency, and the issuance of new cryptocurrency;]] [[Whereas this could include other countries which are already further developed in the regulatory framework;]] [[Calls on the Minister to consider whether the Swiss model for the regulation of initial coin offerings in the Netherlands and the EU should be followed;]] [[also invites ministers to provide further information to the Chamber on the update in autumn 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-194]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u138	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. Then I'll suspend... You want to move on right away, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u139	If you don't mind, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u140	Yes, of course, of course. The Minister can answer immediately. Go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u141	Mr President, thank you. There are still a few short loose questions. I must begin by expressing my feeling of regret towards Mr Snels because my language caused a misunderstanding between him and me, which was not meant to be. Moreover, I very much agreed with what he said earlier. He cited a German professor. We have at least one such professor in the Netherlands who also conducts very sensible research in the field of risk society and the way in which we try to cover the most possible but also impossible risks, usually with a lot of money. The idea that we and certainly the government can free us from all these risks is an illusion. I just wanted to say that I very much agree with him. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Linde asked me: when will it be ready? The answer is, I think, a little disappointing, but this subject is probably never finished. 371 years ago, we had the tulip mania. That is, of course, a great comparison, but what I wanted to say is that my suspicion is that this technology and this discussion will require a lot of us all for a long time to come. I have said from the outset: let us bear in mind that we still have to adjust our course on this subject regularly, get new insights and so on, precisely because it concerns terra incognita. But, of course, I would like to say this in the direction of Mr Van der Linde: I think we all want to play a role in the vanguard, with different nuances. We also want speed to be achieved in Europe. It is also good to see that others in Europe, including us, are now able to push for it. We can see that ESMA has already taken steps, even after we sparked the discussion. So I'm going forward with a lot of energy. I would also like to inform the Chamber about this after the summer, in the autumn, because Mr Van der Linde knows that I am generally impatient. This is also true in this area. We'll find out if he's even more impatient than I am. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered the questions that have remained. Oh, no, there's one more thing. Mr Alkaya had not tabled a motion, but I wanted to say to him the following in response to his second point, which was about innovation and the digital currency. He wondered what the financial and economic advantages and disadvantages were. That's a fair question. In order to provide a sound answer, we will need a little more time. I can't quite oversee that. It may well be that this also goes along with all the answers we have for the Chamber in the autumn. Moreover, we may well indicate a number of first directions, but this also means that we need to do a lot more research before we can give a definitive piece of it. But I'm willing to look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u142	Mr. Alkaya? No? That's the way it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u143	I see that I have made Mr Alkaya very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u144	That's always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u145	Mr President, I shall now turn to the motions for resolutions. That's pretty simple. The first motion, in part No. 191, I'd like to leave judgment room. Mr Paternotte spoke of the fourth quarter. I hope that works. Maybe I can even do it in the autumn, which starts earlier than the fourth quarter. The second motion, in part No. 192, I would also like to leave judgment Chamber, like the third, in section No. 193 by Mr Ronnes. For the fourth motion, in part No. The same applies to Mr Azarkan. If you've spent almost every hour here since yesterday afternoon at 4:00 p.m., you're getting smoother and smoother, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u146	Then we'll have to call you to the Chamber more often, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u147	No, I was trying to do the opposite, Mr President, but you know that I always come here when I am required to do so and that it is a great pleasure for me to discuss these important issues with Members. So thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u148	Thank you. Then this interesting debate has ended. I thank the participants in the debate, and I thank the people who have followed the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u149	The motions will be put to the vote on Tuesday 22 May.
