ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut, on behalf of the SP, for her questions to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I would like to welcome the Minister. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation will replace the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Mrs Karabulut's questions concern the arrest of a Dutchman and the forthcoming demolition of Khan al-Ahmar in Palestine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u2	The Dutchman appears to be a Brit now, but that doesn't matter very much. Mr. Chairman. Israel is about to commit yet another war crime. This time in Khan al-Ahmar, a Bedouin village in occupied Palestinian territory about to be demolished. And when that happens, the population will be deported. Last summer, I was Khan al-Ahmar. Eid Khamisjahaun, the head of the village, and other residents also made it clear to me the strategic importance of this and other Bedouin villages in that area. This has to do with the fact that it lies in the so-called E1 area, which Israel wants to use for even more illegal settlements. If this happens, a Palestinian state, self-determination for the Palestinians and the two-state solution will be de facto overturned, because it can split the West Bank in two. That is exactly what Israel, the politically responsible, is trying to do. So Israeli bulldozers try to reach this village to demolish it, residents strongly oppose this aggression and according to the latest reports, injured people and protesters have been arrested. Yesterday there was even the message that a Dutchman would have been arrested. Turns out that's a Brit. Mr President, I know that the Netherlands, together with other EU countries, has also made a firm statement and sent a clear message that demolition and deportation must not be allowed to continue. But words aren't enough. It is very important that the Minister's clear words should also be followed by action. The United States and the EU have also made it very clear in the past that it should not be built in the E1 area. For many, this is a red line. My question to the Minister is: is this also a red line for you and are you prepared to summon the Israeli ambassador?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mrs Karabulut has indeed highlighted a sensitive and important issue. It is of course the case that the Netherlands has systematically condemned the demolition and confiscation of Palestinian assets in Area C.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It has also described how indeed the Netherlands and the EU at all levels have regularly urged the High Representative..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is also about a school, which is of course extremely important for the children who had access to education and training. We continue to convey these messages strongly to the Israeli authorities. We also believe that Palestinian development in this area contributes to a climate in which peace can stand a chance. Sloop would run counter to support for peace and undermine the confidence that allows negotiations and peace. We are in constant consultation. A number of steps have already been taken, as I said, in the diplomatic process. At this stage there is a threat of demolition, there are still contacts going on. Mrs Karabulut asks if there is a red line and asks if that red line will be translated into an invitation to the Israeli ambassador to Minister Blok, my colleague. I cannot make any commitments on this at the moment because the situation has not yet occurred. What I can confirm is that this situation and others, of course, are taken very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr President, I told you. When I was there, not only did I hear the stories, I did not only see the children and the school, the bulldozers were literally at the door. And when we wanted to leave the area, back to our hotel, it was blocked and we had to get away by detours. I know, the Minister condemns it. There are clear explanations, but those bulldozers tried very cruelly yesterday to reach that village. It is thanks to resistance and international solidarity that this has not yet happened. But the point is likely to be reached that it will. I just want one clear statement from this minister. If that happens, which is what everything really points to, is that a red line for the minister and what will the Netherlands and the European community do? For 50 years there has been illegal settlements, annexation, limitless injustice. And over and over and over again, Israel, the politically responsible, gets away with these war crimes. Amnesty International also talks about serious war crimes. So I would like to know again from the Minister: is this a red line, as has been said in the past by several parties in this Chamber? And then she's gonna take action? I believe that the Israeli ambassador should already be summoned, because there is a danger of demolition, and residents with their lives must defend their own land, their own homes, their own schools. How much injustice do you want to take action?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u6	I want to name two things. On the one hand, the Netherlands will continue to confirm at EU level and bilaterally that there are obligations for Israel as an occupying force. There is a duty of care and according to the right of occupation there are other obligations. In accordance with the Geneva Convention, for example, an occupying power cannot gain or destroy movable or immovable property. The only exception, as we know, is cases where military operations make such destruction absolutely necessary. It is up to Israel to demonstrate that there is such an exception in a specific case. The reason given to Khan al-Ahmar is, as you also know, that no permit has been issued. In most cases no licence is issued either. This has to do with the complexity but also, of course, with the status of area C. Since the diplomatic process is still ongoing, I do not want to say in advance that this is the red line. I would also like to leave room for my colleague, Mr Blok, to make that assessment. I can assure you that the entire cabinet takes all these incidents very seriously. There have been very clear statements from the High Representative at EU level and from others. So should there be destruction, consultations within the EU will take place at an accelerated pace in order to ideally achieve a common position. It seems very relevant to me to work together in this and to continue to speak with one voice in order to give a signal of how we look at the whole situation and what our hopes and expectations are for the final peace process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u8	I do not know of any other country which has so many violations of international law and which is being treated by the international community with such velvet gloves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr President, my final point. In the vicinity of that village are illegal settlements where members of the Knesset live. They want to expand that. My final question to the minister would be...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u11	No, you really need to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u12	When this happens, will the Netherlands plead for sanctions at EU level?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u13	I think the question has changed now. I have answered the question as to what the possible position, thought or approach at diplomatic level will be of the Netherlands at EU level with regard to a possible destruction in Khan al-Ahmar. I've confirmed that. In terms of sanctions, it's a whole different story. There is a very different legal framework. I absolutely do not want to make a statement on this at this time. I don't think this is the issue here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u15	In this situation there was a flood that could potentially cause nuisance and danger. The bulldozers were used against that. I have here the pictures of bulldozers standing in the water. Those bulldozers had to fight that flood. Does the Minister agree with me that the Israeli government, which is competent on the ground, is obliged to act against such a flood in such situations, with bulldozers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u16	I don't know the pictures and I don't know the specific case. As I mentioned, there is always a duty of care in accordance with the Geneva Convention. I do not know whether Mr De Roon means that this falls within the scope of duty of care. I don't know about the incident, so I'd like to be very careful about making a statement about it. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u17	I have a second question, Mr President. If there is indeed a situation in which there is a duty of care, the Minister does not know that yet, but let us assume that for a moment, the Minister agrees with me that, if there is obstruction by demonstrators, the government also has an obligation to remove and, if necessary, hold those demonstrators, in order to ensure that the activities resulting from the duty of care can take place unhindered?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u18	I understand the suggestion and the intention. The question was about Khan al-Ahmar and the legitimacy of destruction and what possible diplomatic steps would be. Specific interventions to safeguard, for example, the population in the context of the duty of care of an occupying power in accordance with the Geneva Convention, I can imagine a great deal of that. I don't know if it's another frame. But it would be very careless for me to participate in speculation without independent factual knowledge. I would like to take the information from Mr De Roon to me. Then I can come back to that at another time. But right now, I don't think it's right to make a statement about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u19	I had not heard the explanation given by Mr De Roon in terms of Israel's duty of care. So that's how you raise things every day. My question to the Minister is actually about something she said in her reply to Mrs Karabulut. She said: there is still consultation with Israel. Now my great fear, based on the past, is that Israel does not care, just to say it in home-garden and kitchen language.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u20	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u21	My question is: what exactly is this consultation about, and what does Israel actually bring into that discussion? What do they say or what do they ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you to Mr Van Ojik for his question. When I say "consultation," I mean diplomatic channels, the regular contacts they have. There is no specific consultation on this. There are regular talks at all levels, in Jerusalem in this case as well. As far as we have heard, the response at this point in time is to implement, as the Israeli interpretation is, a decision by the Supreme Court that residents cannot prove that this is a privately owned country. Then Israel pointed out to the inhabitants two alternative places of residence. The problem with that seems to lie in that one of those places is next to a sewage treatment plant and the other one is next to a garbage dump. The residents did not accept this offer. However, the court did not decide that the school should be demolished, but that the Israeli authorities would have to demolish it. Chancellor Merkel also mentioned this in her last German-Israeli government consultations. In this kind of diplomatic conversation one tries to point out that there is still a choice to offer other grounds for rebuilding a school and to offer that other land to the inhabitants of Khan al-Ahmar. That hasn't happened so far. So the commitment is of course also to come up with an alternative, acceptable solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u23	If Mr De Roon thinks bulldozers can stop floods, I hope that the Israelis will learn from us about how to manage water. That seems very complicated to me. About that Khan al-Ahmar and about E1: that is of course a red line that has actually been confirmed in the Chamber up to and including the VVD. My question to this minister would be: does this cabinet have an example in which the State of Israel has really listened to the advice of its allies, whether it is the Netherlands or the European Union, and has not undertaken the destruction of Palestinian goods or the construction of settlements? 'Cause I don't really have those examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u24	That question is being asked quite widely. I should then go back to a number of possible decisions, non-decisions and alternative decisions. It's a broad question. I could possibly take this question with my colleague, Mr Blok, because the answer requires some research, also in order to give a well-balanced factually substantiated opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u25	Then the Chamber will be informed in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u26	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you.
