ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the European Summit on 22 and 23 March 2018. I welcome the Prime Minister in Box K and give the floor to Mr Van Ojik as the first speaker, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can say that we are discussing an overcrowded and interesting agenda today. As is often the case, it is not very easy to see exactly what decisions will be taken if the Prime Minister joins his colleagues. In any case, the conclusions on the internal market, social policy and trade are on the agenda, but what exactly is in those conclusions? Is it really not possible to say a little more about this in the annotated agenda? That is my first question to the Prime Minister. I find it rather difficult to draw up from such an annotated agenda what the decision-making process in Brussels is about. A separate euro summit will also be held. I would almost say that we are talking about EMU, of course, but it is also unclear which aspects are covered, as we read in the annotated agenda. A discussion note has been kept confidential, but although of course I do not want to violate the confidentiality of this note, I do wonder why a piece that is so little and so thin should remain confidential at all. The same applies to the confidential note on taxes. I honestly don't understand. There is no way I can read anything there that I think not everyone can think of. Those may be some general questions. I hope the Prime Minister will respond to that. I've been talking about taxes for a while. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is in favour of a tax on tecrushing. Google and Facebook place advertisements on a very large scale on the European market. In my group's view, this should also be the subject of taxation in the EU. The cabinet, as we read, prefers a global solution in the context of the OECD or the G20. That's gonna be very easy to postpone. This will take a lot of time and will lead very easily to endless discussions in these forums. I therefore call on the Prime Minister to convert to the need for fair taxation at the European Council and to agree on it in the EU. I understand that there will be a communication from the European Commission tomorrow. Then we'll be working on other things, but I'm sure he won't. Then he can react promptly and promptly to that communication, I hope in a positive way. Madam President. Completement, also known as further deepening the internal market, is at the top of the cabinet's wish list. I therefore assume that the Prime Minister will live to this summit. He always does, but I'm sure he's doing a little more now. But what does "floor and perfection" actually mean in practice? The internal market has two sides. The internal market increases the freedom of consumers, workers and entrepreneurs. We can buy products and services throughout the European Union, we can work anywhere and we can do business in all Member States. But the downside is that the internal market gives more uncertainty and more competition, not only in terms of efficiency, commitment and good ideas, but also in terms of working conditions, safety standards, animal welfare or environmental concerns. That is why, according to GroenLinks, the completion of the internal market should primarily mean that it becomes fairer and more social. On the contrary, market forces should be reduced in a number of respects, not more. One example of this is the obligation to tender, which, for example, applies in the care sector, which leads to competition on prices, which reduces quality and increases workload. My group has recently tabled an own-initiative proposal for this. It would be better if municipalities themselves could decide how to organise the procurement of care. As far as I am concerned, if this obligation to tender is the completion of the internal market, there is no need to do so. That is why I ask the Prime Minister to ensure that municipalities are excluded from the public procurement obligation and that those exceptions to the internal market are also included in the Council conclusions, the content of which we do not know, but which will apparently be adopted at the forthcoming Euro Summit. Mr. Chairman. There are many topics to choose from. A few words about Turkey, because we are also talking about the likely EU-Turkey summit. My first question to the Minister is whether it is really certain that the EU-Turkey Summit will continue. Or is that still dependent on final decision-making that still has to take place? Assuming the summit continues, there is plenty to discuss. Turkey has taken Afrin. This has just been the subject of a debate with Minister Blok in oral Question Time. They say the city has been taken temporarily, but I have no idea what this means and when and to whom control of the city is transferred. In the war in Syria, humanitarian war law is being trampled on from all sides. The Turkish army is accused of serious war crimes. Will the EU in Varna state that the summit will continue to propose, for example, to send neutral observers to Afrin to observe how the occupying forces deal with the population? Mr. Chairman. Another topic to discuss with Turkey is, of course, the Turkey deal. It was closed two years ago. Now Turkey is again asking for 3 billion. We must recognise that the country, to which we are quite rightly criticised for many reasons, with the reception of more than 3 million Syrian refugees, is delivering a significant achievement. But what does the deal mean for the refugees themselves? Can people who have to flee the war still leave Syria? What is the fate of the more than 3 million Syrian refugees staying in Turkey? UNICEF pointed out a few weeks ago that almost 400,000 Syrian children must carry out child labour. And what about the thousands trapped on the Greek islands? I saw that with my own eyes a few weeks ago. I was there with my colleague Jasper van Dijk and I can tell you that this does not look good. That is why I ask the Prime Minister whether we should not review the Turkey deal critically before we enter the third year and perhaps transfer another 3 billion to Turkey. I can see that I have half a minute's speaking time, so I would like to ask a few short questions. There is no doubt that the Skripal case is being discussed. The British will appeal to the solidarity of the EU partners. Is that gonna happen? Will the Prime Minister state his support at the summit and join with sanctions taken by the UK, for example against people suspected of being involved in the organisation of this attack and whose assets are frozen? Finally, the Brexit. Yesterday it was great news that an agreement was reached. As far as I can see, that is worthy of congratulations, but what exactly is the scope of the agreement reached yesterday? Does it still differ from what was agreed in December, for example, on certain points? My last, obvious question is: how is the issue of the Irish border, on which no agreement has been reached yesterday? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I agree with Mr Van Ojik's last point. Yesterday we heard that an interim agreement was reached between the EU and the UK on a transitional period. In itself that is good news, but there are still some open ends. Mr Van Ojik has already mentioned the border between Northern Ireland and Ireland, but we have heard that European air traffic rights and cooperation within Europol are still very important in the context of our security policy. How does the Prime Minister feel about that? What are the consequences? What direction is needed? What is the role of the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. In the context of Brexit, we have read that Unilever will establish its headquarters in Rotterdam and close the door in London. In the newspaper we could read that a prayer book was made for Unilever and that it already states that the dividend tax is abolished, even before it was discussed with the Chamber, let alone that there was a ruling from the Chamber. A gift of 1.4 billion for multinationals is just being messed around. That is why I have a number of questions for the Prime Minister. One. Is what's in the paper true? Two. If there's a prayer book, on whose initiative and under whose instructions was that book made? Where's the prayer book? Will the Prime Minister send that to the House of Commons? Why, in an adult democracy like ours, does Unilever know the contents of that prayer book, but not the parliament? We've heard there's gonna be zero jobs. The abolition of the dividend tax costs 1.4 billion. Sounds like a bad deal to me. I'm not used to that from this Prime Minister, by the way, but this is a really bad deal. Why does the cabinet persist in this, even if SMEs deserve support and they do not, in their own words, get it? Then to the taxes on the tech giants. Colleague Van Ojik already talked about it: Google, Facebook, Amazon and Apple are all household names. They are dominant in the market and very profitable, but they pay little tax, especially in Europe. The OECD consultations are at an impasse. A European initiative is therefore urgently needed. It is discussed on Thursday, partly at the request of Germany and France and despite the opposition of Luxembourg and Ireland. What kind of camp does the Prime Minister consider himself to be, the German-French camp that makes a very nice call here to pay decent taxes or the opponents Luxembourg and Ireland? I'd like to hear the Prime Minister's opinion on that. Then, Mr President, equal pay for equal work is very important for a well-functioning European Union and a huge step forward. Thanks to the Prime Minister and his people. The Detachment Directive has been adopted, but we must now, of course, implement it. The EU is dependent on national inspection services and in many Member States it is still inadequate. The Prime Minister remains rather vague in the annotated agenda when it comes to concrete measures to promote cross-border cooperation in this area. What does he want to happen in concrete terms? How's he gonna do that? In what way will he inform us about this, even in line with the Ploumen/Asscher motion, which I believe was adopted in December? Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Ojik already talked about it: the events in the UK, namely the attack on a former Russian spy and his daughter. According to the British, everything points to the Russians. Putin himself would have given the order, says the British Foreign Minister. To what extent does the Netherlands have information about this attack? How do we assist the British, both in the investigation and in any subsequent steps, because an attack with nerve gas cannot remain without consequences? Mr Van Ojik and earlier colleague Karabulut spoke about Afrin and the terrible events there. The UN wants humanitarian access. This seems to me to be an excellent thing that should be borne by the leaders of the European Union. Is the Prime Minister going to address this and how is he going to get others to put themselves behind it? Finally, Mr President. Last Thursday, a motion was adopted from my hand, also handwritten, addressed to Minister Blok, but I also put the question to the Prime Minister, because the subject is important enough. Freedom of the press is under pressure in the world, but unfortunately also in Europe. We have even seen journalists murdered in the European Union over the last few months. It is undoubtedly a difficult subject to address, but it is a subject that I believe should also be discussed between European leaders. It is about freedom of the press, an essential value of the European Union that we must uphold and protect together. If we do not do so, it seems to me that this part of the Union's values is going to be bankrupt. So I'd like a response from the Prime Minister on how he's going to make a commitment to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. There he was, the Prime Minister's long-awaited vision. From Berlin, he briefly explained what he wanted with the European Union. A deal is a deal: no more money to Brussels and no more power. These seem to be clear boundaries, but he does want the internal market to be strengthened and completed. It is based on a digital union, and right here is the black hole in Rutte's vision of the European Union. No more power to Brussels and a full internal market, that is a contradiction. In a full internal market for people, capital, goods and services, there is a great deal of control from local and national to Brussels. Through the internal market, services are created against fake news which, in any case, must approve messages from the Member States. Or take the Capital Markets Union, which is about a European pension system and advocates harmonisation. That's where we're gonna retire. Or take the digital market. It's about taxes for tech giants. And yes: here comes Juncker's big wish for his own treasury. From the European Commission, proposals come to us with speed trains, and they always have one taste: Brussels is the solution to all problems. Less tasks for the Member States, but certainly less participation in competences. That our Prime Minister's answer is that it is primacy to the Member States is justified, but if he then says that the European Union is primarily the internal market, then Juncker is of course on the banks. Precisely that single market is the red carpet on which we give control to Brussels. We are giving them away to a European Commission that brings friends and yesmen into the saddle with flash names. A European Commission that is powerless to tackle corruption in many countries. Somehow that's not so crazy. It wants to keep everyone friendly, so one angry grunt to Poland, but then spawn again, because the European Commission needs support in those Member States. There is corruption in the Czech Republic, where even a investigative journalist was murdered. There is corruption in Bulgaria and Romania, and unfortunately the list is not complete. We have major problems with the rule of law in Poland. How does the Prime Minister view the view that on the one hand we have a hyperactive European Commission, which says that there must be a European solution for everything, and on the other hand Member States that can take a walk with the law and the money? Do Juncker and Timmermans even know what our priorities are? What's the Prime Minister gonna do? Is he going to shake hands at the summit, perhaps with a view to the Presidency of the European Council in a year and a half? Or is he going to make a deal, that's the Dutch vision and we set limits? At the upcoming summit, it's also about something new. A European labour authority must be set up to identify where work is in Europe, to draw people's attention to it, as a kind of temporary agency, a bizarre task. It must also ensure that European rules are enforced in the Member States. But enforcement is a competence at national level, isn't it? Isn't this new agency just more power to Brussels? A new agency to appoint a boyfriend? Does the Prime Minister agree with the SP that this labour inspection and temp agency should not be there? Is he going to pass that on on behalf of the Netherlands on Thursday and Friday? My colleague from GroenLinks Van Ojik has already mentioned this: a lot of things are discussed at the summit where it is not clear what the commitment of the Netherlands is. We get secret pieces that we can read, but we can't talk about. It is sad, however, that so much decision-making is not public and that we should not even talk about tax proposals, on which we might like to consult experts and want to know exactly what is on the table. Should citizens not have an opinion on European taxes? How does this relate to a prime minister who says "there are limits to Europe, the primacy lies with the Member State" and who can then give away everything on behalf of the Netherlands in secret, secret backrooms. I have one more question about the Brexit agreement. It will be very exciting where the border of Europe, the European Union, lies: on the Irish island or in the sea. There is no agreement at this point, but time has been bought. And precisely at that time, during that transitional period, the United Kingdom is still covered by the internal market. That is good for trade and all of it, but at the same time it is allowed to conclude trade agreements with other countries during that period. That makes sense, because it goes on alone. But in those years and a half, through these trade agreements, can access the European market again? I think we need to focus on that. The European Union faces many challenges. A lot of files go into fast-track traffic, but there's also files stuck. Take Turkey's accession. The billions that Turkey has received before accession are not being properly spent; we have received a destructive Court of Auditors report. We have asked questions about this, but unfortunately we have not seen any answers before this debate. Now there will be a new summit, but what is on the agenda? Then what's being arranged there? How can we assume that the Prime Minister will ensure that accession aid is no longer granted to Turkey, as the Chamber wishes, and that if it continues to do so, at least it will not go to the government in Turkey? Mr. Chairman. And then Wednesday night, tomorrow night, our Prime Minister receives the French President, Macron. He even comes here; what an honor! But what's being discussed there? It would be interesting, of course, to hear what is happening there, whether or not in a room. A conversation between a federalist and a critic. But is this prime minister the critic as he presented himself at the end of February? As I have already said, the Prime Minister says that there are limits to the transfer of power to Brussels. At the same time, it is for a boundless, free market. That's the Prime Minister's black hole. I wouldn't be surprised if he agreed with the French President tomorrow night.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr President, thank you. These are still interesting times for the European Union. Many eyes were on Brussels yesterday when an agreement was reached on the transition period after the Brexit. This while external challenges such as Russia and Trumps import tariffs, of course, also call for attention. Colleagues have already talked about it. I will therefore focus on these issues today. Then I will also say something about the freedom of the press in Europe. Visions and views are of course preserved traditionally for next Monday. During the State of the Union, we are again discussing the issue of Europe, and our colleagues from the European Parliament will be there. I am certainly looking forward to it, but I am also looking forward to the debate in the near future. I'll start with the Brexit. First, the exit agreement and the transition deal. D66 welcomes the deal that was made yesterday. It provides security for people and, in particular, provides security for business. Over the next two years, until December 2020, the relationship between the United Kingdom and the Union will remain more or less the same. D66 is particularly satisfied in the area of civil rights. A Dutchman who now lives in the UK, whether he moves there at the end of 2019 or before, is allowed to stay and work there. For the 4 million people affected by the Brexit, that is very good news. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister to the deal. Will he welcome them to the European Summit? It is also positive that a backstop has been created in relation to the problematic border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. One would almost say that this is the political piece of the first agreements, in which everyone naturally wonders what it is really going to be like and which of the two or three parties is actually going to turn in something in relation to the current situation. If there is no other solution to this border between Ireland and Northern Ireland, then the border will be in the Irish Sea and Northern Ireland will continue to comply with European rules. How does the Prime Minister feel about this? Is he satisfied with this? What solution does he really see in front of him? Then the future relationship. The European Council and British Prime Minister May seem to be stuck in relation to the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union. That's problematic. It remains unclear, even for Dutch companies, where we are after the Brexit. In the meantime, the European Parliament has presented an interim solution. The resolution favours an association agreement. That is actually a kind of free trade agreement plus, which is normally used for relations with neighbouring countries. What is the Prime Minister's response to this proposal from the European Parliament? Mr President, then there is the import levies on steel and aluminium announced by President Trump. They'll be discussed tomorrow, too. They are measures with which he may unleash the most dangerous trade war in recent history, they are measures that I cannot classify as purely protectionism. D66 has often warned that protectionism is detrimental to free trade and employment, as well as to our prosperity, which we owe to our open economy. This protectionist measure harms the Dutch steel industry in particular. Minister Kaag, who was temporary Foreign Minister, said earlier that the Netherlands, together with Brussels, is ready to take any counter measures. I hope that won't be necessary. It is good to see that Commissioner Malmström defends the European interests and therefore the Dutch interests with great care. In doing so, the European Union is proving its added value by acting as one big trading bloc. If we had to do this alone as the Netherlands, it would have been a different game. It shows that it really has a lot of added value to raise here strong, as one big block and also the largest trading block in the world. It must also be clear to Trump that we are not the enemy. We are not dumping steel on the American market, we are producing crucial parts here for the automotive and aircraft industry in the United States. It's just a shared problem between the US and Europe. The EU should therefore also be excluded from all kinds of protectionist measures. I ask the Prime Minister: what is his commitment? How are we going to prevent it from escalating and a trade war from breaking out? Will the Heads of Government come up with a joint statement to make it clear to Trump that his reckless plans not only affect his own allies, but also, perhaps, himself in the first place? Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to the situation in Salisbury. Donald Tusk announced this week that he would also like to discuss the nerve gas attack that took place there at the European summit. D66 has already stated that with Putin's re-election last Sunday, Russia remains a real threat to the stability of the West, not only by spreading fake news and disinformation, but also simply by disabling opponents without pardon through nerve gas on the territory of other countries. Prime Minister May was clear: the Russians are behind this. Last week, therefore, she also took action. Unfortunately, our Foreign Minister's reaction was a lot less decisive. Yes, he shows solidarity with the British and condemns the attack, but he does not mention the virtually undisputed perpetrator, Russia. This while France, Germany, the United States and the United Kingdom have signed together a statement in which they hold Russia responsible for this chemical attack. Is the Prime Minister going to put himself behind this statement at the top? Mr. Chairman. The European summit will also discuss European asylum policy. It is very important for D66 for the EU to set up an asylum system that works, that respects the refugee treaty and that the refugees are distributed fairly across all Member States. In the meantime, the decision on the new Dublin Regulation has been in place for more than two years. Member States don't seem to be getting out of it. Last time, I also mentioned the way in which sometimes, in the Council, divisions can lead to an image of Europe that does not come out, but that is really happening here. Does the Prime Minister agree with D66 that every effort must be made to continue to speed up as much as possible? Can the Prime Minister explain the status of the negotiations in the Council? What is the Dutch position when it comes to the three-phase approach, a different policy for different numbers of incoming refugees? I should like to make my final point, Mr President. As I have already announced, this concerns freedom of the press. A few weeks ago, investigative journalist Jan Kuciak and his fiancée were murdered in their home in Bratislava. Kuciak investigated corruption and abuse of EU funds in Slovakia. Unfortunately, this is not an isolated incident, because last October a Maltese investigative journalist was murdered after she wrote about corruption in her country. This week, D66 organized a hearing on the threat of journalists in the Netherlands, which unfortunately also happens, and also in serious forms. Independent journalism is an essential condition for a modern and strong democracy, here but also in Slovakia and Malta. Does the Prime Minister see opportunities to challenge the importance of independent journalism in Brussels and, if so, how does he intend to do so? Mr President, I shall leave it at that, also with regard to time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you. Mrs. Leijten has another question for you, Mr. Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u10	What does D66 think about a European labour inspectorate and a temporary agency?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u11	A European temp agency? Mrs Leijten and I sometimes have misunderstandings because Mrs Leijten sometimes uses certain terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u12	Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u13	Political frames, phrases, metaphors, symbols. It has a rich language when it comes to the European Union. She sometimes talks about fairs, now about temp agencies. That's very nice. However, I sometimes do not understand her and I therefore think that I should ask your permission, Mr President, to ask Mrs Leijten what she really means.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u14	Then I don't count that as an interruption. You can explain exactly what you mean, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u15	Mr. Chairman. The word 'carnival' had just been put in my mouth by Mr Verhoeven. That didn't even come from my rich vocabulary, although I do know what that means. And it's the nail on the head when it comes to Brussels scenes, sometimes. The European Employment Agency is on the agenda. "ELA' is referred to by an abbreviation. There is often spoken in abbreviations, of course to make it a little mysterious. In any case, it is up to the people of Europe to point out where there is employment. It's some kind of temporary agency function. It must ensure that European countries maintain their rules when it comes to the labour market. That's an inspection task. I wonder what D66 thinks of the European Commission's view that this should be a European task?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u16	Is the question clear, Mr Verhoeven?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u17	Oh, yeah. This is really helping. D66, as I have often argued, for a Europe, a European Union, I must say that, at least, some people who have been discussing with me sometimes want to focus on key issues, on key priorities. I found Prime Minister Rutte's speech in Berlin two or three weeks ago very strong on that point. I believe that the Prime Minister has expressed very clearly on this point, even on behalf of D66, how we should look at the European Union. Compliments for that. There were also lesser pieces in that speech; that goes without saying. However, I believe that the focus should be on security, border control, migration, proper organisation of refugee reception, raising the internal market together in the world as one block and thus enforcing certain good standards that allow us to export well and earn money, climate change. Then I think that labour inspection over the backs of national inspections sounds like something I think: I can imagine, because many of the problems in the field of fair work for everyone are aimed at the fact that rules are not being complied with. So I don't think it's the wrong idea in itself, but I wouldn't put it as a priority right away. I think we should be careful not to regulate everything at European level, because then we will no longer be able to deal with the important issues properly at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u18	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u19	This is actually a bit of an advance on my story next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u20	It's on top. It's about an agency that should be in operation by next year, which is going to cost 50 million. I don't even care about that much. I am particularly concerned that we simply have our own labour inspectorate and that if things are not going well in other countries, we may be able to help build it but it will not be a European agency. But I got an answer. D66 is not in favour of this, and I therefore assume that if the Prime Minister does not accept my appeal to oppose that agency on behalf of the Netherlands, you will support my motion to allow the Prime Minister to adopt that attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u21	I wouldn't be too sure about that, Mrs Leijten. You might want to exaggerate your input. Then you would like to summarize the nuanced words of others briefly and try to cast them into a motion. And I guess I'll just have to vote for that. We're gonna watch it quietly. I've indicated that I don't think it's a top priority. I didn't say we're not gonna support it. I assume that the Dutch Labour Inspectorate and the labour inspections of the other 27 Member States can also continue to do their job properly. So we'll definitely look into it and I'll get back to that. But to put it right, we have to be against it...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u22	I find it a little uncomfortable that D66 actually says in a very long answer that it is not a core task and that it then says: we are not going to support a motion. This proposal, which Mr Verhoeven apparently does not know what it is, is clearly described in the documents. It's very concrete. It will have three main tasks, it will have to be operational next year and 50 million will be earmarked for it. So next weekend there is the chance to say like the Netherlands: we are not waiting for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u23	Fair enough, I'd almost like to say in my almost natural language, my second language English. In the second term, I will return in a short, clear and business manner to the precise position of D66 on this labour inspection at European level. I fully admit that I was not exactly aware of these plans. I am very grateful to Mrs Leijten for pointing this out to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u24	He can put Renske Leijten in her pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u25	Yeah, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u26	I have a question, because I was somewhat challenged by Mr Verhoeven. What were the elements you didn't agree with in the Prime Minister's contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u27	It is very hard shooting under the coalition bands, but I can give you one example. That is also something I will come back to a little more in detail next week. There was one internal inconsistency or one internal abrasive part in the Prime Minister's speech. On the one hand, he is very keen on national sovereignty. He is constantly saying that the Member States are leading, while on other points he is expressing very strongly that he wants European solutions to major problems. That's what's been wringing for years. I think we should make a choice. I think that sometimes we need to say something more emphatically: here we dare to establish a European competence and not here. I thought the Prime Minister could have gotten ahead of that a little bit further. Anyway, before that, he's in a coalition with D66. That's what I can talk to him about. Other than that, I think it was a good, balanced speech. I will read it again, because it inspires me every time the Prime Minister gives his vision of Europe. That's a highlight for me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u28	I am curious to see the vision of the balance between national sovereignty and what we are transferring to Europe. What's D66's vision on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u29	Well, it's nice you asked. I will reply briefly to that. D66 dares to transfer sovereignty on important major cross-border tasks and to opt for a European sovereignty in the world. Absolutely. We are very clear about that. For example, we think that the European Public Prosecutor's Office is a good idea. Border surveillance in the hands of the European Commission, so that it is properly organised at external border level, is a good idea. We think that some of the European Commission's powers in relation to the climate approach should be strengthened. We dare to say that in this Chamber. We are one of the few parties that are clear about this to the electorate. Vote tomorrow, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u30	I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The annotated agenda said that it was about the European Labour Authority, which also has 145 employees, I say to Mr Verhoeven. Mr. Chairman. The agenda for next week's European Council includes a large number of important issues, but because of the time my group confines itself to two specific issues: relations with Turkey and the Brexit. We are also focusing on a more general theme: the European Union's increasing influence on matters where we do not think that increasing influence should be addressed. First the Brexit. Yesterday we were surprised by the communication that the European Union and the United Kingdom have reached an agreement on a number of important points, including the transitional period. That's good news. We would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he expects, on the basis of this agreement, that we have now reached the stage of an irreversible process. Can we now assume, according to the Prime Minister, that both parties will reach a comprehensive agreement this autumn, so that we do not have to deal with a hard Brexit? Barnier spoke yesterday about "une étape décisive," a decisive step. But he added: we are not yet at the finish line. There are still some major problems, including Northern Ireland. And nothing's agreed until everything's agreed. Mr. Chairman. In his speech in Berlin on 2 March, the Prime Minister said a number of things that appeal to 50PLUS, such as the sentence: what the European Union is not to me is a train that inevitably travels to a federal final destination. And a second sentence: I firmly believe that a federal end goal as an inevitable historic march is not what it is like and not what it should be like in the 21st century. These are texts that appeal to 50PLUS. But then I read the annotated agenda for next week's summit and I think: no, anyway, here we go again. That train the Prime Minister was talking about, it's going through. On 17 November last year, there was a summit in Gothenburg on social policy which was specifically called "informal." But this informal summit will lead to concrete steps towards a European social policy next week. It all seems innocent, a social pillar based on best practices. But anyone who reads between the lines can only conclude that the European Commission wants to increase its influence on social policy in the Member States, on the labour market, on social security, and if we are not careful about our pension system, with another agency I have just spoken about the European Labour Authority, which starts with 140 employees and will undoubtedly do everything in its power to increase its grip on the social policies of the Member States. Does the Prime Minister want to respond to that? Of course, there are reasons to cooperate more in the social field, but we want the Prime Minister to assure us that he is committed to limiting the scope and content of this cooperation to what is necessary to protect the position of workers. What my group is even more concerned about is the structural way in which we are moving towards further enlargement of the EU to include countries in the Western Balkans. The meeting on 17 May on this area should not be called a 'enlargement summit', but these talks are only aimed at one thing: accession to the European Union. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, that train also comes to a standstill. For the time being, further enlargement of the European Union is not a priority for us at all. First, internal order, in particular by fulfilling the commitments made, for example when it comes to deepening economic and monetary union. Can the Prime Minister confirm the reports that Germany has responded positively to the commitments made by the Netherlands with seven other Member States, including EMU? Can the Prime Minister elaborate on the background and content of these agreements? Mr. Chairman. Then Turkey. The situation in Northern Syria is escalating. In Afrin Turkish flags are now waving in a Syrian city, and the Turks are continuing their advance. In the debate on Syria last week, the Chamber made a few clear statements by means of motions. In the annotated agenda, we read that the cabinet should urge the EU to address Turkey firmly in accordance with the Voordewind motion for a resolution on the violation of the ceasefire. However, I do not read a single word about the Becker motion which we have signed. I would like the Prime Minister's undertaking to ensure that the European Union also does what that motion asks for on 26 March. I would also like a further response to reports that Member States need to contribute to the cost of the Turkey deal on the reception of Syrian refugees. Mr. Chairman. As far as European taxes on digital companies are concerned, we await the proposals that will come out tomorrow. Finally, in the context of the European Labour Authority, I would like to make a comment on a message that has come, a proposal from the European Commission that the financing of EIOPA, the European Insurance and Pension Supervisor, should be reduced by the EU and the Member States and, more importantly, by a new levy by the pension funds themselves. However, pension funds are not subject to the direct supervision of European supervisors. We understand that the pension sector fears that EIOPA will be given new powers, including on Dutch pension funds. This would mean, for example, a power to determine or correct the policy priorities of national supervisors. I want a clear answer from the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u32	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I now give the floor to Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u33	Mr. Chairman. Sometimes one statement says more than a thousand words. In this case, this statement by Commissioner Frans Timmermans on the appointment of the highest official of the European Commission is concerned: "If you make an official appointment, you would prefer not to have a lot of fuss and discussion, so I am very sorry that this has happened." Right. Timmermans regrets the fuss, not the boyfriend's political, corrupt appointment by Juncker, who without procedure bombed his personal associate as Chief of the European Commission. Or that has something to do with the possibly promised service car with driver and extra waiting money after the end of the term? That's a conjecture. This statement shows once again how miles away from the ordinary world are Timmermans and consorts. How hypocritical are they at that European Commission? The rules seem to be merely a measure of so-called 'inobedient Member States', but procedures do not need to be followed when it comes to one's own Europhiles, because of course that has to be taken care of. What does Prime Minister Rutte think of all this? The absence of harsh criticism from the cabinet is causing a great deal of control over the friends in Brussels. Has the Netherlands been informed in advance of the imminent flash designation of Mr Selmayr, who has finally taken the place of a Dutchman? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Even the urophils in the European Parliament fell over this appointment at the European summit last week. 'Falls', I say, because I understand that those same people are already undressing the investigation into the course of events. So much for the feigned indignation. The same European Parliament, which in large numbers blew off the tower about the appointment of Juncker's boyfriend, showed itself on its best side again last week, because the EP did what it was good at: claiming even more tax money with Parliament's ever-increasing budget. A limousine service at your disposal, a heavy expense charge of €4,300 without accountability, over €300 per day to simply show up at work, all on top of the €6,400 gross per month: it's all impossible. Part of the European Parliament also attempted to censor my colleague De Graaff, who told the truth about Islam in the lion's den. Freedom of speech applies to some only if you express the same opinion as them. In addition to wasting money, this is another common thread that connects the Brussels elite: hypocrisy. Censorship and EU fake news police, a load of EU rules in the field of Islamophobia and hate speech, and I myself experienced in Brussels that I received written questions from the staff of then Parliamentary President Schulz saying that it contained so-called 'offensive language'. If I wanted to change that for a second. And do you know why? Because I called Frontex a shuttle. Where the hell is this going, I'm asking the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, the cabinet sends a note to the Lower House stating that the Netherlands intends to participate in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Even before it is properly established, there are sounds for extending the mandate to combat terrorism. We were already cutting back at the request of Brussels, paying at the request of Brussels, and we will continue at the request of Brussels. The fact that the end has been lost is reflected in all the proposals put forward by the European Commission last week. The fact that social policy is and should remain a national issue does not prevent Eurocrats from finding and saying all kinds of things about it. That is where things go wrong, of course, because social policy is a national competence. Why are we standing by and looking at when these kinds of proposals come on the table? It is precisely this half-heartedness, this wait-and-see attitude, which causes more and more sovereignty to be passed on to Brussels, because Brussels has nothing to say about the length of paternity leave, and we are certainly not waiting for a European labour authority or a European social insurance number. That should be our message in Brussels. Does the Prime Minister intend to actively oppose this? Mr. Chairman. What also keeps coming back because the door is never finally closed is the debate on enlargement of the European Union, it is not with Turkey, then it is with the countries of the Western Balkans. As far as PVV is concerned, there can be no enlargement of the European Union to any country now or in the future. At this week's EU summit, the Heads of Government will prepare two separate meetings: a summit with Turkey and a summit with the Western Balkans. If we can believe the sounds, it should be about everything except enlargement. A Western Balkans summit which is supposedly not about enlargement, when these countries want nothing more than accession, is making people look bad. The only aim of these countries is to join the European Union and any summit will be seen as a step towards that goal. The European Union is offering them not only a sausage in the sense of a bag of money, but also perspective on a date, 2025, and yet another stage to advocate it. Mr. Chairman. If we can believe the Prime Minister, it's pretty much a dead end towards Turkey. Or almost everything, because the negotiations have not been stopped officially and Turkey is still a candidate country. Officially, Turkey has also been offered visa liberalisation, and I have not heard anyone say that it is no longer there. Officially, pre-accession aid is cut and reversed, but the money tap is still not closed. The only thing that is official is that the Turks voted by a majority about a year ago for a dictatorship in Turkey and that Brussels is still sitting in Erdogan's lap. Last week the grey gentlemen also woke up at the European Court of Auditors. Pre-accession aid to Turkey has been incorrectly spent. The PVV has already said this, now EUR 9 billion ago. I therefore call on the Prime Minister to stop the negotiations formally, close the money supply and demand our money back. Turkey is not part of the European Union. Finally, Mr President. While we are talking about the new European proposals, from a European Labour Authority to the proposal to be presented tomorrow on the introduction of European taxes for Internet companies, yesterday the message came out that the British have concluded a transition agreement with the European Union. The British are getting a little closer to their goal: a free and sovereign Britain. Let us follow them instead of letting the Netherlands go deeper every day into the swamp of European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u34	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u35	Thank you, Mr President. In the passionate speech recently made by the Prime Minister in Berlin, he mentioned three valuable principles for European cooperation: the EU must honour its basic promise in terms of prosperity, security and stability, the EU begins and ends with the Member States, and agreement is an agreement. We were very pleased with these principles. I also have these three points in mind when assessing the issues on the agenda of the forthcoming European Council. Let us first look at the internal market. When it comes to the internal market, the cabinet likes to speak in terms of deepening. The government's priority is to equip the digital economy, improve the services market and ensure adequate enforcement with rules where appropriate, harmonisation where appropriate. These ambitions undoubtedly contribute to prosperity, but the SGP has the impression that commercial considerations are very important for this cabinet. Our concern is that this can simply lead to undesirable effects, and that all these plans actually promote the end of the Member States rather than everything starting and ending with the Member States. My first question to the Prime Minister is therefore: what specific limits does the Prime Minister see on that deepening which is frequently discussed? Then social policy. The Netherlands says it is in favour of strengthening the social dimension, taking into account the fact that social policy is primarily a national matter. Colleagues have already underlined this once again, and rightly so. At the same time, the agreement on the pillar is welcomed, including European supervision. This attitude is contradictory and undesirable to my party. Therefore, to what extent there is still room for coordination for Member States in reality. Does the cabinet agree that the need for a European labour inspectorate has not yet been sufficiently demonstrated? I would also like to endorse Mr Leijten's rightfully critical questions. On immigration policy, I would like to ask the Prime Minister just one question, namely whether he shares our view that it is only by consensus that we can decide on something as far-reaching as compulsory asylum quotas. Then there's the taxes, another sneak-away process. In the BNC sheet of 3 November, the government indicated that it had a positive attitude towards a power in the field of taxation where these taxes had a direct impact on the internal market. It is precisely in the area of taxation that the EU must be extremely cautious. Does the Prime Minister share this view? I won't ask any further questions about the Brexit. Colleagues have discussed this in detail and I would simply repeat the questions. I would like to conclude by saying a few words about the situation in Afrin. Of a very different order, the item on the agenda is on the situation in Syrian Afrin. Rightly from the cabinet there are great concerns about the Turkish offensive there and the violation of Security Council Resolution 2401. Because of Turkey's central location and military strength, it is important to speak together, but that does not rule out contradiction. The SGP is for the broadest and firmest possible condemnation of these Turkish actions. Especially when the most recent reports of the atrocities that have been committed there pass me by, I beg your pardon, I also have pictures of the horrors of the Armenian genocide committed by the young Turkish state more than 100 years ago. Mr. Chairman. We are therefore in favour of a broad and firm condemnation of the Turkish actions. Not only because the fight against ISIS is hampered by Turkey's action, but also because Turkish hunger is far from being appeased. Hence my question as to whether there is a strategy within the EU and NATO to stop Turkey. A question is how humanitarian aid to Syrian Kurds is guaranteed. Mr President, that was my contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u36	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My contribution, at least on the issue of Afrin, is also on behalf of the Christian Union. Mr. Chairman. The European Summit and the Eurozone Summit are, in a way, intermediate summits. A large number of topics are discussed, but no conclusions are drawn. That seems non-binding, but of course it isn't, because a position taken behind the scenes isn't easy to change. I would like to discuss a number of points. The EU-Turkey Summit next week in Varna, the ambitious plans for the MFF, the Euro Summit, the Brexit, a number of integrity issues, our proposal for parliaments for greater transparency and a little bit more about the UK. Mr. Chairman. The EU-Turkey Summit on 26 March. Then 3 billion more will be promised to Turkey. I don't read anything about this in the annotated agenda, but it is the second tranche of the migration deal. But what happened to the first 3 billion? Are they well spent? Why does the European Court of Auditors' investigation only start after the next tranche has been promised? Can we ensure that when that research comes out and there are conclusions that it has to be different, the money can also be spent differently? Then the second money flow towards Turkey. That's pre-accession support. The European Court of Auditors is truly devastating. European objectives are not being met and Turkey is not getting any closer to accession.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u38	I have a short question for Mr Omtzigt because he spoke about the EU-Turkey deal and asked a number of questions about the 3 billion. In my contribution, I advocated a broader evaluation of this EU-Turkey deal. Because it is about money, of course, but it was also about refugees. Does Mr Omtzig perhaps think it would be a good idea for me to give a broader assessment of this EU-Turkey deal and to keep it under review, perhaps before we re-spend 3 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u39	I'm afraid all kinds of promises will be made in Varna next Monday. And it is unclear to me how we are going to make a broad assessment of this deal by Monday. But I can imagine that Mr Van Ojik insists that we also look at what is happening on the Greek islands and what happens when people are off those islands. I can imagine that that too will be looked at, because there are questions about that too. He has those questions. Mr Van Ojik and colleague Jasper van Dijk visited. There are also things to evaluate in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u40	Mr Van Ojik may respond, but I see that he does not need it. Carry on, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was working on pre-accession aid. This EU-Turkey summit is the moment to discuss a renewed relationship between the EU and Turkey. We need to work together on security, migration and the fight against terrorism. So does the Prime Minister. But we would also stop pre-accession support. Will the Prime Minister press for this to happen at the summit? And are we going to use a supplementary budget, which is adopted unanimously each time, to bring to an end the Dutch point that really needs to be put to an end? This money is badly spent. It went to Turkish prisons and Turkish security services. Surely we can't expect Dutch taxpayers' money to be spent on it? And what about visa liberalisation? I would like to receive a letter from the Prime Minister stating what progress has been made on the 72 conditions. Surely we do not want to see that we make hink-step-jumps there in one go that we can no longer reverse? As far as Afrin is concerned, I actually have one supplementary question, after all that has been asked. The Turks don't fight there alone. They also fight with the Free Syrian Army and other allies there. Has Dutch money gone to the allies of Turkey who are currently invading Afrin in the last few years? Or at the moment there are other countries within the EU that actively support these rebels, with non-lethal or lethargy support; I don't care. I think this is a very important question and I would like to have a precise answer to it. I'm coming to the MFK, Chairman. The European Parliament has called for an increase of 20%. Then it goes to 1.3% of gross national product; 160 billion extra. And if we do not increase the contribution, then we want European taxes. In this way, Parliament is very much in favour of music and is already putting itself on a stand-off. I would ask the Prime Minister to send a letter to the Chamber outlining the possibilities for modernisation and efficiency of the MFF. Does he want to take the European Parliament's commitment with him? The Brexit forces us to revise the MFF. So that's the seven-year budget. I really want to know where the red lines of the Dutch government stand. In particular, the CDA believes that the Structural Funds should be modernised. In addition to a European summit, there is also a euro summit, i.e. of the euro countries. It's on Friday morning and it's the first one since the Merkel cabinet. France and Germany wanted to make a big leap forward but have not yet put a plan on the table. Macron can jump high or low, but will have to have his house in order first. The CDA asks the Prime Minister to bring this in at the euro summit and at dinner tomorrow evening with the French President. We would also like to hear what the Prime Minister will discuss and what will come back to it. In addition, the Dutch commitment must be the execution of my motion on zero measurement. This zero measurement is about the risks that there are now, those hundreds of billions of undeprecated loans in the Italian banks in particular, for which, once we have a central guarantee system in 2023, we will pay for. What I am so afraid of is that we will only talk about the intentions to reduce risk and then say in 2023 "everyone has tried." Then we have a common backstop, and the next day the banks fall over and we can all pay. Is this zero measurement going to happen and there will be quantitative targets, from 'you really have to write off so much of those loans and the banks need to be healthy before we do that'? A bankrupt France or a bankrupt Italy cannot cope with this euro area. As far as I am concerned, not only are the governments of the eight countries moving together, but also the parliaments. And one thing: we are still opposed to a European budgetary capacity, aren't we? Mr. Chairman. About the Brexit, I join my colleagues. However, I would like to know what the commitment to the Dutch fisheries, horticulture and logistics sector is. I hope there'll be an orderly deal. That is really in the interests of both sides. I would advise the EU not to force the British to intervene in the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u42	I had another question about the multiannual budget, which Mr Omtzigt was just talking about. He spoke of the EP's desire to increase the budget by some 20%. Is the CDA for or against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u43	The CDA here in the Chamber and the Cabinet clearly have the commitment to stay below the current ceiling. That is about 1% of the EU budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u44	Can you explain why the CDA in the EP is voting on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u45	You know, you can ask the MEPs themselves on Monday. You can see my voting behaviour: I am not in favour of extending the European budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u46	But wouldn't it be more convenient to strengthen the Dutch position if in the EP too all noses are in the same direction to ensure that the ceiling goes down, or at least not up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u47	As far as I'm concerned, that ceiling doesn't go up. As far as I am concerned, you can simply put that question to the Dutch MEPs, with whom we have a debate on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u48	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u49	Mr. Chairman. So this trade relationship is important. I would also like to have an update from the Prime Minister about the Brexit on the recruitment and installation of the IT systems at customs, both on the Dutch and on the British side. We have a little more time for that now, but it's got to work out. By the way, the problems seem to be more on the British side than on the Dutch side. Mr. Chairman. Then it's about integrity. We had a motion here, which was adopted in Chambers, that the Heads of Government would raise the examination of the flash designation of Mr Selmayr, who was not even qualified for his position, in the General Affairs Council today. I didn't see it in the conclusions. I would like to know whether the Netherlands has raised it and why it is not in the conclusions. And if it is not there in the conclusions, then it should be at the European summit in the conclusions, I would say. I mean, almost any research is encouraged from the European Union, whether it be in Poland, Slovakia or Malta, but if it is to be investigated itself, then the Heads of Government will remain silent as the grave. This flash designation is serious for confidence in the European Union. That is why I urge you to do so. Mr. Chairman. In response to the European Commission's response to the inquiry into the lobbying activities of former Commission President Barroso and the Ombudsman's conclusions on this matter, I would like a response from the Prime Minister. That Goldman Sachs over there isn't very nice. Mr. Chairman. As far as pensions are concerned, I would like to join Mr Van Rooijen in asking whether the proposal of the PEP, the Pan-European Pension Product, is finally off the table. The Dutch Chamber was against it, but are we gonna get rid of it now? I agree with the point made by D66 about journalists in Malta and Slovakia. And I would like to know about Article 7 and Poland. Something should have come out of that today, but nothing. Mr. Chairman. Finally, our initiative on transparency. This European summit is again a good example of incomplete information. What am I saying? On Monday morning, in the confidential Delegations Portal zero, I repeat: zero documents on the Eurozone Summit and zero documents on the EU-Turkey Summit on Monday. And then we're gonna get conclusions and we're gonna agree again. This is not a way of monitoring very important initiatives, whether you agree or not. And this isn't the first time. It is done at European summits and it is done by legislation. Then we see texts, such as the IORP directives on pensions, less than 24 hours before the Dutch Government agrees. The European Ombudsman was tough. She mentioned this misguided policy, and you should be aware of this: the Union's misguided policy. This proposal involved 1,400 billion euros of Dutch money. Then we will send a letter with 26 parliaments to the European Council, to Mr Tusk. And what happens? It stays dead still for three months. The EU speaks in every article on parliamentary dialogue. Now more than 20 European Parliaments are asking 'let's talk about this' and the European Heads of Government are looking at each other, at the ceiling and outside, but not again: let's not go to the European parliaments that are ringing the bell. So I have a question here. Has anyone, but one head of government, made a proposal to address this fundamental criticism of the parliaments and the EU-Ombudsman at all? Or was that just not necessary and was it thrown in the trash, our report? Has it been discussed between EU leaders and when? What is the Dutch government going to do to carry out the Kamerwide wish? Does the Dutch Government really think that bad control is going to lead to better decisions? Minister Blok referred to a timetable when it is being discussed. Well, that letter just didn't come for this debate. Are we gonna get him for Monday's debate? Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a clear statement on what the Dutch Government has done with the four recommendations. When is the Dutch Government going to argue that this should be assumed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u50	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u51	Mr President, thank you. This debate is following the forthcoming European Summit. As usual, we are talking to the Prime Minister before that. There is still much to be achieved in the European Union in terms of completing the internal market. This ultimately benefits everyone with our redistribution mechanisms, especially the Netherlands. The European Council meets for a year and a half on the basis of a so-called Leaders Agenda, as it is called in jargon, precisely in order to facilitate a number of dossiers, including those of the internal market. There is still something to be achieved, for example in the digital single market. Sommen show that there is still more than 400 billion to be earned there. What exactly is the EU going to do? What results should be achieved and how will the Netherlands ensure that this happens? At the December summit this year, the results have to come out. Mr. Chairman. Last week, in the debate with Minister Blok of Foreign Affairs, I said something about the German coalition agreement and the ban on internet pharmacies. This also affects the Netherlands, for example in Limburg there are two internetapotheques. Now I'm advertising, if you don't mind: Shop-Apotheke in Venlo and DocMorris in Heerlen with 1,100 employees and a turnover of 350 million. They may be the victims of this German coalition agreement. My question to the Foreign Minister last week was: did you address your colleague and ask him not to do so? Is this what happened? What did you get out of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u52	Mr Mulder's contribution began with the completion of the internal market. That's almost some kind of spell formula, we hear that a lot. I have just asked the Prime Minister, and I am now asking Mr Mulder: isn't that part of the definition of the boundaries of market forces, for example in the area of procurement in healthcare? I mentioned that example, but there are many more examples. Does Mr Mulder agree with me that perfection not only involves more, more, more market, but also sometimes the setting of clear limits to market forces?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u53	I'm old-spoke caretaker. The advantage of tendering is that you get competition. Healthcare providers often compete on price and quality. You don't have to limit that, but you have to make sure you steer properly. You have to make sure that whoever does that says: I want this quality............................................................................................................................................................ Then competition and competition often leads to lower prices and better quality. You'll have more money left and we'll still have something to do with healthcare expenses, because they're only going up. So we can make sure that healthcare expenditure is kept within control.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u54	If, for example, Mr Mulder were to consult his own VVD aldermen, they would, I think, be able to tell him more about that. We have done this in many municipalities, including VVD aldermen. We have heard that this call for tenders will lead to competition on the price to the detriment of quality and that it will result in additional workload for the people who won the tender, so to speak. Could you then imagine that the conclusions on the internal market also include framework conditions that limit this kind of excess on the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u55	In that respect, I am a democrat. You shouldn't do that by rules. You have to do that with good aldermen who know exactly what they're talking about. I think there's an election tomorrow. So you have to choose a city council that has this kind of thing in order. You don't need European rules for that. That's what the local elections are about tomorrow. They're about a question like "what does a city council want, a city council with care?" There is something to choose, especially now that more and more tasks have gone to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u56	Finally, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u57	Finally, Mr President. This will appeal to a liberal. Indeed, there are European procurement rules that make it impossible for municipalities to organise care in their own way. When it comes to an amount above €750,000, they must tender. They will then have to allow market forces and accept competition on prices, with all the consequences for quality and workload. So there is something to choose. There is a difference between the parties who say 'we are prepared to limit this form of market forces' and the parties, as Mr Mulder apparently said, who say 'no, that is the market that has to do its job'. There is indeed something to choose, and I agree with Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u58	That is indeed the market. A city council, an alderman, must then ensure that it sets exactly the right requirements in terms of price and quality. This often leads to a lower price and then you can use your money to lower the ozb, for example, as many VVD aldermen want, or to give extra money to enforcers, as the VVD in The Hague wants. But I think I've strayed a little bit off the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u59	It's a good thing you're aware of that. Please continue. Oh, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u60	You might wonder where the VVD has been in recent years when it comes to procurement, the red tape around it, the costs of home care and youth care, the problems that the calls for tenders have given us and the burden that local government has on us. But I have another question for Mr Mulder. The internal market and its completion also include the notification directive. This means that local and provincial authorities, if they want to do something in the internal market, must first ask for permission from Brussels and only after three months can they take a local political decision. Is that what the VVD sees as control locally and in the Member States, or does the internal market here simply prevail in relation to the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u61	That was your last question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u62	The advantage of the internal market is that this is what this is all about, and that I also outline is that you get competition on price and quality. That is useful for a consumer, because they can choose. If you can choose, providers have to make up for their products, otherwise they lose sales, lose customers and go bankrupt. That mechanism is good. It is also good that municipalities are forced to do so. They have to make a good cutlery and say: this is the quality and this is the price.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u63	No, Mrs Leijten, that was an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u64	No, I asked another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u65	You've really run out of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u66	No, I asked another question. For example, the notification directive is about local government, which says: we want to ensure that there is a surface limit on the shopping street so that there are no too large retail chains. In future, this will have to be submitted to the European Commission before there can be local governance. Does the VVD think that local democracy is ahead or does it think that the internal market and hence the decision in Brussels are ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u67	We need to take a good look at what that means. Of course, we should not get in the way of local authorities, but it is good to encourage competition and to ensure that it gets off the ground. You shouldn't be able to say in municipalities that you don't want to or that you don't want to for any reason. Putting that in is smart in itself, because then you get competition. Which leads to... well, I've already said that. I don't have to say it three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u68	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mr. Chairman. I've already talked about the two internetapotheques in Heerlen. Then Mr Trump with his trade war. It affects the Dutch economy and Dutch jobs. As far as the VVD is concerned, the import charges that may come have nothing to do with national security. In this respect, the European Union must stand united against the United States, so that they do not do so. Then we also see the added value of the European Union. As Mr Verhoeven said, you are stronger on behalf of 500 million consumers than as a country alone. In fact, the European Union is a stronger economic bloc than America. We're taking advantage of that now. Preferably, we should work together with the EU against China. That capitalist-communist with all kinds of subsidies for steel is what we shouldn't have. Then there are EU trade treaties. There are now a number of trade agreements that are EU-only. National parliaments will no longer be needed and will not be used. It would be a good idea to discuss the basic principles of such a trade agreement before trade agreements are concluded and negotiations begin. This must also be discussed with the national parliaments. How does the Prime Minister view that? Then the Western Balkans. There will be a special Western Balkans Summit. Above all, we should not mention accession dates for the six countries there, such as Albania, Montenegro and Serbia. Because then it is no longer about whether they meet the criteria, but about whether they are ready on that date. Then that becomes an end in itself. Sometimes you have the impression that the Balkan countries need to reform the European Union, but the message to those countries must be that they are not reforming because the European Union requires them to do so, but because they need to tackle corruption and organised crime for their own people. Put yourself at the service of the people. That's the message we should be radiating. Questions have been asked about the United Kingdom and the poison gas attack. As far as the VVD is concerned, we must support the United Kingdom in this. Is that what the Prime Minister's gonna do? The euro has been mentioned. What's on the agenda? What's being discussed? What is the Dutch commitment? The same applies to taxes. I understand they're literally on the menu because they're being discussed at dinner on Thursday. What's in front of that? What's the Prime Minister gonna do? Then Macron. It's good he's coming. I boldly asked the French ambassador whether Macron could also visit this Parliament. But yes, that's a little strange, because he can't even visit his own parliament, so let alone ours. I can't wait to see what's coming out of it. There are differences: the Presidential France, the pragmatic Netherlands. There is also a difference in grandeur. If I look to the right, I can imagine that we could still use a French opinion on our flag. That's what they do nicely there. Above all, I am curious to see where there are agreements with France and where the Prime Minister comes in. Finally, the Brexit. The transitional agreement is in the making. It is good news for Dutch citizens and companies that there is not just a Brexit without transition time, but that companies can prepare themselves. It has already been said that there is still a large subject on the table, namely the border with Ireland. So we're not here yet, but there's a start. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u70	Thank you, Mr. Anne Mulder. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u71	Mr President, thank you. We are talking today, as has been announced by colleagues, about the European Summit. We're seeing two opposite developments. On the one hand, we have the disintegration of Europe with the Brexit. On the other hand, there are attempts at further integration through economic and monetary union. There is much on the agenda: the Digital Single Market, the Capital Markets Union, the Energy Union and the Internal Market Strategy, and possibly also tax harmonisation. I'd like to start with the latter. Yesterday there was coverage of new plans for taxing Internet giants such as Uber, Amazon, Google, Facebook and Airbnb. These Internet capitalists now pay too little tax, because they themselves can decide to a large extent where their profits are taxed. They can opt for countries with a low corporate tax rate, such as Ireland and Luxembourg. It goes without saying that this is unfair. Now the European Commission would have advanced plans for a 3% turnover tax, as we have read. The DENK Group supports this GAFA tax. What is the state of play in this? And what is the government's position on this tax? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Previously, percentages from 1% to 5% were mentioned. Why has a turnover tax of not 5% but 3% been chosen, and not a profit tax, for example? To what extent can sales tax of 3% for example Google or Airbnb be compared with the current corporate tax rate in the Netherlands of 21%? Do these Internet capitalists pay enough taxes? Isn't it strange that there are still unfair tax advantages? It can't be, can it? How do we explain this to our own SMEs? Mr. Chairman. There is a creative proposal from the DENK Group. Can we also consider a kind of penalty tax for companies such as Facebook, which has allowed Cambridge Analytica to secretly withdraw data from 50 million profiles of Facebook users? What does the Prime Minister think of an additional "data theft levy" of 5% on the turnover of those companies that allow misuse of their data? Mr. Chairman. In the deepening of EMU, tax harmonisation has so far had little focus. The cabinet itself wants to contribute to increased tax competition in Europe by abolishing the dividend tax. In doing so, the cabinet opts for a trumpian line: bringing companies in and holding them with tax advantages. Of course, that is not the right way forward, as is the trade war that Trump has waged with his import tariffs on steel. The result will be that our neighbouring countries will also set the dividend tax at zero. Is there a progressive insight into the dividend tax in the cabinet, especially now that Unilever has chosen to establish his head office in the Netherlands? Is it not better to harmonise the dividend tax, for example on the current Dutch rate of 15%? This could also be done for corporate tax. Is it true that Germany and France are in favour of a uniform Vpb tariff? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Is it true that France and Germany are still in favour of the anti-speculation tax on flash capital, also known as the Tobin tax? The advantage of the Tobin tax is that there will be less senseless fast capital flows, and thus the financial markets will become less unstable. In addition, the EU will receive more own income, which could reduce the country's contribution. How's the cabinet in here? Now that Britain is waving off as a Member State, a major opponent of the Tobin tax from the EU is disappearing. Is it true that this could give the Tobin tax new opportunities, I ask the Prime Minister? Mr. Chairman. Finally, something about the Brexit. It is, of course, a worrying development. The DENK Group is pleased that a provisional agreement has been reached on a transitional period until 31 December 2020. If we are right, the UK will have about the status of Switzerland for two years. The UK thus maintains access to the Customs Union, the Internal Market and the Trade Treaties, and the migration rights of EU citizens are maintained for the time being. But the UK no longer has any control over EU decision-making, which it has to follow. Is that right? And is it true that the opponents of the Brexit have achieved exactly the opposite of what they wanted in the short term? Is it true that there is still no definitive agreement on the status of Northern Ireland and the Irish border? As far as the DENK Group is concerned, Northern Ireland can simply continue to be part of the European Customs Union, so that the Irish island does not have to experience a new unnecessary division. 56% of Northern Ireland was against the Brexit. In Scotland, that was 62%. Does the Prime Minister also see opportunities for Scotland to continue to be part of the European Customs Union? I would like to hear the Prime Minister's view on the future of Northern Ireland and Scotland after the Brexit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u72	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There's a need for suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u73	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u74	Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of questions about a lot of subjects. In any case, I try to answer the questions that affect the European Council that is taking place on Thursday and Friday as well as possible. I will try to answer the questions not directly related to them as much as possible. I'm just saying I'm gonna try. We also have the State of the Union on Monday, of course. So maybe things can come back there. Maybe if there are holes in your eyes in my answer, I can promise that we'll see if we can take that Monday, but I'm going to make a far-reaching attempt. First of all, tomorrow night President Macron will visit. In doing so, we will discuss the issues in which France and the Netherlands work together. Then you have to think of joint external border surveillance, the removal of the root causes of migration and a very ambitious European climate policy. You know the coalition agreement, which is based on a 55% reduction in CO emissions in 2030 compared to 1990. This is a tightening-up of more than 15% compared to the current European objective. How are we going to work together and how can we ensure that the climate aspect is always taken as far as possible into account in all European policy considerations? We want to work together on this. For example, there is a very broad agenda that we will be discussing. I think it is good to have regular contact with the large Member States, but also with the smaller Member States. I really appreciate him coming this way tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u75	I haven't made any deals with you guys about the number of interruptions, but we're doing it the same way we did in the first term, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u76	We have talked a lot here today and at other times about the Turkish invasion in Afrin and the continuation of that Operation Olive branch. Minister Blok keeps saying that we are on our own and that we should get others on our side when it comes to condemning that raid and taking action. Is the Prime Minister prepared to discuss this with Mr Macron tomorrow evening and see if France can side with the Netherlands in a condemnation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u77	Yes, as I discussed it with Prime Minister May and the Chancellor of Germany. To get to the bottom of this, the Netherlands has spoken with many allies and EU Member States about a common position on Turkey's action in Afrin, including in the various capitals, through NATO and through the European Union. I will also be discussing this tomorrow. All talks show one thing, namely that other countries share our concerns, including about the impact on the fight against ISIS and the humanitarian consequences of the offensive, but at the same time there is no basis, both within the European Union and within NATO, for condemning Turkey. Mr Blok, Mr Stef Blok, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, also spoke about this during Question Time. The Netherlands is clearly expressing its views on the Turkish offensive in Afrin and remains committed to respecting the UN Security Council Resolution 2401. As you know, that resolution calls for a ceasefire in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u78	Thank you for that. A brief second question. Mr Blok, Minister Blok, has also informed us that there is no support. I would very much like to hear from the Prime Minister that the Netherlands does not accept this observation and does not think: that is the case, and we leave it at that. I would very much like to hear that the Prime Minister and the other members of the cabinet continue to work to see if there will be support in the coming weeks. I think that's the least we can do for the people in Afrin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u79	Yeah, we're gonna keep doing that, like tomorrow night. There is a very precarious situation, as Mrs Ploumen and others have pointed out. The United Nations responds to this situation by providing assistance to displaced persons from Afrin wherever possible. The United Nations has allocated funds in general funds, for which the Netherlands, as Mrs Ploumen knows, is a major donor, for aid in Afrin and East Ghouta. The United Nations is already ready to provide more aid from Turkey in Afrin. We must say that, of course, this aid can only be given if the necessary security guarantees have been given by the warring parties. We will continue to work at the UN for this humanitarian access. So that is additional to what Mrs Ploumen is asking. That is why we call for respect for the ceasefire and, of course, humanitarian law of war. As I said, the Becker motion on the condemnation of the consequences was discussed with Minister Blok at the Foreign Affairs Council yesterday. I have just said what the position is within the EU and, by the way, within NATO at the moment. I also refer to the earlier answer that we will continue to fight for our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u80	Mr President, you have just said in a way that we are doing it as in the first term of office. But we have a European summit with a lot of issues on the agenda. There are even all kinds of other things around it. I think it's too limited. I'd just like to point out that I think it's too limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u81	That's good. I've taken note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u82	Maybe colleagues will support that, too. Then I have one more question for the Prime Minister. Macron's coming to visit tomorrow. We are going to talk about the issues on which we agree and on which we strengthen each other, such as climate policy and so on. I'm getting a little creepy that we just don't know what's being discussed. There will be an important summit on Thursday and Friday. What are the Netherlands and France going to do together? What has the Netherlands already agreed with France in advance on how they will enter into the discussions? That really needs to be clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u83	That visit tomorrow is not within the framework of the European Council on Thursday and Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u84	That's a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u85	Of course it is also about the European Council. Of course! You will see each other again Wednesday evening and Thursday and Friday, there are all kinds of things on the agenda and they would not be discussed? You can send a lot of people into the reeds with a rug, but I'm not gonna stand for this. What's on the agenda? What are we gonna hang out on? What exactly is being prepared?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u86	Mrs Leijten is getting very angry, but this is my answer. The President of France and I have regular conversations. I've been to the Elysée a few times and he's coming to The Hague tomorrow. That is quite a coincidence on the eve of the European Council, because that agreement has been in preparation for some time. Of course you are talking about the European Council. Yeah, sure, but that's not why he's here. That's not the main objective. The main objective is to further align between the Netherlands and France on joint positions, for example the shared views of the Netherlands and France on the future of the European Union. This is discussed in detail here in the Chamber. My speech in Berlin has also been referred to. This speech, of course, also draws a great deal from the thinking that has also formed in the coalition and that forms itself here in the Chamber in the context of debates on the state of the Union. I'm not gonna be presenting new things to the President of France all of a sudden. If you see the Dutch line and if you see what France wants in the field of migration, security, external border surveillance, climate policy, trade, a fair internal market, Mrs Ploumen referred to this and the whole Services Directive, these are all subjects on which France and the Netherlands have very convergent positions. It's interesting to see if you can get into that together. But many of these things are not on the agenda of the European Council, for example climate policy and external border surveillance. We're hardly gonna talk about migration Thursday and Friday, I don't even think at all. But they're all topics we're going to talk about tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u87	The Prime Minister spoke in Berlin and said there: a deal is a deal. Will the Prime Minister also ask Mr Macron tomorrow evening whether he would like to put the French house in order as part of that agreement before we can discuss further deepening of monetary union and the like? That is quite separate from the question of what is actually the purpose of tomorrow evening, Thursday and Friday, but is he going to raise the issue of putting the French house in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u88	I don't think this president would have to do that. If you see at what rate he is in the process of reforming the French labour market, for example, that is one of the first major reforms in recent French history. He intends to continue to do so. He is well aware that the deficit and the French public debt are both too high. His ambition is to make France competitive. He is also prepared to use his broad mandate for this purpose. We're all aware of that. That's what he's doing. Definitely visible. Look at what he did last August in the labour market. Mr Van Rooijen's question also stated that we could go further if Europe were to reduce that kind of risk. I would like to take a different view. If countries do so, they do not need to be deepened in these areas, so that countries can solve the problem themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u89	I would also like to say to the Prime Minister that today is about the European summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u90	Yeah, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u91	On Monday there will be an all-day notation meeting where these kinds of questions can be asked. So I'd like to stick to the subject. I'll tell the Prime Minister that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u92	Good plan. But that was the question, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u93	Can I then ask a brief supplementary question on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u94	Again about Macron?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u95	Yes, very briefly. I didn't mean to say that first the house should be in order and then there could be a floor. I agree with the Prime Minister that we do not want that. If the French put the house in order, I think they'd use that as an argument to you. But then you're gonna have to go upstairs with us, and you and I don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u96	No, no, we're not gonna do that floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u97	The chairman won't allow it. By the way, I agree with her on the substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u98	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u99	Of course, there were quite a few questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u100	I can see you too, Mr. Ommzigt, but the Prime Minister has been busy for one minute and has been interrupted for ten minutes. Questions were asked in the first term and you also expect them to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u101	Will there be a block of Turkey and Afrin later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u102	Don't touch it anymore. I'll move on to Turkey. But I've treated Afrin now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u103	I had a question about Afrin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u104	Then you can ask a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u105	I asked a question about Afrin, Chairman. Turkey, along with a number of other combat groups, attacks and has taken over Afrin. That happened along with the Free Syrian Army. Have either the Netherlands or other European countries supported the Free Syrian Army in the past? That's what I'd like to know, because that could have an impact. That may be a reason why they do not want to condemn this. I would just like to point out that the Netherlands has transferred EUR 21.4 million to rebel groups to buy cars, blankets, medicines and other items; anything but weapons and...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u106	Yeah, I heard that question. This is so outside the framework of the European Council now, on Thursday and Friday, that I really do not have that ready. I think Mr Omtzigt really needs to discuss this with the Foreign Minister. That is my suggestion, because this goes far beyond my powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u107	We are talking here about Afrin and the conviction of that. This could be exactly why countries are against it. If the Prime Minister himself is unable to answer that question at the moment, will he ensure that there is a letter by Thursday 12 noon stating whether the Netherlands or other countries in the West have supported the rebels that have been raised together or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u108	No, Mr Omtzigt really needs to discuss that with the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u109	Mr. Chairman. This is where the Prime Minister stands on behalf of the entire Dutch government. Why can't he ensure that a question he can't answer at the moment but which is relevant to the next Thursday and Friday summit is answered for that Thursday and Friday summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u110	I refer to the previous answer. Shall I continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u111	This is gonna be a repeat, Mr. Overzigt. In the meantime, you have actually repeated the same questions. I'm afraid this...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u112	This is basic budget law. 21.4 million euros of Dutch money was spent on rebels in Syria. In Afrin war crimes are committed. I want to know whether these rebels were supported at any time by the Netherlands or by other Western countries. That's relevant to whether they're going to judge it or not. It can't be that we wouldn't know that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u113	This is a level of detail which goes far beyond the European Council. That's what the Secretary of State is for. He has an entire building with people to help Mr. Ommzigt. They can answer this question through the Minister for Foreign Affairs. That's not gonna work with one general affairs counselor. This is really something for the debate with Mr Blok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u114	I'd like to suggest that we move on, Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u115	Mr President, I would ask you to address the Prime Minister or the Minister for Foreign Affairs so that this is answered. This isn't just the State Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u116	Let us then pass this section of the stenogram on to the Foreign Minister and see how quickly he can respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u117	Then I'd like to hear it before Thursday. Can you take care of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u118	I'm not admitting anything about the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u119	The Acts are, of course, also read by the Foreign Office. I think the Minister will take note of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u120	No doubt. He's following all the debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u121	He'll answer our questions. You can take care of that, can't you, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u122	I propose that the stenogram of this part of the meeting be transferred to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u123	Mr. Chairman. With regard to Turkey, a few questions have been raised by Mr Omtzigt, but also by others on pre-accession aid. To begin with, it might be good to mention that this leadership meeting in Varna is not taking place with all the European Council members, but with the President of the European Council, the President of the Commission, the Bulgarian Presidency and the Turkish President. So I am not there myself and my colleagues in the European Council are not there either, except for the President or the Prime Minister of Bulgaria; I think the Prime Minister. Of course, the plan, as I have been informed, is that our President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, will highlight a number of issues: the rule of law, human rights, but also, of course, Afrin. That will also be in line with the Voordewind/Becker motion adopted by the Chamber. It is not obvious that pre-accession aid should be discussed at this meeting. We agree that, given the circumstances, it is not obvious to continue to provide pre-accession aid to Turkey. We have also made this clear repeatedly in the past year in various European meetings, both at political and official level, also at the October 2017 European Council. But it simply appears that there is insufficient support for it, as the Chamber knows. Last week's European Court of Auditors report, to which Mrs Leijten referred, naturally strengthens us in the conviction that this pre-accession aid should be suspended; all in all. That means that with this report in hand we will argue for that position even more. Again, there is currently insufficient support for this in Europe. It is true that the European Council in October 2017 decided to reduce and reverse the aid, and that has been a small success. The Commission is currently preparing the requested recast. The Court shall be informed thereof as soon as further information has been obtained from the Commission. That is why that is not foreseen for this summit. Looks like the summit is going ahead. There will undoubtedly be talk of Afrin, as I said. I have already mentioned that this is in line with the Voordewind motion, but also with the UN Security Council Resolution 2401, which has already been mentioned. There is no reason to send a letter on visa liberalisation. The Commission will report to the Council when progress is made, but that is not the case at the moment. As soon as there's anything to report, we're going to inform the Chamber. No problem at all. That's going to happen, of course. And then the first tranche of the migration deal with Turkey; the agreements of March 2016. The European Court of Auditors will publish a report on the Refugee Facility in Turkey this year. Last week, in the context of the second annual report, the Commission published a number of reports on this facility and its results. The Court shall be informed in writing within a short period of time. The Commission gives a justification and examples of what the money has been spent on. There is no reason to doubt the proper use of these funds. If the European Court of Auditors makes recommendations, the Netherlands will, of course, call for this to be followed up. I would strongly oppose waiting for the second tranche until it has all been discussed, because that would mean that funding for the reception of refugees in Turkey will be stopped and that we are not a reliable partner, because we have agreed with the Turks: when the first tranche runs out, there will be a second tranche. There will also have to be a little fight about its financing. The Netherlands takes the view that the Commission has said before, and we want to stick to it, that the Commission will fully finance it from the European budget. The Commission is now sending out other signals on this subject, but the Netherlands and other countries too want to keep to the Commission's commitment to finance the whole of the MFF. Then there is the third subject I would like to discuss. After Macron and Turkey I come to the taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u124	Maybe we should talk about the migration deal after all. The Prime Minister talks about the Court of Auditors and the second instalment of the money. I am also interested in this, but what interests me is what happens to all those people who want to escape Syria or have fled Syria and who are in Turkey or Greece. Would it be a good idea, after two years, to look a little more broadly at what this Turkey deal has meant for all these other aspects and all those other countries, except that we, like Germany, have gotten a lot less refugees at the border? It's not even about holding that tranche. At least I didn't argue that. But wouldn't that be a good idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u125	I think we have a pretty good idea of that. The general picture is that Turkey is mostly keeping to the agreements. The problem seems rather to be with the Greeks as regards the speedy settlement of appeals and the return of people to Turkey. This also leads to major problems on the Greek islands. The Netherlands is therefore strongly in favour of the Greeks, but also within the European framework, that the Greeks also keep their share of the agreements well. We also want to help. We already do. We are prepared to give much more help if necessary, because we naturally want to do it properly and worry about the situation on Lesbos and the other islands. But if there are concerns, I think that they lie before the question of how Greece deals with the agreements rather than how the Turks do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u126	Perhaps the agreements made will be kept well, but agreements you made two years ago often have consequences. Let me give you one example. Two weeks ago, there was a report by Unicef stating that 380,000 Syrian children of the more than 3 million Syrian refugees currently being received in Turkey are carrying out child labour in Turkey. I did not foresee that two years ago as a possible consequence of the Turkey deal and perhaps not the Prime Minister either. My plea is that, after two years, at the threshold of a new 3 billion, we look at whether that money is being spent well, and Mr Omtzig has, among other things, drawn attention to this, but also look at the effects of the deal. To be honest, that seems a pretty logical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u127	I would, however, like to try to find out for the second time whether there is a time somewhere that that deal is being discussed in a broader context, in the General Affairs Council, or by the migration ministers, or... we can see when that is foreseen. I'm sure you will. We always discuss everything endlessly, so I'm sure this will come up again somewhere. We'll see when that's.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u128	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u129	We will see if we can do that, otherwise I will have it with me on Monday in the debate on the state of the Union. Mr. Chairman. Taxation will also be discussed at this European Council. We will talk in particular about taxation of the digital economy. The Commission is indeed putting forward two proposals for directives. As usual, these will be shared with the Chamber via a BNC-fiche. We'll analyze it carefully. We are not going to make any decisions on this matter on Thursday and Friday. It will be more of a general exchange of views, with the Netherlands not in a camp. Firstly, we said that it would be good to do as much as possible in the context of the OECD and the G20. We do not want this to be a sort of prelude to a common European tax base, the triple CTB. As you know, the Netherlands is reluctant to do so. Nor should it become a new European means. In itself, we want to look at the proposals, but again, we will appreciate them as soon as they arrive. After all, it's still a bit of a search. We're not gonna make any decisions on Thursday and Friday. That's not foreseen. In general, I agree with Mr Bishop that we should be cautious in the field of taxation. There is therefore no European proposal for a minimum rate, I would just like to say to Mr Azarkan and to Mr Bishop. The EU Treaties provide, as we know, the legal basis for directives on VAT, excise duties and other indirect taxes. The legal basis for direct taxation directives links the establishment and functioning of the internal market. This means that the Commission must not make all kinds of proposals. In order to promote the internal market and prevent abuse of tax rules at the expense of the internal market, European legislation on taxation has been introduced in the past. Think of avoiding double taxation or measures to prevent tax avoidance. We have always worked positively on this. In the case of new proposals on direct taxation, too, we have to consider very carefully whether they serve the internal market. That is the starting point of the cabinet. We will make any proposals along this line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u130	The letter states that the Dutch cabinet has a preference for a global solution, and also through the OECD. Since last week, however, we know that America has actually suspended the OECD talks. They didn't get out at all. Suppose that remains the case, does that mean that the Netherlands is going to move a little more towards a European solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u131	No. In any case, the Netherlands will carefully examine the Commission's proposals which will come forward tomorrow. We have a preference, namely to do it as much as possible in G20 and OECD. It's not a sine qua nun, but it has our strong preference. Mr President, the matter in Salisbury. Of course, it's terrible what happened there. It was a shocking attack with a chemical weapon. I would like to express my condolences to the British people on behalf of the government once again. The truth finding is central. Punishment is not an option. We support the United Kingdom. We are in close consultation with partners, with allies and, of course, with the United Kingdom itself. The Foreign Affairs Council issued a statement this week. The Netherlands does not have independent information on the attack. This means that we do not make any statements about the perpetrator or perpetrators, or about Russia's involvement. However, we believe that it is of the utmost importance that Russia should now open up this so-called 'novichok programme'. There is also support for the statement by the United States, France, Germany and the United Kingdom that, in the absence of an alternative explanation, Russia is very likely to be responsible. I do not anticipate any action against Russia. Moreover, they are not now requested by the United Kingdom in a European context.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u132	I understand, however, that you do not want to be too sure about this if you, as a country, do not have any information about the circumstances of a particular incident. Other countries, Germany, France, the United Kingdom and the United States, have done so. Do they have any independent information?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u133	We don't know. I assume so, but that's speculation. We are, of course, dealing with the Davids Committee's report and its evaluation. We'll sail on that compass.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u134	But it seems to me that if you're in a relationship with each other and working together, you're also discussing what you do and what you don't know. How's that going? Maybe other people know that, you know, they spend more time in this kind of diplomatic world. But if you're just saying that we can't find anything because we don't know what's going on, when a lot of other countries do, it raises the question: how can you handle your own information position? Is information shared about something like that or is that just not happening at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u135	Of course, you can't say anything about that. The question was whether the Netherlands has an independent information position. The answer to that is no. Whatever else is shared between services, I can't say anything in public. But the question was: does the Netherlands have an independent information position? That was also one of the teachings from the Davids Committee's investigation into the war in Iraq in 2003 and the support for it. The Davids Committee has recommended that the wind be much sharper there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u136	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u137	Mr. Chairman. I'll get to the Brexit. There are, of course, a lot of developments in this area. Last weekend, the European Commission and the United Kingdom reached agreement in principle on a number of important parts of the treaty text for the so-called withdrawal agreement. I refer to the transitional period, the citizens, the financial settlement and various other separation issues, as it is so well called. In December there was a joint report and then it was agreed to reach a draft withdrawal agreement. That joint report is now included in that draft withdrawal agreement. There are no changes, there is no backtracking. That is, in itself, a good thing. The United Kingdom has also given in to most of the European Union's requests for the transitional period. This means that during the transitional period the UK will be treated as a Member State under international agreements with third countries. The United Kingdom does not participate in the EU institutions during the transitional period and citizens' rights remain the same during the transitional period. That transitional period shall run from the date of entry into force of the Retirement Agreement and in principle shall run until 31 December 2020 at the latest. Indeed, some of you have referred to the fact that there is no agreement yet on the Irish border issue. In recent days we have seen a significant change in the position of the United Kingdom. We see that this position has changed in order to allow an agreement in principle on the transitional period. They come up with a commitment in a cover note to the withdrawal agreement, which will state that the backstop option, which is actually the border in the Irish Sea, should become part of the treaty text of the withdrawal agreement if no other solution can be found. Bet is and remains to prevent a hard border on the island, so between the republic and the province, and also to maintain the Good Friday agreement including the Common Travel Area. Anyway, there's no clear vision yet on how to do that. It is agreed that there will be a joint work plan with a detailed agenda for the coming weeks. In addition, a paragraph is likely to be included in the European Council's guidelines stating that the June European Council will return to this point in the event of insufficient progress. And there will be a letter from the British Prime Minister to the President of the European Council with political coverage of the commitment. That agreement in principle is very important, and many of you have rightly said so, because it shows that the United Kingdom and the European Union have the intention of confronting citizens and businesses with as few changes as possible during the transitional period. The European Union and the United Kingdom also have more time to actually negotiate this future relationship. But at the same time I warn: nothing is wrong until everything is wrong. That too is part of these conversations. This means that the agreement in principle will not be final until agreement has been reached on the whole withdrawal agreement and has been approved by all parties, in accordance with their own procedures. Mr. Chairman. A number of more detailed questions have been asked. Mr Omtzigt asked: what about the Dutch containment measures? As far as the Dutch Government is concerned, not only in a cliff-edge scenario, but also in an agreement on a new relationship in which the United Kingdom would leave the customs union and the internal market, we must of course take that into account. The Dutch customs are inventorying what is needed in different scenarios. The NVWA will also have to consider how robust the current ICT system can adapt to the expected volume increases in import and export applications. For the time being, it is expected that the current system will be able to cope with this increase. This is tested well before the date of exit with a simulation so that any necessary adjustments can be made in good time. You may have seen that both customs and NVWA are also attracting extra people, to be prepared, and not only on the cliff-edge scenario but also on a scenario in which England is no longer part of the customs union or customs union. the internal market. We have to assume that for the time being. As far as trade agreements are concerned, they are allowed to negotiate during the transitional period. That's also important. They may also conclude trade agreements, but they should not apply. This can only be done after the transitional period, as of course. Otherwise it would be contrary to the integrity of the internal market. Mrs Ploumen asked us to look at a number of open ends, such as Europol and air rights. Of course, we see the so-called traffic light document on the websites of the Commission and the UK Government. That has now been published. There is no agreement yet on what has remained white. This includes the issue of the Irish border. The EU position is included in the draft withdrawal agreement. Air rights and Europol are part of the future relationship. So there is nothing about that in the withdrawal agreement. It becomes part of the agreements on the future relationship, where the interests for us are broad, because of the interests of our aviation. This is, of course, about the importance of Schiphol and the importance of KLM. In other words, we are very active in this. It's good on radar, literally and figuratively. It is widely shared among other Member States. It is, of course, also very important for the United Kingdom. So it's an irreversible step? That question was rightly asked by Mr Van Rooijen. In itself, it's just good news, but like I said, it's not done until it's all done. This will not be final until agreement has been reached on the whole, so in that sense it is not yet irreversible, but it is of great value. Mr Verhoeven asked about Mr Verhofstadt, who said: could an association agreement perhaps be a form in the future? Yes, it could be, because an overall broad agreement with several pillars in the field of trade, in the socio-economic field and in the field of internal and external security would be good. This can be done, for example, in the form of an association agreement. It will not be up to us as the European Union. It will not be the Netherlands either. As you know, the Dutch cabinet is committed to an agreement as broad and as deep as possible. But once again it depends on the commitment of the United Kingdom. Mr Omtzigt asked about the Dutch commitment to fisheries, agriculture and logistics. These are important subjects for us for the second phase. The Netherlands, of course, has broad interests. There is a lot at stake for a number of sectors. Things are gonna change. The future relationship will, by definition, be less profound and profound than the current EU membership of the United Kingdom, especially with regard to fisheries and the food processing industry. This also applies to other EU Member States. We're gonna hang out in there together. That is why we are also seeking an ambitious and broad agreement with the British with as few obstacles as possible to as many sectors as possible. It is not only economic but also geopolitically important to keep the United Kingdom as closely as possible involved, at least as closely as possible, in the internal market, even if they are no longer in it. However, at the same time there must be a level playing field. There are rules within the internal market, and the British red lines are complicated. We believe that the final agreement should not undermine European policy on humans, plants, animals and the environment. Of course, maintaining access to British waters and the distribution of fishing quotas is essential for Dutch fishermen and the associated chain operators. We always bring this to the attention of the European Commission. Therefore, in the draft guidelines for the future relationship, we call for a link between access to British waters and fish stocks and market access. The British have an interest in this because of their fish production and their access to the European market. If they want to keep it, then of course there will have to be something to do with it. Mr. Azarkan asked if the United Kingdom would be granted the status of Switzerland. Is that right? No, that's not right. It is a unique situation, which cannot be compared to anything at the moment. In any event, during the transitional period, the EU acquis remains applicable to the UK without their participation in the institutions. It is true, I say to Mr Azarkan, that there is no agreement yet on Ireland and Northern Ireland. There's just a backstop option part of that cover note, which I just outlined. Mr Azarkan then asked whether there were opportunities for Scotland. Yeah, that's not up to me. That really is a matter for the United Kingdom, with the emphasis on the V itself. The negotiations here are about the Irish border issue and not about Scotland. I think I have answered the questions about Brexit. This brings me to migration policy, on which a single question has been asked. Wouldn't it be better to decide by consensus on the redistribution of asylum seekers, Mr Bishop asked. I wouldn't want to do that. The treaties are clear. It is clear how decisions are taken in the area of justice and home affairs. That means: by qualified majority. Of course, it is of great value to do it with as much support as possible. Mr Verhoeven asked whether the revision of the Common European Asylum System could be speeded up. In general consultations on the JHA Council on 7 March, this was discussed extensively. It remains difficult to make precise statements on how long the proposals will be discussed. The Dublin proposal has not yet been agreed between the Member States. One of the sensitive aspects of this is, of course, a fairer distribution of asylum costs among the Member States. We are committed to reaching an early conclusion in the Council. We are also critical of this, because ultimately there must be added value in the overall package. The Bulgarian Presidency put forward a new compromise proposal in February this year. That, I think, is what Mr Verhoeven refers to in his three-stage approach. The essence of the proposal is to support Member States which, when compared with other Member States, have to deal with a disproportionately high number of asylum seekers. We are quite positive about this, because it is also filled with serious and compelling results. But the field of action within the Council is still divided on this proposal, with the most important being the opposition to the mechanisms. At the moment, there is no prospect of a break-up of this impasse. So much for migration. Then there is the internal market. Two questions, by Mr Bishop and Mr Mulder. Mr Bishop asked where the government actually sees the limits to the deepening of the internal market. I understand Mr Bishop's theoretical concern that there has to be a finiteness somewhere, but frankly we are far from there. I also think it is very in the Dutch interest to continue working for as long as possible to further complete the internal market for our entrepreneurs so that they can sell their products and services throughout the European Union. You can see at this point that that market is not yet functioning optimally. You can see that suddenly there has been pleasant progress, in recent months, for example, in the area of the digital single market. This automatically brings me to Mr Mulder, who also asked for it. In 2018, we want to work to complete the strategies for the Digital Single Market, but also those for the Capital Markets Union, the Energy Union and the entire Internal Market Strategy. This level of ambition was formulated by the European Council under our Presidency in June 2016. As far as we're concerned, a deal is a deal. Much progress has been made, indeed in that digital single market, as I said. For example, look at a number of regulations that will prevent customers from being treated differently from the end of this year for unjustified reasons when they buy online in other Member States. We must of course look beyond 2018; it does not stop. It is therefore important to identify a number of priorities. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, this is primarily an internal market which is equipped with further digitisation of the economy, as this is an inevitable development, further improvement of the services market and adequate enforcement. Secretary of State Keijzer sent a letter to the Chamber yesterday. Then there is the euro summit, the eurozone summit. There's a bit of an open agenda, but we'll, I think, talk about some things that we don't agree on at the moment. As we know earlier, it was planned to discuss matters such as the possible further transformation of the European Stabilisation Mechanism and the Banking Union in the direction of June. That is what we are talking about in June, so we will talk here mainly about a number of things that we do not agree on. In doing so, I will highlight the importance of convergence towards a higher level of prosperity by keeping the commitments made at Maastricht, but also in the Stability and Growth Pact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u138	I would like to come back to the internal market, its completion and its limits. What would the Prime Minister prefer: local and regional democracy or the importance of the internal market?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u139	I don't see the contradiction, so I can't answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u140	There is that contradiction. The completion of the internal market is now subject to notification. This means that if you decide on something local or regional that has to do with the internal market, for example with the location climate, you will report it to the European Commission afterwards. They're about to turn it around: you have to report it in advance before you can make a political decision at local or regional level. This is therefore deeply affected by the democratic control of municipal councils and provincial states. And the Dutch government is for that. That surprised me a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u141	You mean tender in health care?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u142	No, I'm just talking about the notification directive. For example, if a municipality wants to set limits on the number of places or nights for Airbnb, this should not be decided locally in the future; it should first go to the European Commission for approval.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u143	Then I'll look at the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u144	I assume, but I must be briefed for the second term, which is to monitor the integrity of the internal market. But I'll ask the officials to find out for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u145	Then you'll return to that in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u146	Yeah, I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u147	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u148	Yeah, but we're running into a problem. This Prime Minister says, "I don't want any more power in Brussels," but he does put full power in the market. And if Amsterdam, Pekela or Middelburg wants to decide something because it is good for its people, but first we have to ask Brussels for approval, then we have a big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u149	Let's find out what it is first. By the way, her statement doesn't add up either. I am not talking about more or less power to Brussels. I said in my speech in Berlin: you must have a Europe that focuses on a number of key tasks, and this cooperation brings added value. Our security, for example, our external border surveillance, asylum policy, but indeed the internal market. That is something that has brought much to the Netherlands, which brings a lot of other countries and has brought more prosperity to Europe. In the internal market, you will have to take steps. The internal market is far from perfect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u150	You'll get back to me in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u151	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u152	Okay, then you'll have the opportunity to say something about that. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u153	It is particularly important that there can be a contradiction between the interests of business and the interests of people. In the end, democracy should take a decision on this and not the master of the market in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u154	Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u155	There might perhaps be a contradiction between the pursuit of the completion of the internal market and the Prime Minister just said to Mr Leijten: do you mean the procurement in the care sector? For example, the space available to local authorities to organise care in their own way. The Prime Minister may still be aware of that. I would have asked him this precisely in the context of the completion of the internal market, because it is within my liking, and it is important that the conclusions, which we do not know but which will be adopted in the coming days, also refer to the borders. I mentioned the example of the procurement in the care sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u156	I'm going to give you a procedural answer to that. I got the point. That is why I had, of course, prepared it. The Minister of VWS, Hugo de Jonge, has this subject on his agenda. On 15 March, he made a commitment to the Court to send a letter on procurement in April. This is partly due to an initiative proposal, I understand, by GroenLinks. He will address bottlenecks in municipalities, the scope for interpretation of the rules and the need for genuine changes in European legislation. He also promised to inform the House of Representatives about the difference between the grant and the tender and about the so-called "open house" procedure. It is a somewhat formal answer, but in that sense there is already contact between GroenLinks and the cabinet to exchange views on the legislative initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u157	I know. On behalf of my group, I can say that we appreciate that very much and that this letter is coming, but it may be a bit avenged that we do not know... You are going... No, you are not, Mr President. The Prime Minister is going to sign some conclusions on the further completion of the internal market this weekend. We do not know what these conclusions are. Several colleagues have pointed this out. My point is: are there any limits to that? Again, I hear the Prime Minister say: the more market, the better. You can find that, but I would argue that there are places where the market can't do its job. Care could be such an area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u158	By the way, I did not say: the more market, the better. That's not what a liberal says either. The liberal movement is also very small at GroenLinks, but you have to think of parties like D66 and of course the VVD. A liberal will always say: for a strong market you also need a good market leader. It's not like the market can solve everything, really. You also need a strong government. I'm not arguing for more and more markets. The internal market in Europe is still largely confined to the physical domain, which you can grasp. I would argue that it should also take major steps in the field of services and digital. I am glad that some progress has been made in recent months. We had a summit in Tallinn on the digital single market. Then we found out that out of the 43 proposals there were only about six in progress and 37 were still on the shelf. That is not an unbridled expansion of the market. Those are all sensible ideas to be within framework what is socially acceptable, deep and fair? It also takes account of the social aspects of ensuring that the European internal market works better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u159	Finally, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u160	Thank you, Mr President. I have a very specific question about the conclusions that are to be signed. We are holding a debate here in preparation for a European summit, where conclusions are adopted on the further completion of the internal market. I would like to know from the Prime Minister whether that notion can be found later, where he just said that the market is not blissful and that you also need a market master. I would just like to quote freely from the liberal spirit of thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u161	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u162	It's beautiful, isn't it? Thank you. Is that notion reflected in those conclusions? This is important for the coming years, as we continue to talk about the completion of the internal market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u163	Not literally, but that is, of course, the whole thinking in Europe. Look, for example, at the views of France and the Netherlands, and how we have found cooperation in a number of areas. I would like to mention the example of the previous Minister for Social Affairs, Louis Asscher, who fought hard for the Detachment Directive and the Posting of Workers Directive. This is a typical example in which my party, too, has finally joined forces and has said that it is very important that equal pay is paid in equal conditions in the case of equal jobs. That is the kind of notions that I would like to raise in a moment to Mrs Ploumen's questions on this subject. So there is really no concern that even if I wanted to do so, what I do not want is to adopt some sort of unbridled pro-market conclusions. I think the problem is that it's going a little too slowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u164	I would like to continue on this theme. Indeed, the line that has been deployed from the EU is heading towards more control for the EU. The Prime Minister mentions as one of the basic starting points that it begins and ends with the Member States. That is also the concern that Mrs Leijten is so emphatically expressing: how will this European Council guarantee that it will begin and end with the Member States? How do we ensure that control and planning do not slip through our fingers like sand and will all end up on the table of the European Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u165	That is a choice in the internal market. I make this choice wholeheartedly in this cabinet, that there is a strong European internal market at Community level. That's vital for the Netherlands, isn't it? For the voters who vote for the SGP tomorrow, I wish Mr Bishop to do so in front of many entrepreneurs, is it very important that there is a strong internal market that allows them to sell their products throughout Europe? Then we don't want to say: let's stop, because we're going to do everything national again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u166	Thank you for this heartfelt wish, that there may be many. I'd like to join in on that. By the way, I assume that there will be enough entrepreneurs who will vote for the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u167	That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u168	That is a fine gesture towards the Prime Minister. Here's what's important to me. This is about a commercial interest, of course, but it is also about control. Who's gonna decide this? That's where the big concern lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u169	Yeah, but yeah. We have agreed that there is a situation without borders in which products in Europe are treated in the same way everywhere. As far as we are concerned, this also applies to services and also to the digital single market. That is a wish of the Netherlands. In Italy, for example, we would like to see the protection of professions such as notary and architects to be opened up, so that Europe collectively ensures that these types of protected professions are no longer there, so that a Dutchman can also settle there and an Italian can settle here in such subjects. That is a view of the Dutch Government, because we believe that it will increase economic growth in Europe. Those are choices you make. If you do not, you will remove the foundation from the only thing that really still works in Europe, and that is the internal market, where so many other things are not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u170	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u171	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Just a few things. As far as the euro area is concerned, I do not really have any special issues. What did Germany think of the seven-plus-one group? They are not going to send us a letter of opinion from the Netherlands on what they think of that, I say to Mr Van Rooijen. That will also depend a little on who you're calling about in Germany. Mr Mulder's question about what we are about to discuss at the European summit itself, I had already answered, namely that it seems that we will mainly talk about the issues we do not agree on and that we will return to the issues on which there is a little more convergence in the summer. I call the Banking Union. The position of the Netherlands and many other countries is well known: first risk reduction before continuing in this area. Furthermore, in the field of the ESM, the Dutch coalition agreement provides a number of guidelines. By the way, I come straight to a question from Mr Omtzigt. He asked for the documents. There aren't any, so that's easy. They won't get there either, because it's an informal discussion without conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u172	Two other questions remain open. Will the Dutch Government remain opposed to any kind of budgetary capacity and will the Prime Minister also continue to say that we will not have a euro budget? Secondly, I asked the following question. In the Netherlands we have agreed that we will get a zero measurement of the risks. At Italian banks there are a lot of risks and we are going to share those risks. Is the Netherlands going to do this zero measurement itself, or are we going to argue that we agree on zero measurement in Europe together? Are we gonna check that out? Because if we do, we might be a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u173	I understand that Mr Omtzigt also discussed that second point with the Minister for Finance. So he leaves his question in many places. That's smart, but of course we coordinate it internally, so we'll know it again. Mr Omtzigt asked the Minister for Finance to analyse the risks in the European banking sector. An overview is now being prepared at his request. Non-performing loans will also be covered. For a complete picture, we are also looking at the steps taken so far, because the banking union has, of course, been developing since 2012. In this way we can also get a picture of where there is further room for improvement. This overview will also be in line with the existing agreements of the Roadmap, the Government Agreement and the Cabinet Response of 17 November 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u174	I asked a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u175	Yeah, the other question was about that stabilisation function. Well, I think the position of the Netherlands on this is clear: we are not convinced that this is a good solution. There are far better ways to cope with shocks, namely simply stick to the Maastricht Treaty and to the SGP. Look at the Netherlands. If we were hit by an asymmetric shock with our public debt falling towards 50%, we would be able to borrow 20% or 30% on the capital market. I hope you don't have to, but it could be. If you are above 100%, as in some countries, it will of course be very complicated. In addition, private channels, such as capital markets and credit markets, can also play a major role in countering shocks. In this respect, I think you can also gain from the agreements you make on the Banking Union and on the Capital Markets Union. So we do not see such a European budget facility with such a stabilisation function.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u176	That's a clear answer. I therefore conclude that the Netherlands will speak out against this in such an informal discussion, which is not the subject of a report. On the first point, I really do have a question. We are working out how we are going to do this zero measurement in the Netherlands, but it would be so much better if European countries agreed on what the risks are and how we measure them. Is there an attempt in Europe to agree together on how to measure these risks? The euro summit is, of course, the forum for this. We said we're gonna take those risks down. Is the Prime Minister prepared to simply include in the discussion that this better be a common path? We must prevent everyone from doing this in a different way. Yeah, say Italy, I've brought the risks down. Yes, the Netherlands says that, but we measure that differently, so we do not think so. In a few years, we'll just get in trouble. So is that what the Prime Minister wants to bring to that discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u177	No, of course the Minister for Finance in the eurogroup really has to do that. And that is where Mr Omtzigt put it. We're doing things really impractically in all kinds of places right now. I am so kind as to answer the question which Mr Omtzigt has literally put to Mr Hoekstra van Financiën. So let's use that channel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u178	Mr. Overzigt, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u179	The impression is given here that it is not about this. The leaders of the euro countries, so President Macron, Chancellor Merkel, Prime Minister Rutte...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u180	Yeah, all countries, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u181	I don't know all 19 of them by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u182	There are also job vacancies here and there, as in Slovakia.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u183	Yes. All these leaders are talking about the future of the euro. Then the central issue of risk reduction will be discussed, won't it? If that is not the case, I am beginning to worry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u184	That too remains in the Eurogroup, as Mr Omtzigt knows. As I just said, this euro summit is not about that. It talks about the things we disagree about. I'm just gonna say it briefly. The things on which we do have convergence, namely the further steps in the banking union, the further transformation of the European stabilisation mechanism, are foreseen for June. There is a task for the Finance Ministers, for example, to look at a wish that we and many others have made, namely that you first have the necessary risk reduction before further steps, for example in the area of a common fiscal backstop for the Single Resolution Fund or the whole issue of a European deposit guarantee scheme. I think Mr Omtzigt is referring to that. That lies with the finance ministers. They will hopefully come to the summit in June with shared views on this. So that's really on that level. My suggestion would therefore be to discuss this with the Minister of Finance, because that is really not on the agenda of this summit. Then there's the COSAC report. There I also have a job for Mr Omtzigt himself, so I have changed my mind. We are very pleased with the active commitment of the Dutch Parliament. The Netherlands is one of the most active Member States in the Council in terms of strengthening transparency. Other Member States are less ambitious. But here we really need parliamentary diplomacy. So I need Mr. Omtzigt here. So he's really gonna have to help me, too, and others here, to get this done. This is a parliamentary initiative that I and the government wholeheartedly support. We also insist that it be discussed in Council. The Bulgarian President has now placed it on the agenda of the Council working group for the second half of April. Minister Blok will give further information to the Chamber. It's all going very slowly, that's all I'm doing with Mr Omtzigt once, but really, I can't fix this. I really need Mr Omtzigt here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u185	Mr Omtzigt, you are being called upon!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u186	Yes, I am being called upon to leave 25 parliaments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u187	Yeah, sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u188	I can see the Prime Minister thinking that he'll be here 25 times absent. I see why he finds that attractive!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u189	No, ho!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u190	But all the crazy on a stick. I am glad to hear a date for the first time now, because it is indeed going very slowly. I myself had even greater terms of strength for that, because three months after 26 parliaments wrote a letter, it has not even happened! May I take this as a promise or should I table a motion on it which we know, preferably before Monday if we can, when it will be on the agenda? We can only approach another parliament if we can say that on 23 April it is in the RAZ, it is in the European Council and then it is in the Ecofin. Because if you just write a letter and in general...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u191	Clear, Mr. Overzigt. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u192	No, really, it's not that easy. Mr Omtzigt and I are pulling on the same side here, but this really is a parliamentary initiative. I said that the Presidency would put this on the agenda of the Council working group for the second half of April. As soon as we know more, as soon as there is more information, I do not know if that will be before Monday, because we are not going to discuss it. Stef Blok, the Foreign Minister, will inform the Chamber more about the process. But we really have a problem here, and that is that we are not going to make this happen without parliamentary diplomacy. No way. That's my valuation. So that's not gonna solve the governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u193	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u194	Sometimes we need parliaments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u195	Yes. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u196	That is what we are going to do, but it is an initiative towards the Council and towards the Commission. If the Council does not say when it will discuss it, it will prove to us right away that it is really not transparent; we do not only know the content, we do not even know the moment of discussion. Then we're really far down. Then we need the government to keep us informed when it is being discussed, and also a week and a half in advance. Last time, that was 24 hours in advance. We really couldn't call anymore. And there it went.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u197	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u198	That's what we're gonna do. However, if the Council is to take this up, there must be pressure in those other countries too. There, too, we must turn to the interrupting microphone to ensure that pressure is also put on their governments. We can feel it and we can find it. But really, this is a co-production. I do not quite feel that Mr Omtzigt fully realizes his side of the job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u199	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u200	No, no, no, Mr. Ommzigt. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u201	Fortunately, the entire Chamber does this, even both the First and the Second Chamber. It is our initiative, although supported by the government, and we will certainly continue to do our job. But what I do not understand, and perhaps the Minister can explain, is that you are asking the European Council and that there is simply no answer. That's weird, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u202	Yeah, it happens all the time. Yeah, sorry, that's not my call. In the end, the Presidency must set things up and organise things. There are a lot of points that are fixed. I didn't just say that in Europe things aren't so easy and so smooth. This Chamber can assume that we are very pleased that the Dutch Parliament is so active on this issue and that the Netherlands is one of the most transparent Member States in terms of cooperation between parliament and government. But if you want to help us as a government to keep pressure on it in the Council, then the other countries must also put pressure on their governments through their parliaments. And I'm sorry, it's not gonna happen. It's not happening enough. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u203	This is your final remark. You also have a second term, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u204	I don't know if it's the last one. I did not receive an answer to my question. We heard the call. We're gonna do a lot more. We will. But it is very strange that when parliaments make a request to the European Council, they simply do not get an answer. Surely that shouldn't be possible in the proportions that exist? How does the Prime Minister feel about the fact that there's just no answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u205	I agree that's crazy, but then the question is what I can do about it. Then I say very little, because what is happening in the European Council and certainly in all these Council configurations is to a large extent in the hands of the Presidency. That also depends on the pressure that is felt from countries to really settle things. So I'm gonna play the ball back after all. We're gonna have to do more together here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u206	That's another repeat. Let me take a look at Mr Van Rooijen. Is he gonna say anything? No, I suggest you move on. I think you were headed for a rounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u207	I come to Mrs Leijten's point about consulting experts on confidential EU documents. The letter of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of 23 December 2016 deals with this. The wish expressed by the Court to be able to consult experts in view of confidential documents has been fulfilled. The access of experts to limited documents has thus already been made possible. The letter lays down the conditions for this. By the way, before I get any follow-up questions, I would like to suggest that we do not discuss this further next Monday either, which is a cautious suggestion, but during the general discussion on EU information provision with Minister Blok on 12 April. He looks forward to that debate. Then there's the internetapotheques. The German government agreement states that the German Government intends to prohibit the online sale of prescription-based medicines. This seems to be contrary to the free movement of services. During the general consultations for the General Affairs Council last week, Minister Blok promised to convey the concerns of the cabinet to the German Government. That will happen on Thursday. Then he's in Berlin. I also refer to the VAO Business Life Policy of 5 April, in which Secretary of State Keijzer for Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs will address the Veldman motion on this subject. Mr Mulder of the VVD also asked about the participation of the Chamber in the negotiations on trade agreements. It's important that this happens. We are also here for transparency throughout the negotiation process. We are here on the compass of the former Foreign Trade Minister. The Dutch commitment is to share all mandates with the Chamber. It is good that the Commission has published its proposal for guidelines with Australia and New Zealand. During the preparation of the Council, during the general consultations on this subject, the discussion with the Government can continue on the Dutch position. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation Sigrid Kaag will be happy to discuss this with the Chamber. In addition, the publications of the regular reports on the progress of the negotiations will of course be provided. Mr Omtzigt asked for a new letter to the Chamber on the Dutch cabinet commitment to the Multiannual Financial Framework. We discussed them during the debate on 22 February. The government's commitment, with the Omtzigt, is indeed to modernise the new MFF ambitiously and to avoid an increase in payments, including through reform; Mr Omtzigt asked for existing programmes such as Cohesion Policy and the common agricultural policy. The Court will shortly receive a written appreciation of the Commission's communication on the new multi-annual financial framework, the new Multiannual Financial Framework of 14 February. Of course, you will also have the cabinet response to the proposal for a new MFF which will be published on 2 May. Then Poland and the rule of law. Commissioner Timmermans will update on this in the General Affairs Council today. The Council's report will be sent to the Chamber shortly. Poland has so far had time to give a formal response to the Commission's recommendations. It is now up to the Commission to assess the content. Once again, you will be further informed in today's RAZ report. As you know, we support the Commission and, like other Member States, we have called on Poland and the Commission to find a solution through the dialogue that is now under way. That is also the answer to the question of Article 7. Then there is the European pension fund supervisor, EIOPA, and the pan-European pension plan. I haven't heard anything else about the European supervisor. The Ministers for Finance and Social Affairs will return to that point. The general principle is that pension policy is a national matter. The proposal for the pan-European pension plan is still under discussion in the Council Working Group. The main point remains that this should not affect the functioning of the existing Dutch system and the second pillar and that the national competences of Member States should be respected, inter alia, for contract law, tax law and social law. We will continue to work to highlight the four main points of the BNC sheet in the Council working groups on the PEPP proposal. Then steel, an important subject. How do we prevent escalation? Is the European Council going to take a decision on this? As you know, these conversations are going on. I also share Mr Verhoeven's view on this point that it is very important that we, as the European Union, act together. In the meantime, the European Commission is preparing a counter-response along a number of lines, which we have also shared with the Chamber. The European Council is expected to adopt conclusions on this issue. It is important, on the one hand, to send out a clear signal to the United States, but on the other hand, to continue to put out as much of a hand as possible to continue working together on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u208	I see some Members on the Interrupt Microphone, but I would suggest that you answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u209	I see Mr Omtzigt standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u210	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u211	He probably has a question about the pan-European pension plan, but that is not on the agenda for this European Council. I don't know any more than this either. If Mr Omtzig wants to know more, my request is to discuss this with the Ministers for Social Affairs and Finance. I'll go ahead, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Leijten asked about my speech. Thank you for that. A deal is a deal, a limit. The fact is that sometimes problems can be better dealt with jointly than separately. I just mentioned them: cross-border crime, climate change, migration, the internal market. There are, however, a number of principles which I have also mentioned in my speech in Berlin. Mrs Ploumen asked about a number of issues which are also related to the Ploumen/Asscher motion on combating premium hopping. During the debate prior to the December European Council, the Chamber tabled that motion. The request to the government was to continue the European coalition against social dumping and to report on progress. In the annex to the annotated agenda for the Social Policy, Employment, Health and Consumer Affairs Council of 15 March, the Minister for Social Affairs discussed bonus hopping and the maintenance of the A1 declarations. This annex was discussed during the general consultation. I think that is what we are going to do with this justified motion. Furthermore, the social pillar has been called for at all, also in connection with the informal summit in Sweden. We are, as we know, in favour of strengthening cross-border cooperation in terms of labour mobility and combating cross-border fraud. Within the Benelux countries, we have also taken a number of initiatives to this end. We do not, of course, need large, new European agencies, but the proposal for a working authority will not be there at the moment; we are not going to decide on it at this summit, either, with regard to its added value in relation to the current structures and the tasks, powers, structure and suspension of such an authority. For our part, it will have to focus on cross-border cooperation, and it will not have to come up with all kinds of new rules, but above all take a very pragmatic approach. Along these lines, Wouter Koolmees, the Minister for Social Affairs, is also working on it. Mr. Chairman. Then a response to the appointment of Selmayr, the former Chief of Staff of the President of the European Commission, as Secretary-General of the European Commission was requested. There was a clear request from the Chamber. Minister Blok said last week that it is important to follow a careful procedure in the case of appointments. The Netherlands has also made this clear today in the General Affairs Council, including an appeal to the Commission to participate fully in the European Parliament's investigation. In response to this, the Commission has said today that it will cooperate fully in this investigation. A hearing will take place in the European Parliament on 27 March with responsible Commissioner Oettinger. Today, the European Parliament is submitting the written questions to the Commission. So the glove's been picked up. The European Parliament is, of course, also the Commission's auditor. I think it's good to finish that now. Mr Verhoeven asked about the freedom of the press in Malta. That investigation is currently under way. There are no indications so far that the investigation has not been properly conducted. We're waiting for the results of that investigation. On 12 March last, Commissioner Timmermans, in one of the European Parliament's committees, stated that the European Commission would remain in talks with the Maltese authorities and that the Commission would continue to press those Maltese authorities to continue the investigation into justice. Then, of course, there is the very serious issue of freedom of the press in Slovakia with the murder of the Slovak journalist and his partner a few weeks ago. That was a big shock. That is why a thorough investigation is needed into this crime and it is also very important. The Slovak authorities have now said that they give the highest priority to this investigation. It has, of course, also had far-reaching political repercussions, as we have seen today in the decision of the Slovak President in response to the possible accession of a new Slovak government. This is currently at least being dealt with at the highest levels in Slovakia. I think we should keep pressure on that, but today, at the moment, we have no reason to say that that is going wrong. Looks like there's a lot of attention to it, especially from the president's point of view. I very much agree with Mr Verhoeven, Mrs Ploumen and others that this is essential. It is not on the agenda for this European Council, but everyone can count on me to address it wherever it is. Then, of course, there was the question about the reflection on the EU-Turkey declaration of March 2016. Mr Van Ojik asked for that. I would come back to that in second term, but I can do that right away. That statement is part of the EU's integrated approach to migration. A progress report from the Commission on the implementation of the entire migration agenda, including the EU-Turkey Declaration, was published last week. Of course, it is also often discussed in the Chamber, with the Secretary of State for Justice and Security in general discussions on the JHA Council, but also with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. So I think it is good now that the Commission's report is being properly discussed here in the Chamber. That's why I just asked for my official assistance: hasn't anything recently appeared? Yeah, it turns out so. The draft conclusions of the European Council are visible to the Chamber at the Delegates Portal, I say to Mr Van Ojik. Those draft conclusions shall be updated in the run-up to the European Council. The first version was published on 12 March. The most up-to-date version was published yesterday, on 19 March. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions. I really haven't prepared for the questions about Unilever and the dividend tax. That seems to me to be something Mrs Ploumen can discuss with the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u212	I would like to come back to the issue of social affairs. I hear the Prime Minister say that it is on the agenda, but we are not going to adopt any conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u213	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u214	I just happen to see a nice background briefing or note appearing in my e-mail, which I believe came from the press officer of the European Council. It provides for conclusions on the implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights. That is this beautiful, or rather not so beautiful, propaganda form in a nutshell, with some twenty principles and rights that would be essential for the functioning of the labour market. I would like to know what agreements will be reached in the European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u215	I can only say what the European commitment is. It is well known that we are in favour of strengthening the social dimension, but we must take account of the fact that social policy is primarily a national matter. We are particularly committed to the enforcement of the rules and the prevention of fraud and abuse. To this end, it is important that there is enhanced cooperation between Member States and, in particular, their inspection services. We welcome the strengthening of cross-border cooperation in the field of labour mobility and thus also the fight against cross-border fraud. You can see that steps have now been taken, for example with the Platform Black Work. In this respect, the Labour Authority has the potential to play a complementary role and support cooperation, but from that postulate. As I have just said, we will be assessing a possible proposal to this end, which is not now in the interests of the European Parliament, thus also along those lines, with regard to value added and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u216	Thanks, but that's not an answer to the question. What the Prime Minister has just told me, I could have read in the paper on the European social pillar. What agreements are being made on the implementation of this social pillar, of the twenty principles and rights set out in it? What agreements are being reached at the European summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u217	What I have just said is that I do not think there is any agreement on this at all. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There's no agreement on that. Are we sure? I do not think it will happen, and it is also said that this is not the case. Despite the beautiful background, the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u218	Mrs Maeijer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u219	I think this is really weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u220	You'd like to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u221	No, I absolutely don't want that. The Prime Minister is well aware of this, but I would also like to hear exactly what the Prime Minister is going to do at the European summit, because it is true that there are conclusions to be drawn on the implementation of the European social pillar. So again, what conclusions are foreseen on the implementation of those twenty rights and principles in that pillar?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u222	I said "finally," but that's not exactly true, Mrs. Maeijer. I'll give you an opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u223	I'll have a little more official update just in case. I do not think that is the case on these twenty points. That's out of the question anyway. There are also no texts on the European Labour Authority and on that idea; all of this is for later. I have just outlined the review framework that the Netherlands will be looking at, and I have outlined to you how we look at European social policy at all: that is, as far as we are concerned, always a national matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u224	I said "finally," Mrs Maeijer, but that was not quite the case. So you still had the opportunity, but you can also seize the opportunity if you have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u225	I still have a question about Unilever, the prayer book and the dividend tax. I know the Prime Minister as a man who likes to keep his affairs in order and usually also has a good overview. From the newspaper reports I certainly get the impression that the Prime Minister himself is involved in the conversation about whether or not to establish Unilever's headquarters in the Netherlands. I understand that he may not know some details now, but I had rather general questions about that prayerbook: who gave that instruction, how could we know nothing about it and indeed have made a commitment to Unilever's top man about abolishing the dividend tax without having been discussed with the House of Representatives? That seems to me to be something for a Secretary of State for General Affairs, because this is far above all matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u226	I have really knocked the agenda of the European Council on all sides, looked at it and shook it again to see if any conclusions are foreseen on the issue of the transition from Unilever to the Netherlands. That is not the case. I didn't prepare for that either. This really seems to me to be a matter for Mrs Ploumen to discuss with Mr Wiebes, Minister Wiebes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u227	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u228	We can think differently about that, because of course it's about the Brexit. One of the problems of the matter is, of course, that the Chamber was not aware of that prayer book. As long as the Chamber is not allowed to have questions answered, we cannot decide with which minister we can best hold the debate. So we're gonna keep going in circles a little bit. I think that is a pity, because abolishing the dividend tax is a major measure, which also applies to a coalition partner such as the Christian Union. What did Mr Segers say? A melon in the throat. I think that's a lot worse than a bone. So I will certainly come back to it. This is also really relevant in the context of the Brexit, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u229	A melon is water-based, so it goes away pretty fast. I don't know. I think it's more annoying to have a bone. I have two more points on which I can serve the Chamber. Firstly, on the conclusions on social that are now foreseen, as they are in the Delegates Portal, I think. I'm gonna translate it into Dutch because otherwise I'm gonna get into a fight with some MPs. Implementation will be monitored with respect for the competences of the Union and the Member States. This is also what the Netherlands considers important, namely that social policy is primarily also national policy. We ask the Council to look at the initiatives presented by the Commission, for example on the European Labour Authority. No further decisions are taken on this. Then there is the notification directive and the three-month waiting period. I told Mrs Leijten that I would come back to that in the second term, but I have it here now. The proposal for a notification directive should identify new public requirements in the Member States, such as permits, establishment requirements or requirements restricting the freedom to provide services. I think it is important that new rules, whether they come from the Empire or from the municipalities, which can hinder the internal market, are indeed notified. That is the price we pay for membership of the internal market. I was just saying something about it, but this is a little more detailed. That is what we agreed with each other ten years ago in the Services Directive. I welcome this new procedure, so that the previous agreement is clear. As things stand at present, governments, including municipalities, must in time let us know what they intend to do. I think it's important that that period is not too long. If others do something, we must be able to react. This is also important for the Netherlands because of the internal market. Negotiations between the Council and the European Parliament are ongoing. The European Parliament wants to extend the waiting period, but the Council is opposed to that. I already thought that this would be the answer, and that is now being confirmed. If you have an internal market, it is therefore in itself important to keep each other informed of things that may conflict with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u230	I now allow an interruption, Mrs Leijten, because the Prime Minister had promised to come back to this. You will have the opportunity to ask a question and you will also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u231	As a local or provincial government, you must first ask Brussels for approval. While waiting for that approval, you can't make any decisions. According to the Prime Minister, is this not in any way a restriction on local democracy, in which solutions can be found to problems in shopping streets and in business areas? For example, a simple language requirement for people performing the work must already be submitted to the European Commission. In what way is this promoting the internal market?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u232	It doesn't apply to everything, but if it can be a problem and lead to obstacles to the internal market, then it makes sense for you to do so. That is why we are a member of the internal market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u233	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks. You're distracted by Mrs Ploumen, but you're really next.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u234	Thank you, Mr President. I know that the Prime Minister will meet another formidable opponent tonight in a debate he still has to have outside this Chamber, so I will be brief. We're still looking at the Delegates Portal. Oh, look, the colleague and the officials found it anyway! There's a big cheering now in the back of the room. It will undoubtedly be up to Mr Omtzigt's digibetic qualities and myself that we have not been able to find it so easy so far. But we're getting a course, if I understand correctly. We have had an extensive exchange of views on the internal market and its borders. We'll do that a lot more. Both enlargement and borders are of great importance. I have a motion, too. The Prime Minister said about the EU-Turkey deal that there was an interim report to the Chamber last week. I usually see these intermediate reports, and indeed we sometimes talk about them with the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. But what I'm asking is actually something else. I am asking for a broader evaluation at European Commission level two years after the EU-Turkey deal has been concluded. That's what my motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas under the EU-Turkey deal, the EU will contribute EUR 3 billion twice to the reception of refugees in Turkey;]] [[Whereas the deal has major consequences for the fate of refugees fleeing or fleeing Syria;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the European Commission for a comprehensive review of the EU-Turkey deal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1310]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u235	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group remains left with a number of questions. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the main reason for the establishment of Unilever's head office in the Netherlands is the market and the protection structures of the Netherlands and that Unilevertopman Polman has indicated that there is little difference between the Netherlands and Great Britain in terms of taxes, now that the Netherlands intends to abolish the dividend tax;]] [[noting that neither the contents of the bidbook nor the content and scope of the cabinet's discussions with Unilever are known to the Chamber and there is therefore uncertainty as to whether or not there is a commitment to abolish the dividend tax, as stated by Unilevertopman Polman;]] [[considers that the proposed decision to abolish the dividend tax is still under discussion with the Court;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of its commitment to Unilever to abolish the dividend tax, and to send the bidbook to the Chamber by means of an exchange of letters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1311]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u236	Suppose there's a breakdown on the shopping street and you want to do something about it as a municipality. Suppose you want to make language demands, because it's safe for the construction site. Suppose you want to do something about too much Airbnb rental or too long stay in your city, making it unliveable. Then, when the notification directive is adopted, you will first have to ask the Commission for permission, as if it were an internal market in which Athens and Amsterdam are equal. Then the bureaucrats in Brussels will decide whether to make a decision as a city council or provincial states. And in those three to six months, you can't make a democratic decision anymore. This is the future of the European Union, according to our Prime Minister. This is exactly what he presented in Berlin. The internal market before local democracy. The internal market before, even if it harms people's interests. Business before all! It's weird. We're gonna talk about this, you bet! Next year, as far as the European Commission is concerned, there must be a European agency and a European working authority. That's gonna cost 50 million. More than 100 people are coming to work. What are they all gonna do? Co-ordinate a little? Well, that sounds a little more like it. There is a retention of treatment in this Chamber and a subsidiarity test is still being carried out, so the Dutch Government cannot agree to this at all. It is being discussed at the summit, and that is why this motion is more than justified in this debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas social policy and its enforcement are national matters;]] [[noting that the European Commission's proposal for a European Labour Authority draws on powers by stating that this agency will have the task of ensuring that national authorities comply with European rules;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to the proposal for a European Labour Authority,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1312]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u237	Mr. Chairman. I have one final comment to make. If 26 parliaments write a letter to the Heads of State or Government of Europe, you can assume that will be on the agenda. Of course, we will help the Prime Minister through parliamentary pressure in other countries, but I find it very strange that you do not get that on the agenda when you write a letter properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u238	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u239	Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's pretty high up now. Is Mrs. Leijten that long? First thanks to the Prime Minister for his reply. I've got a few points. As far as Russia is concerned, I understand the Prime Minister's explanation, taking into account the lessons of the Davids Commission. We must be careful not to hide behind it completely, so that we do not know what is going on or just say that we do not have an independent information position, ready. That was a bit of the feeling I got, but thank you for this answer. Once with the acceleration of digitalisation in the internal market. Luckily, I've been hearing the Prime Minister about that a lot lately. It is always polite as a far-from-my-bed show, but that is so important for the future growth power of the Dutch economy. I've said a lot about that before, so I'll leave it at that. Then, of course, my promise to Mrs Leijten. I have a text in front of me, especially for Mrs Leijten, on the European Labour Authority. D66 welcomes cooperation between national labour inspectorates, for example to combat cross-border bogus structures effectively. That is not going well right now, so perhaps the new European agency can assist. It could also be better to share information between these inspections. D66 does not want to go to a European labour inspectorate. For this we have the Dutch Labour Inspectorate, in line with my more general answer, that we want to limit the priorities and the transfer of certain powers to the main themes. However, I believe that Mrs Leijten has a special talent to increase, exaggerate or blow up all EU proposals or activities, often selective and semi-actual. I would like to call that a form of hyperbola policy which is detrimental to the European Union's support. That's how I want to end my term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u240	I thought: this is the second term, we are completing, but Mr Verhoeven saved everything in the second term for Mrs Leijten. Mrs. Leijten, where do you start?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u241	When it comes to political exaggeration and frames, we know that Mr Verhoeven is mastering that very well. I am simply doing a good study of what is being proposed and I am analysing the route that the European Commission is taking to get a grip on the Member States. If I analyse that, I will not only draw it out of context, but the trade unions, for example, also say that they are not in favour of it. It seems as if there is a catalyst behind making this work very common in other countries, and we also know how detrimental that can be. When it comes to cross-border problems, there is already an exchange, for example with truck drivers. There are opportunities for that. That does not require this working authority. If D66 recognises that cooperation is good, then there is no need to put 150 people in an office to supervise 27 Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u242	Mr Verhoeven, a brief response, without inciting Mrs Leijten again. Can you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u243	I will make a brave attempt again, but I really think that this plan, which I have just read, is limited to intensifying cooperation and better coordinating and organising a number of collaborations between national inspections, in order to counter the sham constructions and other undermining of people's working position, which are often referred to by the SP. That seems to me to be a common wish that we have. Mrs. Leijten says she doesn't want a separate office with 150 people. I think that these 150 people can solve a lot of problems, in good consultation with those sovereign labour inspections, I say in her direction. I see she's about to laugh when I say the word "sovereign," so I won't do it again, but I mean it. They can therefore continue to function in an independent way and that is also what D66 wants. Nor does the plan say that they will be replaced by one major European labour inspectorate. That's not gonna happen. D66 doesn't want that; no one wants that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u244	Mrs Leijten, you may speak at the end, but you do not have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u245	In 2005, there was a major debate on the European Constitution. There was a referendum, something that D66 was very much in favour of back then. Then it was said to the SP 'you do scare-making, you take everything out of context', because we, with arguments about articles in the Treaty, recommended voting against. And if you look at where we stand now, with a political Commission taking over more and more the helm and building a defence force, then all our analyses of that time have proved to be true. I hope that it will not happen with this European Labour Authority. In fact, I hope it doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u246	You've made your point, I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u247	I will be there with Mrs Leijten...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u248	...and you too, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u249	Excuse me. I will work with Mrs Leijten on this, at least in line with what I have just said. Mrs Leijten is right. Both in the referendum on the European Constitution and in the referendum on the Ukraine Treaty and in the referendum on the Intelligence and Security Services Act, the SP has indeed overly frightened people. The SP shouldn't have done that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u250	Well, you had a little approach. I thought, "Now it's gonna be okay." No, this can't be, no, no, no. Mr Verhoeven, you'd started so positively and you'd end up with a sneer anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u251	Well, because Mrs. Leijten is gonna be sitting right back in her own right. I'm gonna put out a hand twice, and she's gonna sit all in her own right. She's saying again that all her predictions have come true. The predictions didn't come true. Ukraine has not become a member of the European Union, but the SP has always said so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u252	You're making it worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u253	So it's just not good to put it like that. So that's what I'm up against.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u254	Mrs Leijten, you will no longer have the floor. Mrs. Leijten, a personal fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u255	We'd do scare-making. We just analyzed what's inside. This also applies to the drag law, on which Mr Verhoeven actually wrote the analysis for us. The fact that the advocates say you'd get terrorism without the tow law is also quite a piece of scary work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u256	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen, on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u257	Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear: we are not talking about the European Labour Inspectorate but about the European Labour Authority. I have signed Mrs Leijten's motion because we are afraid that there will be a disturbing train about social policy. I have with me what Juncker said in the State of the Union about the greater influence on the Member States, but I am not going to read it out. It is an extensive text, of more than one page. This includes, for example, a number of operational tasks, but also social security coordination. Then we'll be very careful. Mr. Chairman. Finally, for the sake of clarity, I would like to say that, unlike Mr Omtzig's comment on pensions, I did not talk about the PEPP, but thank you for the Prime Minister's reply to Mr Omtzig. I only referred to a message on PensionsEurope of 15 March that I am going to have to make the exact Dutch pension funds pay a contribution to the European regulator EIOPA, because the Member States and Europe want to pay less. Our pension funds have expressed concern about the proposed additional powers of EIOPA. I would like to know from the Prime Minister whether he shares our concerns that EIOPA will immediately interfere with our pension funds through the contribution. If you first pay contributions for the supervisor, you get the supervisor for free, for powers you don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u258	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I now give the floor to Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, the European social pillar came from Brussels. Last week, the European Commission again presented all kinds of proposals leading to far-reaching interference in our social policy. That's what the next motion for a resolution is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas social policy is and should remain a national competence;]] [[having noted that the European Commission has once again brought forward many far-reaching proposals in this area;]] [[calls on the government to actively oppose EU interference with our social policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Maeijer and Mr De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1313]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u260	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the government for the answers. This is indeed one of those European summits with 25 topics. I also understand that if you have to discuss this with 28 countries, the Prime Minister will not even raise all the issues we want. I'll give you a few things anyway. One. The PEPP. I will give him to tell his colleagues in Finance and Social Affairs that the sheet has not been accepted here, but there is a room for manoeuvre not to agree with the PEPP. That is fundamentally different, because we believe that it cannot be achieved without hitting the second and third pillars. The first signatory was the VVD. Two. Around Afrin on Thursday, I really expect an answer from the Foreign Minister on whether the Free Syrian Army that is now fighting in Afrin has been supported with Dutch tax money in the past or whether other countries in the European Union have supported it or are still supporting it. That could explain why Turkey is not being convicted. Three. The draft conclusions. The information on what they're about to conclude was in the EU database, but that's exactly the problem. In that database you can search at "meeting." That is what Mr Van Ojik and I are doing. We are looking for draft conclusions at the European Council meeting. No, they weren't linked to that as a document. That's like looking in an unordered archive. So it's really nice that they gave us the piece number. Yeah, if you're looking for piece number and you know the name of the piece, you can find it. But if you don't know the name of the piece, you can't find it. And that is exactly the problem that we have with European documents every time. I would like to admit that I am sometimes a digibeet, but here it would have been nice if it had just been with the pieces of this meeting. There are around 30 meetings in the EU every day. I can't check all those documents. You shouldn't expect that from me either. You secretly do that when I look at it that way. And then we come to the problem of that transparency initiative of ours. We don't know when it's gonna happen. And when it's on the agenda, there's no telling how the countries feel about it. If we do not know what the countries have brought into the sitting, the parliaments cannot exert pressure. That is the essence of the problem: that they do not write down what they voted and that they do not write down what they said. So they can reject it without knowing who said no. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the initiative on transparency of 26 European Parliaments after three months has not yet been discussed in substance in the RAZ, the European Council and the Ecofin/eurogroup;]] [[calls on the government to indicate by Monday where and when this report and the European Ombudsman's report will be presented in the coming weeks;]] [[invites the Government also to forward a detailed discussion report to the Chamber for each of these discussions, including the positions and voting behaviour of individual countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1314]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u261	Mr. Chairman. My final comment concerns the appointment of Mr Selmayr. I would like to thank the government for bringing it up. I couldn't find it in the RAZ report. But if the Commission has said that it will cooperate fully, that is at least a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u262	Thank you. I'll see if the Prime Minister can answer directly. That is not the case. He needs a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u263	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u264	Mr. Chairman. On the subject of EIOPA and PEPP, I have already said in the first term that I will pass that on to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u265	And the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u266	Agreed, including the Minister of Finance. Well, here's how it's gonna be. The Minister for Social Affairs, the Minister for Finance and the Secretary of State for Finance, on both subjects. It is not on the agenda for this European Council, so I do not have the efficient level of detail to discuss it here. I'll get on the motions. Mr Van Ojik's motion on item No. 1310 I am not going to recommend it, because I have already said that the Commission regularly makes interim reports. I've already reported that the mid-term report is here now. We're gonna discuss it with the Chamber. So I do not see the added value of a separate evaluation. So I advise against this motion. I need to take a look at the list. May I still discourage motions? Yeah, you can still do that. I also advise against the Ploumen/Van Ojik motion in part No. 1311, for the reason I just mentioned. It has nothing to do with this European Council. No, I would really discuss it with the Minister of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u267	Mrs Ploumen, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u268	Imagine if I tabled the motion in a plenary debate with the Minister for Economic Affairs. Will you then provide her with a positive opinion? Is your objection merely procedural?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u269	I can't judge the motion right now. You really need to talk to the Minister of Economic Affairs about how he would react. I have now prepared myself for the European Council. Again, I've been knocking and looking at the conclusions on all sides, on all portals and with numbers and codes, but I couldn't find Unilever in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u270	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u271	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 1312. No decision is foreseen at all. This is premature. We just come up with a response to a BNC sheet. Then we will also have further discussions with Minister Koolmees, who is also very closely involved. So I advise against this motion. It's untimely. There's no proposal for an ELISA at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u272	Well, there's definitely a proposal for an ELISA. That was done on March 13th. It's very concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u273	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u274	It's definitely on the agenda. It's under discussion. As far as the SP is concerned, the Netherlands must state that we are not waiting for this. If I change the operative part and say that the Dutch Government is sending out the message that we are not waiting for this, can the Prime Minister get away with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u275	No, because we just have a procedure for that. There's gonna be a BNC chip. That's where we deal with it. Then you will discuss that with Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u276	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u277	I do not recommend the Maeijer/De Jong motion in part No. 1313.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u278	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u279	No, no, no. Sorry. Not on Mrs Leijten's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u280	Okay, then I'm gonna make a procedural point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u281	Yes, so you have a procedural point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u282	Mr President, I have just found the draft conclusions that were untraceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u283	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u284	I am not allowed to quote from it, but the words 'European Labour Authority' are mentioned in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u285	I even just read here that it was in there. I have read literally in the first period that the European Council is asking the Council to examine or discuss further the Commission's proposals on a number of issues, including this issue. I mean "to examine," so in the English sense. We have therefore been asked to carry out further studies on this issue. That's what's going on right now. This European Council is therefore not going to give an opinion on its desirability. All we are doing is giving a task to the Council to weigh up the European Commission's proposals. That's how it works. It's coming back here from a BNC chip. I shall now move on to Mrs Maeijer's and Mr De Jong's motion for a resolution. 1313 on social policy. That motion is incorrect, because there is a shared competence on this issue. As far as I'm concerned, it's something we have to look at on a case-by-case basis. So I advise against this motion. That is what I am doing with the motion in part No. 1314. I have just explained this in detail in my first term. The state of play is set out in the latest report of the General Affairs Council. I told you that the Bulgarian Presidency intends to bring this up in April. It is, of course, impossible for us to report the positions and voting behaviour of individual countries in a letter to the Chamber. I can't do that at all. That is really contrary to all the agreements within the European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u286	A brief question, Mr. Overzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u287	And this is exactly where we get the round. At the moment, parliaments should not know what their governments are voting for in Europe, even if it is legislation or our proposals. Now we are making a proposal: we need to know this vote because the European Court of Justice has said that parliaments and citizens have the right to know what their governments decide. And now the Prime Minister says: because we don't know at the moment, we don't have to say it and we can wipe the proposal to make it more transparent without telling who wiped it off the table. I couldn't have thought of a better circular reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u288	I don't know who wins the exam here, because I'm hearing a circular reasoning right now. I'm maintaining my advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u289	Then we have come to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Members of Parliament, the staff and the people who have followed the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-7.u290	The motions tabled will be put to the vote on Thursday. Tomorrow we will not have a meeting in connection with the municipal elections. I'm closing the meeting.
