ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u1	We will continue with the debate on benefit fraud by Polish migrant workers. The Minister for Social Affairs and Employment has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their questions. We are talking today about fraud involving WW benefits by migrant workers. If you will allow me, Mr President, I will begin with a brief general introduction and follow up with a few blocks of answers so that Members will know when I will come back to the questions they have asked. We discussed this twice during oral Question Time. Last week, on October 1st, I sent a comprehensive letter and filed the investigations for confidential inspection in your Chamber. Yesterday, I also sent a second letter following a new News hour broadcast on the question of whether unemployment could be blamed. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say that fraud involving benefits is unacceptable. It undermines solidarity and support for our social security system. I agree with many of the Members of Parliament who have said this during their contribution to the first term. The images we've seen over the past few years are serious. I understand very well that people are getting very angry about this. As I wrote earlier in my letter, looking back, the handling of this fraud did not have sufficient urgency. That's gotta be better, and it's got my full attention. That's why I made agreements with the UWV to deal with this WW fraud more firmly immediately. First of all, the UWV is going to check more intensively whether someone is in the Netherlands to look for work. We're stepping up the address check. In addition, there will be more control over the intermediaries that make fraud possible. If necessary, more personal contact with the beneficiaries, possibly with an interpreter. The UWV and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment are also working on the registration of intermediaries. On Monday, the UWV will start the so-called big data research. This specifically looks at patterns, for example that someone works for six months, then has three months of WW and then goes back to work. We're going to investigate that explicitly. That starts next Monday. In addition, the UWV is looking for a working method that ensures that people who resign themselves or turn down new work will no longer receive WW because they have no right to do so. For me, the findings of recent times, the cases that have now come to my office, are also reason to look more broadly. That's why I decided with the UWV that we should investigate the abuse risks in the system at UWV. Strange eyes are going to check the UWV on this. How to communicate with my ministry, I'm taking part in the same investigation. I haven't reported that to your room in one of the letters yet. This is a new announcement from my side. I do see reason to look more broadly than just the reports that have come to us in recent weeks. There will also be, as I announced earlier, an investigation by the internal independent audit service into the handling of fraud signals, both internal fraud signals and external fraud signals. I'll come back to that in a moment. There will be an external cultural research into the UWV, because as I have written before, the openness and integrity of the UWV must be beyond any doubt. I would like to assure you that your Chamber will receive an update on all these matters in January. In the meantime, of course, we won't sit still. We are going to start working on all these steps, to implement them as soon as possible. Finally, I promised your Chamber in the letter that I would inform you annually and confidentially about the fraud that the UWV finds and the way to maintain. I think that the way we are doing this now, which is too much on the main lines, is too thin. It provides too little insight into the underlying fraud phenomena, because there are multiple fraud phenomena. Looking back, I do think that the Chamber should be informed more about what phenomena we encounter in practice and what is needed, perhaps legislation and regulation, perhaps capacity, perhaps even prioritization, in order to be able to deal with these fraud phenomena as well. All in all, it really needs to be better. I can do better than that. Mr Smeulders, for example, has rightly asked questions about the information. I'll come back to that in detail. But the information to the Chamber needs to be improved. That's what I'm gonna do. Mr. Chairman. I want to walk through the topics as follows. I deal with 1. the fraud detected, 2. the more intensive approach, 3. the cultural point at the UWV and 4. the information to your Room. Finally, I have a block of other questions that do not fit this layout. But before I go into that, I would like to briefly outline the context. I think that is important, including in this debate. In recent years, the risk of fraud by migrant workers has increased. The number of migrant workers increased and fraudsters became increasingly sophisticated. The assignment of the UWV has also changed dramatically in recent years. During the crisis period, when WW applications doubled to 700,000 in a year, the priority was to maintain service provision. How do we ensure that people do not end up unnecessarily in debt? From the Ministry of the SZW, for the enforcement policy of the UWV, the main focus was on overall-abuse rates and wrongly I say here less about the underlying specific themes. This has not given the necessary attention and urgency to tackling fraud by migrant workers. This applies both to the monitoring of residence and to the checking of whether unemployment is justified. With the package I am presenting, I would like to address that point very explicitly. I'd like to give you this as an introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Van Weyenberg, we've agreed on the same number of interruptions, haven't we? We shouldn't have a discussion about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u4	Not with me, Mr. Chairman. I have a question about that wide-ranging investigation. Are the UWV's arrangements sufficiently resistant to people they want to abuse? I think it is very good that this research is being carried out, but I have one question. We've talked a lot about people with benefits screwing around. Is this research also going to look at organizations that make a bond about it? I myself mentioned the broadcasting sector, which sometimes sends out signals, but sometimes also turns out to be part of constructions and fraud. I hope that the research is not just about people, but also about organisations, employers, temporary employment agencies that are simply involved. They too should be full of spotlights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u5	I very much agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. It's about abuse risks in the system. It is certainly not just about people, but also about phenomena that connect with the system, about fraudsters that bypass the system through convenient constructions. This may include the employers' side. I'll get back to that in my second block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u6	That's very good, because as far as I'm concerned, they may not be part of it, but they certainly are. Unfortunately, we have also seen examples in which employers and temporary employment agencies have an interest in the constructions with which the government is bottled. I really hope the Minister will take it with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u7	Who was the next interrupter? Or were you all there at the same time? Mr. Jasper van Dijk nods that he was the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u8	That's right. If you list the series of abuses, fake applications, address fraud, benefit vacation, WW tourism, then it is clear that the policy has failed. Do you agree that the people responsible for this have failed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u9	As I write in my letter, I find that there has been insufficient urgency for this phenomenon. In the past period, from 2010 to 2018, sixteen studies have been carried out. It is clear that this point had the full attention. It was about migrant workers, it was about the export of WW, it was about malicious intermediaries. It has certainly had the attention, but it has not been taken sufficiently urgently. Work processes have been adapted, research has been done, about 1,000 benefits have been stopped, fines have been handed out, but structural adjustment of the systems in order to tackle the issue in a structural way has not taken place. That is why I say that there has been insufficient urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u10	It is clear that the policy has failed. We are here today thanks to a broadcast of Newsuur, not thanks to the information provided by the government. That is too crazy for words, but the Minister is silent about those responsible in all languages. There are people behind this. We shouldn't run away from that. What will the Minister do with the people who have legitimized this policy, who have said: you do not have to deal with the fraud, you can look away because it takes too much time? What's the minister gonna do with these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u11	That is the point I want to make when I come to block three of my answer. It's about the culture at UWV. Mr Jasper van Dijk has a point to make. Let me say that now, so in advance. I take that very seriously. The top of the UWV also takes this very seriously. If it's all right with you, I'll come back to that in a moment. These cultural aspects need to be brought up in the external research I have announced. It cannot, of course, be the case that signals from employees about fraud are not picked up in enforcement or by the summit. So I very much agree with that. I'll get back to you on that in a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u12	So it's coming back. Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u13	What has been said not only by Nieuwsuur, but also by the Minister for Social Affairs, Mr Koolmees, in his letters is shocking: 370 million in fraud, of which only 2.5 million has been recovered, 10,000 Poles who could commit undisturbed fraud, some sort of cover-up culture at UWV, you name it. A mess at the UWV. This morning, just before the debate, I received an answer from this Minister to my question as to what consequences it has for the former directors, including Bruno Bruins, who is a minister in the current cabinet, and whether someone has been fired. The answer to that was no. In fact, this minister says that there is no malpractice. Does this Minister seriously believe that all the shocking things that have been brought forward, and which have not led to dismissal, and not to malpractice, have been characterized by him?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u14	In the first place, Nieuwsuur has indeed done a good journalistic work, especially in order to bring out these signals. Should it have happened in a different way? Agreed. That's what I admitted in the letter. Soon we will present a method to prevent this in the future. Two. Mr De Jong is confusing a few things. I said in the letter that there was 370 million in fraud over the whole period 2011-2018 on the total WW population, i.e. 270 million in benefits and 100 million in fines. Of these, the collection rate is 76% after five years. Mr De Jong added 2.4 million for migrant workers. That is a small part of the total fraud in the system. I would like to correct that before the image begins and insists that nothing is done about it. Of course, fraud is being monitored. Of course, 370 million in benefits and fines will be withdrawn. Thirdly, I have deliberately distanced myself from the qualification of malpractice. I have outlined the context of recent years. Many of the MPs have also said that there has been significant savings on the UWV and that a major step has been taken towards the digitisation of all work processes. Against the background of a doubling of the influx into the WW, the UWV has worked very hard to maintain the service. I fully acknowledged, also in my letter, that there was insufficient urgency in addressing this problem, which has grown over the years. In 2010, when the first investigations were carried out, 450 migrant workers were still employed. In the meantime, this has increased considerably, because the share has also increased considerably. So I'm gonna distance myself from the malpractice of qualifications. Well, I think it should be much better. That is why I have presented an approach to tackle these different signals, both about people residing abroad, and about address fraud and voluntary dismissal, much tighter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u15	If you work in a normal company and make serious mistakes, you're just gonna get out. You'll get fired. Just the fact that the UWV did not give priority to combating fraud, just the simple fact that it was not a priority, is enough reason for the whole board to resign. Now this Minister says: no, I am not going to do that; I do not call this a mispolicy either. But a normal person who fills out a form wrongly at the UWV is threatened with discounts on the benefit. He immediately gets the UWV on his roof when he is a Dutchman. But what happens when you're a UWV boss? Then you can fail as much as you want and you get a ministerial post. I ask this Minister to call those who have been responsible for this in recent years, from 2011 to 2018, to account and to ensure that these people are somehow hanged, that they do not get away with this and that they are no longer part of the board and are therefore dismissed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u16	I answered this question in the written set. I would like to emphasise once again that I have shown that in recent years the UWV has carried out sixteen investigations into the phenomenon of migrant workers, the export of WW and the residence in another country. I have shown in these investigations what has happened in recent years in terms of enforcement, withdrawal of benefits and fines imposed. I have indicated, also to Mr Van Dijk in connection with his interruption, that there have been insufficient structural solutions to this problem against a background of a very heavy burden on the UWV. Again, quite rightly: it should have been different. The urgency has been lacking. We're gonna fix that now. However, I am far from qualifying'maladministration'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u17	Rounding up. This is something that has played and continues to play for years and years, from 2011 until now: no priority for fighting fraud. This is about the WW, it is about social security. That's gotten a huge blow. That's not how you deal with our social security. This is a Minister of Social Affairs. He says: it has not been a mischief, they have done research, and that is enough. In fact, he allows it to be that kind of policy. Because if he's not okay with that, he's gonna throw those people out. Then they're not part of the board anymore. If I'm right, there are two people on that board who were responsible back then. What are they still doing over there? A minimum of two tons per year. Why do these people do that? Get out of here!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u18	I think the same question I have just answered is repeated. The most important thing is that we retain the support for social security by tackling this type of fraud in a structural way. That's not easy. I'm about to go over the details of how we're gonna do that. All 16 investigations that I have sent to your Chamber show that there is actually a growing phenomenon over the years and an increasingly sophisticated way of working between agencies, which we really need to do something about. I'm very motivated to do that with the UWV. We've had good contact over the past few weeks. The board of directors and the staff, which I have also spoken to, feel the urgency to take this seriously and structurally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u19	I would like to focus on the approach and the Minister's observation that he is also shocked by, for example, the possibilities that have come to light in the UWV's systems. I think it is right that he should say: I am going to investigate that very carefully. But I would also like to ask him the following. Social security goes wider than just the systems of the UWV. The possibilities or, in fact, the consequences of the influx of migrant workers who are also entitled to social security go beyond the WW alone. I would like to ask the Minister whether he is looking not only at the systems of the UWV, but also at the related systems. It can also be about how the Tax Administration communicates with it, how the SVB communicates with it and the applications that happen there, so that we get a broad view on how to deal with fraud in the systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u20	In part, this is reflected in the cooperation between the implementation organisations, the UWV, the SVB and the Tax Administration, for example with the National Approach Address Quality. Mr Wiersma has a point to make. I spoke to Mr Snel van Financiën about this: how can we learn from each other's methods of working, how can we make them more compatible? One example of this is that I have also looked at what Mr De Jonge and Mr Bruins are doing at VWS, when it comes to fraud in healthcare. I would like to join in this process in informing the Chamber about these frauds and the developments in fraud. I believe that this method also forces you, as a UWV, as an SVB, as a tax authority and as a ministry, both finance and SZW, to tackle this in a structured way and to continue to ask the question: what does this mean for policy, what does this mean for policy rules? I expect a great deal of it, because it will make it much more transparent and much easier to understand what forms of fraud the enforcers are dealing with in practice. Occasionally, their hands are tied behind their backs when it comes to laws and regulations that they can't break through. So it is a valid point. I've been paying attention to that. The research focuses initially on the UWV. State Secretary Van Ark also participates in this approach and talks with the Association of Dutch Municipalities when it comes to assistance fraud. As I also outlined in the letter, broadening is precisely aimed at bringing all these aspects together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u21	Then Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u22	I think it's a good opening for the Minister to say that he wants to be investigated by strange eyes. That is a positive point. Can we then assume that the balance between human resources and resources will also be taken into account, so it could be that more money will be allocated and more human resources? Can the Chamber possibly also be given the research assignment and see? We get an update in January, but the Minister also knows that every month that it takes longer money slips away towards fraud. When does he think the entire investigation will be complete?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u23	I find the latter complicated to answer when the entire investigation is complete. You have heard in my introduction that we want to tackle various aspects, both in terms of address quality, culture and overall risks of abuse, at the same time. I said in my introduction that I would like to give an overview of what is going to happen in January. Mrs Van Brenk's suggestion was to send the research assignment to the House of Representatives. I have no objection to that. Together with you, I would also like to agree on a system or a method of working on how we can discuss together that annual monitor of the fraud signals. Part of it will happen in public, so just one report of what we run into every year. Some will also have to be kept confidential because we do not want the modus operandi, the method of fraudsters, to be publicly available, as Mr Jasper van Dijk said. So, in January, I would like to send you a stand-of-fact letter, which also includes the actions that are already under way. For example, on Monday, UWV starts the data analysis. UWV is already working on address analysis, i.e. multiple benefits at one address. Steps are already being taken in line with the National Approach Address Quality. So things have already started and I would also like to inform you of this in January. It will therefore be a broad letter in which there will be different traces, so that I can take you as a Chamber in how we shape this approach and what steps we take in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u24	One part of my question was whether you are at least going to be that which I hope will not rule out in advance that the balance between human resources and resources is being taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u25	I cannot rule that out, because I also want to have an insight into the prioritisation and capacity. In addition, I do not say directly that we need more money. Mrs. Van Brenk understands that, too. However, I would like external eyes to look at what, for example, these abuse risks mean for the policy within the UWV. I would like to discuss this with your Chamber, but the right steps must first be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u26	I suggest that you continue with your answer, because you have spoken a minute and a half so far. For the rest, it was all interruptions. I would also like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer the questions raised in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u27	I'd like to start with the block description of the benefit fraud. Indeed, an important part of the fraud we are talking about is the stay in the Netherlands where fraudsters use malicious persons and agencies who make money from fraud. In addition, the question is whether some of the migrant workers are rightly entitled to a WW benefit, because they are culpably unemployed according to the definition. In the two letters I have sent you, I have given a detailed description of all the steps to be taken and of various forms of contracts, which can be terminated automatically or by mutual agreement. In doing so, I have tried to outline how complicated it is in practice. In my letter last week, I also mentioned the sixteen investigations carried out by UWV into the fraud surrounding residence. Some of you have asked whether I cannot give a better assessment of the extent of the fraud. Frankly, these investigations do not provide a reliable estimate of the extent of the fraud. They're all samples on samples and further specialities. That is why I am very reluctant to apply this to the entire population. That would not be scientifically justified. At the same time, you can also see that several investigations from 2015 to 2017 show significant cases of fraud, but that is always after a selection of risk characteristics has been made. That's why I'm very reluctant and I don't want to extrapolate this to the entire population. However, it is clear that the risk of this fraud has increased over the years. We can't all walk away from that. This increase is linked to the sharp increase in labour migration; more and more people from Central and Eastern Europe are working in the Netherlands, especially in specific sectors. There is also a relationship with the increased flexwork. There are also the increasing numbers of WW benefits and the increasingly pregnant role of these intermediaries. It has not always been so, but has also grown through word-of-mouth advertising, but this is a wrong term. They learned from each other, and that's how it got bigger and bigger and bigger. All this is closely linked to the risk profile that can be distilled from those studies. The risk arises especially in the case of migrant workers who do not settle permanently in the Netherlands. A large part of the population has settled in the Netherlands sustainably. Just look at the SCP study a few weeks ago on the position of Polish migrant workers in the Netherlands in particular. A lot of these people work and live in the Netherlands structurally. But this is precisely people who do not have a lasting connection with the Netherlands and who are mostly employed on the basis of short contracts, for example for seasonal work. With them the social link with the home country is greatest and one tends to return to the home country after the end of the work. Although it has not been specifically investigated, it is expected that there is an increased risk for migrant workers with multiple short-term contracts in succession, and that there is the greatest risk of this fraud among them. This profile also overlaps strongly with the other profile, namely the culpability. In case of culpability, you voluntarily resign. This too is very closely linked to, for example, temporary contracts or temporary contracts. I'll come back to that in a little bit more detail. The combination of these two therefore puts the greatest risk of fraudulent behaviour in this area. I have tried to answer the questions put by Mr Van Dijk and Mr Van Weyenberg about the extent of this fraud. It is therefore very difficult to say anything about this. So we're gonna deal with the abuse risks in the system, and we're gonna start with that data analysis. But I find it very dangerous to extrapolate this to the entire population based on these studies that have been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u28	I see Mr Gijs van Dijk coming to the interrupting microphone, but first I would like to ask the Minister how far he is with this section on fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u29	I have three specific questions to answer on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u30	Then I would suggest that you answer it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u31	Mr Gijs van Dijk also asked a question about the legality of the audit, the 99.2%. That is the legality rate according to the internal audit service of the UWV. This is determined by the UWV Distribution Division and reviewed by the Law Department and the UWV Accountant Service. It has been asked whether this has been done independently. The UWV Accountant Service, an internal service, is truly independently positioned and is also independently able to investigate this type of internal process, and to make recommendations about it. At the same time, I fully understand the background to your question. Isn't there much more fraud we don't see? That is, by definition, the complexity of fraud. If you saw fraud, you'd handle it, but if you didn't see it... It is a bit of a faint circular reasoning, but unfortunately it is the reality in this matter. Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether there are specific sectors where the problem is present. I think I've actually answered that question implicitly. Risk profiles are mainly in flex and in temporary work, is our firm impression. So the UWV will perform that data analysis on the work patterns, for example the "six months, three months, six months." The agricultural and horticultural sectors, the catering industry and perhaps also construction are at risk. It is expected that there will be the greatest risks, and in particular the temporary agency work, because of the specific design of that work, namely the temporary agency clause. But I'll come back to that in a moment. I think that's what I wanted to say in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u32	Yes. Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u33	This is a relevant subject in this debate. How big is this, exactly? We all find that the fraud is unacceptable here. Can the Minister make an assessment? Can he make a real assessment of this if he goes through those data files? For then it will be so that the 99.2% that is now in the books at the UWV just goes down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u34	The latter could, indeed, but I find it difficult to say something meaningful about it. I also think that if I say something, it must be backed up with figures. We can't do that right now. But it is a fair question from Mr Gijs van Dijk. Let's say that the data analysis and the mapping of abuse risks reveal a completely different picture. Then I'll inform your room about that. That does indeed mean something for the percentages of legality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u35	Follow-up question: is it possible to look back? And how far can we look back? It's very fair to all those people who do pay the premiums if we just get that money back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u36	I'll have a full answer to that in a minute. This is what recovery is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u37	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u38	The second block concerns the intensification of the approach. So I've made arrangements with UWV over the past week to get to that tighter approach. We have taken a few concrete measures. Some can indeed be taken directly, have already entered. Others require some preparation time, and I have also indicated that any legislative and regulatory changes may be necessary. I agree with Mr Heerma. So that's not what I'm thinking. An important point is the address registration. Some of you mentioned this in the first term. UWV's gonna set this up tighter. The registration at the address of the municipality, the BRP, is leading. I think that is Mr Jasper van Dijk's question. UWV will more closely monitor the use of an additional address next to the BRP address. Why is that? Because in some situations, especially when it comes to migrant workers, there is not yet a definitive BRP address, but an RNI address, sorry for the technique, chairman. What we often see is that, especially in the population insured at UWV, there are people who, for example, live in an institution or live in a bungalow park, where there is one address. This also makes the results of the previous investigation carried out in 2010 and 2011 on address fraud very logical. This involved migrant workers who, for example, temporarily lived in a bungalow park or on a camping site for seasonal work. That has come out of the investigation and is no reason to investigate it further, because it makes sense and explainable. For UWV, especially when it comes to the disability population, there are very often people staying in an institution. That makes sense, too. The picture that appeared in the Nieuwsuur broadcast of 61 beneficiaries over a three-year period at one address in Tilburg does not make sense. Due to the better address registration and the connection to the Basic Registration Personal data we can filter out precisely those signals. Then the quality of address data will also improve and we can also better maintain it. Again, that is also where the UWV has already started, to take those steps. There has been a list of addresses on which multiple benefits are received. They're being held against the light now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u39	I asked in my first term why this hasn't been done before. There's been a discussion about doing this before. Why hasn't it been done before? How can we, as a chamber, trust that it will happen right now? How will the Minister inform the Chamber about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u40	The second question is the easiest. We're gonna do it. I'm going to inform your Chamber in January about the state of play and the chain cooperation in the nationwide approach address quality, in which UWV, Tax Administration, SVB, several execution organisations are involved. We're just gonna do it. I find the first question more difficult to answer at the moment. I know there has been discussion before. I've had a lot of conversations over the past week about how it could have happened this way. What I hear is that the condition for getting a benefit is not that you have to be registered in the BRP. There was also often either an RNI or a residence address. But I agree with Mr Heerma that it should have happened sooner. I'm on top of it right now to get it done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u41	The condition for obtaining this is not that, but the condition for getting it is that no fraud is committed. So we need to check for that. The Minister says that he can now find it difficult to answer the first part of the question. In his letter of January, will he address the question of why it has not happened before? Can he also comment in that letter on how the Chamber is regularly informed about this after January?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u42	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u43	I have some indications that the UWV is putting its heels in the sand with regard to those address changes, and possibly even the Minister is beeping. So I'd like to help him. I think you should get rid of that separate address registration by the UWV. I think the UWV should go all the way to the city's address registration. Is the Minister willing to do that? The Home Office is already looking into that. I think we should take that step today, so that the UWV goes completely away from its own address registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u44	I have the specific question of Mr Jasper van Dijk whether the BRP is being led. The answer is yes. Leading, because there are also homeless and homeless. That's always a complicated situation. But the starting point must be that the BRP will be leading the administration, where you can also have a stay elsewhere. It must be clear where you are, so that the UWV can check whether you are entitled to a benefit and stay in the Netherlands. That is the most important thing, but the BRP connection is going to happen anyway, also in order to identify the risk of fraud between themselves, i.e. with different benefit institutions. I am always pleased with the support of Mr Jasper van Dijk to continue to encourage me to pursue this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u45	The Minister's letter also states that "the Ministry of the Interior is examining the possibility of registering the residence address in the Netherlands in the BRP." I'm just gonna give it to him. As far as I'm concerned, we need to do that right now. Another point is the fact that, as you also saw in Nieuwsuur last week, it is very easy to detect fraud according to IT experts. Did the minister see that, too? And is he going to use that method? I can tell him that the programs to arrange that are already available immediately. It is also incomprehensible that they were ever deleted by the UWV. Let's apply them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u46	The general answer is yes. That's why the UWV starts that data analysis on Monday. One of the topics is this. I will come back to that very specifically in a moment, because there are all kinds of hooks and eyes on it because of the quality of the data. I'll get back to the pilot. Some of you have also asked questions about this. I think it's good to realize that the quality of data is quite a focus for me. But I'll get back to that in block four.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u47	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u48	What if the MPs stick to the rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u49	Yeah, that's a good question. So far, so good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u50	That's entrapment. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I have dealt with the addresses explicitly. The UWV also sharpens the process surrounding the paper application of the WW. This is indeed about the registration of intermediaries. I will also outline the background. It is very legitimate that there are intermediaries. If someone wants to bring their father or mother to support a benefit claim, that is of course a good thing. The union is also a partner registered as an intermediary. What matters is intermediaries with indeed malicious intentions that are not registered. Mr Wiersma said that it was about legal acts, about whether you were mandated. Everyone understands it's not a problem if it's someone's mother or father. This is precisely a question of forgery in writing, in which people, who have not received the mandate at all, sign signatures on behalf of someone. That's just fraud. But that process is being tightened up. A list of intermediaries is being drawn up. If people report as intermediaries to the application for a WW benefit, it will be registered, so that you can also identify patterns and know where to go if there are signs of fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u51	This is what the minister was going to say about the intermediaries? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u52	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u53	Because these intermediaries are crucial here. We all understand that, if you need help filling out forms, it's really handy. I don't think we want to make that impossible at all. What we do want to make impossible is this. You see a trend that these kinds of agencies are increasingly involved in fraud, that they are used for it. Then it does help to register more that can help, I hope so too. But you should also be willing to take more firmer measures. The question I asked was whether on the basis of the risk inventories that UWV can make on the basis of groups where they think "that are short-term contracts, in the past we have often seen of these kinds of offices and we have already had some convictions" could not say: that is what we are focusing on and in the extreme case we make legal acts of intermediaries impossible, because we want to physically see those people and also help them with knowledge, if necessary with our own people, but not through those intermediaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u54	I actually agree with Mr Wiersma's speech. The condition for that is that you know who they are. That's what it starts with. If you can say on the basis of a risk profile "there is the greatest risk of fraud and these intermediaries are part of it," then you also know where to start looking. Right now, we don't know that, because those intermediaries aren't registered anywhere, unless you're ordered to do legal acts. Someone who's just cheating, we don't have anywhere. If someone reports to the UWV for a WW benefit with a paper WW application, this can be done relatively easily. We have to make that possible through the law. This again has to do with privacy, the GDPR and that kind of aspect. But that's where it starts. If you don't know where to look, tackling fraud becomes very complicated. But I agree with the rest of Mr Wiersma's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u55	Does he also want to take with him in the letter he has promised for the beginning of next year whether it is sufficient to work alone with a white list, as he says? So make sure you do that registration. Or, and the VVD would like to do so, should we also do something about the legal acts for intermediaries, where perhaps on the basis of the past we can clearly see that it is not going to work? Then we can say: no, you simply don't have the power to do legal acts; that's where we stop with those intermediaries. Not with interpreters, but really with issuing an authorization. The problem is: then we identify, for example, that we also get a lot of address information, registrations at one correspondence address, all with that intermediary. You don't want that. Suppose we see that, are we really prepared to ban these legal acts on that intermediary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u56	I'll come back to the effect. It's a good point. There are also conversations going on with the bona fide intermediaries to see how we're going to shape that. I'll get back to you in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u57	Of course, those agencies that abuse must be dealt with vigorously; the PVV fully agrees with that. Only, of course, that cannot take away responsibility for people receiving WW when they know that they have no right at all there. Those people just need to be dealt with hard and hard. Can the Minister, therefore, promise that in future, we shall be surprised that this does not happen in the case of every WW application, by default, whether the person receiving the benefit is entitled to it at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u58	In my letter last night I described the standard process that UWV follows when applying for a WW benefit. I also showed in that letter in a table that last year, by my mind, 69,000 people did not receive WW because they did not meet certain conditions or the referee requirements. It may also be that they were blameably unemployed, for example immediate dismissal for theft. Those steps are in the standard process at the UWV, so if someone is not entitled to them, they also get no benefit. This is a specific form of fraud, which is not subject to a check mark or data. That also makes it very difficult to enforce in practice. Mr Heerma made a valid point in his first term. In 2006 we amended the law, because for that stage a lot of people pro forma filed a lawsuit if they were fired, in order to keep justice at the WW. Then we said: in the event of dismissal in the event of mutual agreement between the employer and the employee, you retain your right to the WW. But if you're voluntarily unemployed, you're not entitled to the WW. The point is: how can you maintain that in this situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u59	I'm just asking a very simple question. Newsuur's transmissions have shown that this is not happening now. Employers say: no, I have not been called at all; in recent years I have perhaps 700 people, Polish people, who have gone away, who suddenly dropped the job after six weeks. Those people themselves left that company, they were not fired and then received a WW benefit. So that's not being checked. My simple question is therefore: can the Minister promise that from now on anyone who applies for a WW benefit and eventually gets it will first be checked whether they are entitled to it at all? The Minister can just promise that if he wants to. That would also give a motion from the PVV. So this is a standard check. It is not said: we are going to do so in one sector and we are not going to do so in the other. No, every WW application is checked by default to see if anyone is entitled to it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u60	That standard check is there. The problem is that this standard control for this group does not work, is not carried out and is also very complicated in practice. I shall return to the fraud signals in a moment with a concrete example. I guess that'll help...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u61	Then you will have the opportunity to respond, Mr. De Jong. The minister's gonna come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u62	It doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u63	I would like to answer the question now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u64	Yes. Okay. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u65	I'd love to. The point is that I am asking for a standard procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u66	I agree with Mr De Jong that we need a standard procedure. What is so complicated in this situation is that we are not actually registering at the moment whether someone is blameworthy or not guilty of unemployment. Let me put it this way. That could be in theory, because the system is built on it. The ICT expert also showed this on Twitter this morning. But the point is that that doesn't happen. That has everything to do with the complexity of this contract of employment. It's obvious when a temporary employment contract starts, but it's unclear when it ends. It can be disbanded at any time because of the broadcasting clause. You can't see that until you're in the payroll chain. It doesn't stop in there for 26 weeks. This is a very soft term, which I have announced: how do we ensure that this information becomes available automatically, so that someone who is guilty of unemployment does not receive benefits?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u67	I sometimes wonder if Mr Koolmees, the Minister for Social Affairs, has seen episodes of Newsuur at all, because it is almost impossible to do more simply than how Nieuwsuur has put it forward. There are employers who say: I have seen a lot of people leave my company in recent years; I have not fired them at all and then they have received a WW benefit. So at that time there was no standard check to see if those people were entitled to it. For example, there has been no simple call to the employer to ask whether or not that person has rightly left you; is he fired? That didn't happen. The Minister says this is going on, but it is not. My question is, why is that? It is bizarre that I have to ask at all how the hell this can be done, because you would expect that every application for a WW benefit will simply look at whether that person is entitled to it. Two: can the Minister simply undertake to do more simply than this, can it hardly be that every application for a WW benefit is checked whether that person is entitled to it? Because that is not happening, nor is it happening in the measure the Minister is now putting forward in his letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u68	Simply put, I agree with Mr De Jong. The answer to Mr De Jong's second question is that it requires some work to achieve this. I have announced that I will do so and that there will be an automatic signal. The question of how this should be designed is not so simple. Let me give one concrete example. Mr De Jong talks about "a simple call." What happens then? The UWV calls the employer or the temporary agency with the question: have you made an offer? If the answer is yes, then the question is: do you have it on paper? If the answer is no, it's very complicated to prove. So we need to find a way to register this automatically, as Mr De Jong rightly says, so that it actually comes out of the system automatically as a check for the legality of the WW. That's what we're looking for. We are now looking at how to deal with this in a good, efficient and targeted way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u69	The cubes are a bit messed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u70	Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u71	So it's hard to choose exactly where to ask my question. But let me do it here. It's about the search in the systems and the claim, including from the ICT expert, at Nieuwsuur that you can do that with a morning's work. Then I always get a little suspicious, but this gentleman has just let me know that within an hour he's done this and sent me the queries. I don't know about ICT, but is it true that a system allows you to search in it and you can just get that information out of the system with a relatively clear program? If that's the case, I'm still wondering why that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u72	That's a fair question. Yeah, it was on this block. I have an example here. I can also send it in the letter of January. There are several codes in the UWV system for reasons of termination of employment: "end of contract', "end of contract', "repealed by the user', "dismissed from employment'. It can be registered in itself in the system. That's not happening right now. At least, in August 2018 that is recent information.... there are 30,000 notifications made in the system and 155 would indeed have been offered work by often the temp agency. 155 out of 30,000. These dates only stop after 26 weeks, because they are in the Tax Administration's payroll chain. 26 weeks is a very long period for entitlement to benefits. The problem is therefore: the quality of the dates, the way in which employers fill it out and the date on which it is fixed. Do I agree with the whole Chamber that there is a solution there? Yes. If we manage to do this in a good way, you can say: once someone has been offered a job and is therefore voluntarily unemployed, then he is not entitled to a WW benefit. The search is now: how are we going to get this done so that it is workable? My question is not whether we are going to do this. My question is how we're gonna do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u73	In January, the Minister wants to inform us about the implementation of the plans under way. But here we are one phase earlier. It is still unclear to me what the system can do and what we need to make better use of it. I hear Mr Veldwijk say that he can make that very clear, that he can make that very easy in the system. He knows the system well. Can the Minister tell us from January, where the question is more about implementation, rather soon after this debate, what the system can and what we are going to do to make better use of it? I find that quite different from what we get in January, which is more monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u74	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u75	I think we're getting a few steps further now. I must say that in the first answer to Mr De Jong's question, it was a bit of a word game at some point. Mr De Jong, of course, means that there is no proper control. The Minister may say that there is a check, but it does not work well enough. It's good that these systems are going to be vetted and then they're going to see what comes up. At the same time, employers indicate that we used to have a standard check and we were called, but that's hardly happening anymore. I myself quoted that law of 2006. The Chamber itself decided with the cabinet at the time that this is less important. Looking at the law, I do not think it is enough just to say: we are going to get more out of the system. The Minister has announced a pilot with the temporary agency industry. I think it's fine to run a pilot. But is the Minister going to work now, for example by adapting policy rules? I even think that there might be a need for a legislative amendment here to really effectively check whether there is no work. If there is a job, you are not entitled to a WW benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u76	Mr Heerma is right. I don't think law should go back to the system before 2006. This leads to a lot of pro-forma court cases. Neither does Mr Heerma. It is a targeted and effective approach where the risks of fraud are greatest. I've just outlined where I think the risks are. The data analysis has to prove that, too. My quest is precisely this: how can you do that? I'm not ruling out that you need a law change for that. Nor do I rule out the fact that, for certain sectors, you actually have to go back to the system of that time. I do not want to anticipate that, because I am trying to find a solution that can be even more effective. But I'm not ruling it out, because one of those other reasons might indeed be that you're structurally delivering the tick or the data in the vein of: I offered someone a job, but he refused. I would also like to think, for the nuance and for the image, about what that means for the position of migrant workers in the Netherlands in particular, because they do become very dependent on their temporary agency. In this way, I try to find an effective, targeted and effective solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u77	I would like to thank the Minister for this answer, but at the same time I understand the concern about returning to a 2006 system and to many pro-forma cases. On the other hand, it is also true that if you only look very specifically and think that only here is the problem, we might realize next year that there may be another sector. We let that go because we don't want bureaucracy. I understand the pilot and I understand the search in systems now, but I would like to ask the Minister to start working on these policy rules in advance, but also with possible legal adjustments, so that we can change the law here so that effective enforcement is enforced. This can also be accompanied, especially in sectors at risk, by additional administrative burdens, but the structural fraud that is taking place is really worse than just a little more administrative burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u78	I agree with Mr Heerma on that last point. I do need this time and this data and risk analysis. I am not ruling it out at all, I say to Mr Heerma. I also believe that rules and other systems are needed to tackle this structural form of fraud. This will indeed be accompanied by administrative burdens. Well, that's just because this fraud phenomenon is too big for it to happen. If it is all right with you, I will come back to that letter explicitly in January, once we have done that analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u79	It is good that the Minister will look at it further, but it is of course already a problem at the moment, because it is a standing practice. Temporary agencies are complaining, too, as we've seen. It is not that we did not think about it at all in 2006. There are risk factors - the Minister rightly mentions this - which the UWV can pick up by saying: in the seasonal work and temporary contracts sectors I am going to check extra. The Minister said that he was going to look specifically at this in a pilot with these temporary employment agencies. But couldn't he just use the UWV to make all that risk analysis right now to come up with a reinforced approach? On the basis of this risk analysis, which I believe is possible and which I do not think it is necessary to amend the law, does he intend to deal with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u80	It is true that there are two separate points. The first question is whether, in the short term, based on the current instruments, systems and the current approach, you can do something about enforcement in this respect. Of course you can. Mr Heerma's point is more of a long-term point, a structural point. If you have detected that there is a greater risk in certain sectors or in certain branches, how are you going to better adjust Mr. De Jong's point, namely automatically to see if someone is entitled to a WW benefit? The two of them don't bite each other. What we're doing now in the short term is those addresses and that data analysis. When risks come out, I think it is very sensible that I should discuss this with the UWV that they bet enforcement capacity on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u81	It does seem useful to me to hear about this in the short term, but I think the Minister has just promised it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u82	In January I come with a wide...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u83	I think that's too late for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u84	I know what the risk sector is. That's the broadcasting sector. 80% of migrant workers in the Netherlands work through a temporary agency contract or construction. The Minister who is now talking about registering and how to make it more complicated and impossible to fraud, I would therefore ask you to respond to the Belgian model in which employers or temporary employment agencies have to indicate when a migrant worker comes in and when he leaves, which means that you have much better insight and may also be able to detect fraud much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u85	This question was raised in Mr Van Dijk's first term. Then the Minister will certainly come back to that, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u86	Sure. I'm looking for the answer. I'll get back to you in a minute. Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Heerma have asked a number of general questions about fraud signals from existing ICT systems. So that's what we're gonna do with this data analysis and we're gonna investigate abuse risks. Mr De Jong did indeed ask whether UWV could be obliged to check whether there was a right in the case of applications. The intention is the same, namely that they indeed control the right. In practice, it is the search for the right effect to achieve this. I'm working on it. Mr De Jong also asked whether the UWV could be obliged to continue to monitor and enforce after granting the benefit. So: not only when providing the benefit, but also when it is running. The UWV carries out checks during the benefit and looks, for example, at income received during the benefit, but also at job interview activities and data from other systems, such as GBA or BRP write-out, as it is now called, and whether the person is detained. There's checks on that. Especially when it comes to being available for the labour market and the place of residence, it really needs to be better. I've made proposals for that, too. Mr Wiersma asked whether the entire population of migrant workers could be vetted for fraud. I have indicated that I want to investigate wider risks of abuse. I find that more effective than taking out one population in advance. I do not rule out the fact that this is the case in some other sectors. I see Mr Wiersma nodding. We've had the registration of intermediaries. Mr Heerma asked whether there would also be a check on non-appointable dismissal. I've just talked about that in detail. Good to know is that the UWV checks with the application whether there is culpable unemployment. In itself that is already a standard part of the key. For temporary contracts, the employee must indicate whether the employer has offered other work or a new contract. That's the list I was just talking about with the 30,000 signals. In the case of call for calls, it is asked why there is no longer a call for calls. That form is the basis of it. Only the timeliness of this is one of the problems, because they only come after 26 weeks. Mr Heerma has also asked a question about criminal investigations and prosecutions in relation to administrative investigations. Yeah, that's a fair point. A few weeks ago, it was decided with the Public Prosecutor's Office that extraordinary investigators of the UWV itself could conduct criminal investigations in the suspicion of the adoption of a false identity. For organised forms of benefit fraud, the Inspection SZW can also be used, as was also done in 2015 in the situation in Tilburg. Criminal investigations are often labour-intensive pathways. They must be used as an ultimatum remedium or if there really is a need for a deepening of the fraud signal. They'll put the BOLOs in. So they can also apply for prosecution from the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u87	Did you answer all the specific questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u88	I'm gonna go through it real quick. I will come back to Mr Van Dijk's question on the Belgian system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u89	I have some concern about the last part of the Minister's reply, because it is an ultimate step. I think that's part of the problem we're talking about here. I have often had this discussion with the minister's predecessor when it comes to the Fraud Act. If there are a lot of administrative penalties that can be passed on to people who fill out a form wrongly or turn it in one day too late, then there will be enforcement capacity. When it comes to tackling large, heavy and willful fraud, it does indeed cost detective capacity. But it can't be that all the attention and resources go to tracking down that simple form fraud and that it is said that, at the end of the day, this takes a lot of time. This must be a priority, because it is precisely about this great fraud that there is social anger. There must be sufficient commitment to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u90	I understand Mr Heerma's point. I find it difficult to say in concrete terms that this is how we are going to do it. Let me chew on that, because I see the point too. We also saw it at the Inspection SZW in 2015 in Tilburg, where they only went down after a lot of signals. I myself went to a raid in the Westland a few months ago, along with the SZW inspection. There is a lot of work involved; it is very labour-intensive. So I see the point, but let me chew on that, if you don't mind. Let me chew on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u91	The Minister can chew on a lot of things. But we are talking about a rather fundamental problem here. Almost all Members of Parliament have talked about the examples of those people who turn in a form one day late and get a fine. And there's already a lot of frustration about that. But if administrative law is the primary enforcement apparatus, where people get a fine with a mistake and at the same time there is too little capacity to tackle large-scale, willful fraud because the focus is on the first, then there will be a lack of justice. I am pleased that the Minister is going to chew, but it really needs to change and this kind of thing confirms that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u92	In general, I agree with Mr Heerma. Why I doubt to move on right now is that I can't see all the consequences. But I also see the issue of justice and its structural nature and extent. But let me chew on how we could address this in a good way. A little freewheeling at this point doesn't make much sense on my part either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u93	If I understand correctly, the Minister has not returned to what has happened to the signals so far. Because what I really still have a question about is that we hear that there are reports, both internally and externally. We saw a number of people from temp agencies reporting something, and in their view nothing is being done about it. The Minister also says in the answers: I cannot talk about individual cases. I understand that, but I'd really just like to have an overview. How many reports have come in externally? How many of these have actually been analyzed? How many were researchable? How much research has been done? In how many cases did people really turn out to be screwing with the shit? Not at individual level, but to get a sense of what really happened to those external reports. 'Cause I'm worried if that stays down. People report a miscarriage, then something should happen to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u94	Mr President, I am looking for my own answers this morning. I believe that many of these questions were sent to the Chamber in the written set this morning. Out of my mind, that's always dangerous, but I was looking for the Enforcement Department two weeks ago. About 15,000 reports per year come within the UWV itself. So these are employees of the UWV who are in the UWV division, who have customer contact and who say: something is going on here, I have a suspicion of fraud. They will report such a report to the UWV Enforcement Office. There are 400 people working on the enforcement of fraud signals. I think I saw a figure of that in the written set this morning. There is a very high success rate, because the employees of the UWV often have a good understanding of where the risk of fraud lies and who pass it on. In addition, there are about 15,000 signals from outside, so I shall say from employers, temporary employment agencies, neighbours, who are also being reported and are also getting started. One of the tricky things about those reports is often that they happen anonymously and that it is very difficult for the UWV to pick up those signals. I'd like to share one anecdote with you anyway. There are also a lot of weekly signals coming in, for example someone who says: my neighbor is disabled but is always working. Then enforcement goes on to do so, which checks that and concludes that the neighbour is partially disabled, 40% disabled. Where, on the contrary, we make a great deal of effort to help someone to work alongside their benefit, because we all consider that to be important. Then one of them concludes: there is nothing going on here, this is legitimate, this is allowed, this is good, that we all want. But that enforcer can't reconnect that signal to the person who reported it, because that's privacy-sensitive. As a result, this lady sends the same signals to the UWV every week. There is also a part of the problem. And there is also a part of the problem within the UWV, which I will get back to in a moment to the cultural aspects: that there is not enough sense that something is happening with these signals. I am assured that enforcement really picks up all these signals and investigates them seriously. In the figures I sent to you this morning, there is exactly the number and also the number of success rates there. But I will come back to that at the cultural point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u95	Finally, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u96	Of course, I welcome the Minister's commitment, which says that we are working towards a standard control, which is already there in part. That's what the Minister just said. But what I want to go to is for a standard check to be carried out when applying for the benefit and for a check to be made immediately to see if they are entitled to that benefit. So that is not just looking into the system or those who may be prone to fraud or whatever, but also that, for example, the employer's standard approach is being looked at. That is a clear question, also for the second time in relation to my motion, so that the Minister knows where I am going with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u97	I do not know exactly where Mr De Jong is going with this. Does he mean that by default the employer is called, so to speak, to ask what is the reason for the dismissal? Is that what Mr. De Jong means?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u98	The Newscast has shown that at the moment there are people who have received a WW benefit, while they have not been fired. They just left on their own. The Minister says that there are checks, but at least those checks did not ensure that those people were fished out and that these people did not receive WW benefits. So there's something going wrong with that checkup. So I want to have a check that does the following. You come into the UWV. You ask: I want a WW benefit. Then a check will be carried out on whether that person is entitled to do so at all. One of the things you could do at the time, a standard check, is to ask the employer: is he fired or has he resigned? What exactly happened? A simple question. I want to do this so that it is not possible to look only at systems and that, in the end, there is still no personal contact, for example with an employer or with the person himself. So there must not only be dependence on a system, but also the control must be set up in such a way that more face-to-face results are achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u99	I'm going to give the answer in three layers. The first layer is: I agree with Mr De Jong that such a standard check should be carried out in the system. Two: last year, in 2017, there were 450,000 applications from the WW. To do so as a standard, it is very labour-intensive and not always necessary. Three: the search for a targeted, effective approach to these constructions, which we have seen in the Newshour broadcast, which we know is the biggest risk of fraud. That's what my search is for. Once again, it's not about whether we're going to do this, it's about how we're going to shape this. So I very much agree with Mr De Jong's approach, but I am peeling off how we can shape this, including in terms of costs and administrative burdens. At the same time, there is also the social non-acceptance of fraud. I think Mr De Jong and I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u100	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u101	Mr Van Dijk specifically refers to the Belgian example. It's about Mimosa, isn't it? I hear that's right. I would like to see what is happening in Belgium in this area. I want to take that into account in the analysis, too, if that can be useful with those abuse signals. We do know the Mimosasystemathic and, as you may know, the WagwEU Posting of Workers Directive will also start in the Netherlands in 2019. The Social Insurance Bank is now making that system. Those who take up the service, the employer, must register the employees from abroad who come here in the WagwEU system. I'm going to see if that Belgian example can be applied and if it fits with the privacy regulation and the free movement of services. But I'll take that into account in that analysis, if Mr Van Dijk is okay with that. That was block 2, but also secretly a lot of other cubes mixed up. Block 3 deals with the cultural aspect of the UWV. In the last month, such signals have also emerged about the openness and integrity of the UWV. There was criticism of how the UWV deals with signs of fraud and how these signals are addressed. I had a conversation with the board of directors of the UWV. I also visited staff members of the Enforcement Board. I have also spoken to a member of the works council, precisely to verify whether they recognize themselves in the image that is outlined. The employees I've spoken to are, of course, a small population. After this debate, I have other agreements, with the benefit divisions, in order to shed my light on that too. But the people I have spoken to do not recognize themselves in the sketched image and have also been struck by the coverage and the typologies of culture. I'm happy to report that to you today, too. I think it is important that employees feel safe to share signals, including fraud signals, and that their signals are actually picked up by Enforcement, but also by the summit. In recent years, the UWV has invested heavily in an open culture. When a person is in doubt about the openness: at UWV they have different channels to ensure that these signals are brought out, such as the works council and external confidants. We have the Bureau of Integrity and the role of the listening ear. These are all instances within the UWV itself that invite the employees to report when they have such a signal. Mrs. Van Brenk said in her contribution that the work experience survey of September 2018 showed very recently that many employees are positive about openness and integrity. At the same time, I see the signals. I see the signals at Newshour and in the newspaper, as well as on the intranet of the UWV. I had a serious conversation with the board of directors. There should be no doubt about the openness and integrity of the UWV or within the UWV. In view of these signals, the UWV's board of directors and I have decided that there will be an external review to ensure openness and integrity. I will also have the accountants of the UWV audit the handling of signals of fraud. I'll let the Chamber know what happens with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u102	I think this is one of the most important cubes. I would like to put three points to the Minister in this interruption. The letter we received this morning also states that signals from employees are always taken away by the board and the directors. But that has not led to further research, while the whole of the Netherlands is turned upside down by Nieuwsuur. How is that possible? That is one cultural aspect. The next answer in which I have doubts about what it says about culture at the UWV summit is that they have not informed the Ministry about this. That's a pretty bad thing to do. I would like to ask one more question: would the Minister like to address the cultural aspect of the minister's own ministry and his answer? He says, "I'm not talking about malpractice." But there's still an investigation to be done. Can it not be that, because we are conducting an investigation, this can ultimately be one of the conclusions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u103	My qualification that there is no malpractice is based on the context I have tried to outline in my introduction. Then it's about the huge amount of work that has come to the UWV over the past few years, 700,000 applications for WW, the digitisation of software against a backdrop of major cuts, also on the UWV. Let me make a distinction between two things. The signals of stay abroad, the signals of rogue intermediaries, say the signals from the first broadcasts of Nieuwsuur, have indeed reached the top of the UWV. This has also led to all these investigations: exploratory research to see what the phenomenon is like, but also fraud investigations and enforcement investigations. So those signals were picked up inside the UWV. My criticism is that it did not end up in the Ministry until a late stage, namely early 2018. Another point was about the signs of the culpability of unemployment. That's what this morning's question was about. In all these reports, we have looked at whether that point has emerged. That wasn't reported. The same point must also be known, and we must tackle it. But that's about another question. Maybe that's what the confusion is about. The fraud relating to stays abroad and the point of malicious intermediaries have been reported much earlier. Several investigations have been carried out. There's been some enforcement. But my criticism is that it has not been taken up urgently enough and structurally enough. But it's two separate discussions. I will speak shortly about the provision of information from the UWV to the Ministry of Social Affairs and then from me to your Chamber, but there is also a big point. In recent years, it is really just about basics. You will also see this when you look back at the information that has been given to your Chamber. It is about legality, about 'prisoned' fraud, about the recovery rate, but it is not about the concrete phenomena that we see in practice and for which we pay particular attention. Last time, I tried to light up a little bit of the veil in the letter I sent you. I have written that there are other phenomena, such as bankruptcy fraud. There are also separate phenomena studies going on in the sex sector. But precisely in order to better inform your Chamber about these kinds of developments, namely that fraudsters are still creative and are always looking for a new way to fraud, I would like to draw up that annual report with you, which will allow the UWV, the SVB and perhaps also the Tax Administration to report together what they see in practice. Then there is the question: what can we do about this in the laws, regulations and enforcement? Then it should also be better arranged between the UWV, SZW and your Room. That's a long answer, excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I thought it was important to do justice to the three questions put by Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u104	Do I understand correctly that, following this morning's letter, which states that it did not lead to a further investigation, you say: staff did indicate it at the summit, but they did not judge it sufficiently heavily? So is that an error of assessment and not a cultural error?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u105	I find that question difficult to answer. Your room asked these questions the day before yesterday. We've gone mad to answer your questions as best we can. So we have looked at what has been discussed over the past period between the Management Board and the Directors when it comes to this issue of culpable unemployment. We didn't find anything there. But I do think it is important that it is beyond doubt that all signals and signals of this kind from employees should also be picked up. That's why I just started my introduction to this point. The image I have now is that it has happened. That also came out in my conversation with the Enforcement Board. In the conversation with the works council it also came up. But if these signals are there at Nieuwsuur, in the newspaper and on intranet, then we have to take that seriously. That is why I asked for an external committee to look into this. She really has the freedom to investigate this, because it cannot be that these kinds of signals linger on any layer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u106	The Minister talks about culture. I said something about that to him in the first term. He says that because of this open culture there is a works council, committees and all kinds of counters. They're also on the website. When I read all this stuff, even that you even need a listening ear, I start to doubt. Do you need all those bypasses in an ordinary organization with an open culture? My question is: doesn't the Minister also have a bit of a feeling that it's not all as open as you need it all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u107	I have noticed that there is indeed an enormous amount. Of course, this also has to do with the background and discussion that took place ten years ago about the state of the UWV. It's a giant organization with 18,000 FTEs spending 25 billion in benefits a year. That's a lot. It's about social security benefits. So it is also about the risk of fraud. It is all very precarious and sensitive, because it is also about people who are sick or unable to work. So I think it is very good that the board of directors and the top of the UWV have a great deal of eye for this. I have received signals, also from the employee satisfaction research, which makes me see that in general things have gotten better in recent years. At the same time, I do not run away from the signals that I see too, namely that there are people who say at Nieuwsuur or on the Internet that they do not feel heard and that their signals of fraud are not coming through. Then you can say that it is arranged in the system that every signal of fraud ends up in the board of enforcement, but if there is no feedback, so that people don't know what's going on with it, I understand that feeling very well. If there were anything else going on and these signals didn't end up in Enforcement or the Director, we'd have a much more fundamental problem. That is precisely the point I would like to make in order to find out the fact that the staff say they do not recognise it, to validate it and to test it externally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u108	I very much appreciate the Minister's saying: we do not just do that for a moment, but let us test it externally. My question is: do you want to test whether this open culture with all the constructions around it helps or perhaps works against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u109	I understand the background to the question, namely whether there are so many formal channels that it is actually blocked, I shall say. I think that is a good point from Mr Stoffer. I'll take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u110	I think we are getting to the heart of the debate we are having today. As far as we are concerned, so as far as GroenLinks is concerned, does the UWV have sufficient capacity and money to carry out its core tasks properly after all the cuts in recent years, to which the Minister referred?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u111	I think that is too complicated a question to answer at the moment. In recent years, there has been considerable savings and a major digitization question. At the same time, you can see that since 2016 more money has been available for personal contact. In this coalition agreement we have therefore released 70 million, precisely in order to strengthen the personal services of the UWV. You asked what that amount was based on. This is based on previous pilots, which showed that personal contact led to good results in guiding people to work. That's what the 70 million is based on. I also indicated in a letter from 1 October, I believe, that there are no signs that there is insufficient budget. At the same time, given these news revelations and given the discussion that we are having in this Chamber, I would also like to have it properly mapped out in order to properly defend the question of whether there is indeed sufficient capacity for that enforcement or whether other solutions are needed. So give me the time and space to examine this carefully, without blinkers, and to look at what is now needed to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u112	I think that is an honest answer from the Minister, but I must also say that I am a little concerned. If this minister, who is responsible for the UWV, does not know if the UWV has enough capacity and money to carry out its core task, we still have a problem with each other. I understand there's no other answer to that right now. That is why I would ask the Minister to look into this really well and to state in the letter that comes in January whether the UWV can use its current capacity and resources. I have another follow-up question. The 70 million from the coalition agreement has now been mentioned a few times. That's for service. Does the Minister agree that the money, which is actually for the provision of services, is now being used to detect fraud and that it is not going to improve the service provided by the UWV, which we all want?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u113	Firstly, I am sorry that my open answer to your legitimate question is interpreted in this way. That's what I wanted to say. The picture we have had in recent years and very recently is that there is sufficient capacity for the enforcement and detection of fraud. At the same time, I note that part of my open answer is that we have been robbed last month by fraud phenomena that we have to deal with. This may be due to the deployment of capacity. It may also be in structural solutions. I am now so open and in a mode of action that I really want to solve this over the next few months, no matter how complicated it is. I do not think that your comment does justice to my answer to your question. That's one. Two. If the broader evaluation of the risks of abuse and the broader analysis of systemic risks shows that it is indeed necessary, then I will come back to your Chamber. That may require reprioritisation. That might ask for extra money. I don't know right now. I have to map that first. If you accept that commitment on my part, we can have a good debate on it in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u114	This is another crucial point. The Minister of Social Affairs is here, because the Minister is responsible. But we are constantly talking about the UWV and what is happening there. I asked in my first term whether the Minister had sufficient control over that organisation. The Minister is politically responsible, but is he here, after years of fraud, perhaps to justify the mistakes in the UWV?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u115	In general, the contact between the UWV and the Ministry of SZW is good. Looking back, too, it is true that for a very long time the maintenance of social security schemes was actually the result of the UWV and the SVB and that there was a distance between SZW and the UWV. That is why the reports to your Chamber were mainly on the main lines. After coming out of this phenomenon, I note that this is insufficient and that it does not do justice to the information position of me to you in order to intervene and to be able to adapt the legislation. I want to change that. But if you see what has happened within the UWV over the past few years and what performance has been achieved, that is impressive. So I am not saying that this fraud is acceptable. Absolutely not! But when you see what has been blocked over the past few years in terms of digital systems that had to be converted, when you see the amount of applications in a complex reality and when you see the employee satisfaction survey: they are all basics and they look good. At the same time, the transmissions of the last few weeks give me two signals. One, there are major risks of error and two, there are serious questions: do signals come out within the UWV? Both of us need to take care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u116	I'm listening to the Minister for a while now...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u117	Very good!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u118	...and the story doesn't add up. The defense is out of order. On the one hand, he agrees that it was a mess at the UWV, that it is too crazy for words that we have been informed by Nieuwsuur and not by the Ministry itself and that we need to investigate exactly what happened. And at the same time he says in his letter: there was no malpractice and the UWV-top doesn't have to go home. That can't go hand in hand. Either you know now or you're gonna investigate. He must keep open the possibility of reaching serious conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u119	It starts with Mr Jasper van Dijk's first assumption: it is a mess. I didn't say that. I did not say that in my entire speech. I was asked in the written set about the qualification malpractice. I don't want to put that qualification on this situation. I have also outlined why I do not think so, given the background and the situation. At the same time, I would also point out that, despite the context of recent years, there are two major problems that we need to address: the situation of staying abroad and the situation regarding the culpability of unemployment. I want to deal with it, and I want to do it with open sight, by looking into it. There is also the point about culture, the signals within UWV. The board of directors of UWV also thinks it is important that we investigate this and go externally. That's what I'm putting here. Those are the agreements and the approach I outline. That's what I want to do. I'm not doing these tests for nothing. I don't do that because I already know what's gonna come out. Otherwise, I won't have to have an external investigation. So if those studies show that we really need to do something else fundamentally, we're going to assess it and discuss it with you, and then we're going to see what we're doing with it. I have been asked at the moment about the assessment of malpractice. Given the context, given what happened, given those sixteen investigations, I'm not taking over that qualification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u120	The whole of the Netherlands has been able to see on television what is happening. You can apply for a benefit without being entitled to it. The Minister should not call that a mess, but the whole of the Netherlands thinks: what is this madness, if I misfill one form then I get fines and I get chased, but these people can apparently get benefits on the ticket tip. That's no good at all. That's my judgment. The Minister says: I'm going to investigate what's going on, but at least it's not malpractice and the UWV summit doesn't have to go home. How could he know that already? Surely, if he really is a democrat who stands for transparency, he must say: Second Chamber, I cannot rule out sending people home because they have seriously failed in the task of monitoring and enforcing fraud? Does he recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u121	What I recognize in my two letters is that the signals of stay outside the Netherlands have not had sufficient urgency. I recognize that. I think we need to work hard on that. What I also recognise in the light of last week's reports on questionable unemployment is that the test is not right. I recognize that, too. If I then go into the context and the relevant developments of the past and see what the House of Representatives has asked for when it comes to services and what needs to be done to help people benefit in a difficult economic time with high unemployment and a small chance of finding a job, I understand the considerations. I understand the situation. Sorry, I'm saying it wrong. I understand the situation in which the UWV had to do its job, in a very difficult period. At the same time, I note that despite the fact that there were signs of this fraud concerning residence and intermediaries, there has not been any discussion of a structural solution. That also has to do with the quality of the address and with the registration of those crooked intermediaries. I think that has had too little urgency. But that is something other than qualifying an entire situation as a mispolicy. I do not think that this does justice to the situation of the past few years and the complexity in which the UWV has to operate and that it does not do justice to the steps that the UWV has taken in recent years when it comes to openness and integrity in its own home. A lot of people have worked very hard to keep the system running. That's the hard part about Jasper van Dijk's question. I am not saying that this fraud is in agreement. Absolutely not. I am not saying that we should not be working hard to tackle this point of residence and the culpability of unemployment. I agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk. I also outlined this in the letter to your Chamber. I have also outlined six steps in how we are going to deal with this and I think it is important that we pick it up as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u122	Can the minister rule out sending people home? I'm not hunting or anything, but at the moment, the Minister is not talking about those responsible within the organization in all languages.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u123	Well, chairman, may I...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u124	Surely the investigation can show that management, management, has said: you shouldn't check for fraud? And we're all not happy about that. Can the Minister say that it is possible for people to be sent home?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u125	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u126	Of course I'm not ruling that out. But if research reveals that this is the case, there is such an investigation and that is new information. Of course I'm not ruling that out. But I must also tell Mr Jasper van Dijk a mirror. The point is that, in all his statements so far, he has been the most expressive in his desire for people to be dismissed. He was in the media, and I think he was in his own input here, but maybe I'm doubting that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u127	I told you to look into that, and I find it very strange that there are people who say in advance: well, we don't need parliamentary research and no, we don't need to hear people under oath. And I'm so curious what the Minister says about that. 'Cause it's weird when everybody gets away with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u128	Frankly, I have not heard Mr Jasper van Dijk's statement. I don't rule it out when research comes up with new information. Of course not, because that's what these investigations are for. But I have just heard something else about Mr Jasper van Dijk's appeal, also in his own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u129	Good. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u130	I see a minister here who is trying very hard to defend the UWV, even though he has also seen the critical remarks made by the General Court and he must feel himself in his shirt because he has not been informed. After all the news broadcasts, he must at least feel bad about the fact that he's responsible for this. How does the Minister see this in relation to culture? He says, "I'll keep defending the club." Still, that club actually put him in his shirt seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u131	The General Court also investigated the UWV one and a half or two years ago. At that time, a lot of positive developments were observed in recent years. What I agree with Mrs Van Brenk and what I also wrote in the letter to the Chamber is that these specific signals of fraud have been picked up too late and with too little urgency, both by the UWV and by the Ministry of Social Affairs. That is my political judgment, I shall say, when I look back at what has happened here. At the same time, I think it is my responsibility to address these issues. And I am responsible for that, and also for what has happened in recent years, in a state-law sense. With the approach I have outlined in these two letters, I am trying to resolve these bottlenecks. I'm working hard on that right now. That's how I feel. I have a good relationship with the board of directors of the UWV. There's an open contact, and I've had some good conversations about it. The UWV's board of directors also feels the urgency to tackle both this fraud and address the issue of culture, things that have emerged in recent weeks. That's where I get the confidence that we're gonna get out of this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u132	I suggest you move on. I think you've reached the point about information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u133	Yeah, I think I've had all the questions about the UWV now. In the meantime, I would like to comment briefly on Mr Van Weyenberg's point on external notifications and internal notifications, Mr President. Last night's letter on page 5 says: "In 2017, 12,280 external notifications were made for fraud by benefit recipients. 3,663 reports turned out not to be about UWV implemented laws. 2,171 reports were about the WW. All these reports will be carefully examined. An external notification gives a warning or a fine for all the laws implemented by UWV in about 18% (22% for the WW).' So this is about external notification, so no reports from UWV employees themselves. The answer to this question was still there, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u134	Yes. Mr Van Weyenberg wants to ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u135	In Nieuwsuur we saw a number of people from temporary employment agencies who said: we sometimes delivered about 100 names of people who, in our opinion, are not entitled to WW at all. The Minister says here today: all these signals have been examined individually, regardless of what the outcome of that investigation was?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u136	I asked the same question. I cannot guarantee this 100%, because those signals may have been reported by the employment agency to the Employers' Service Point, but the question is whether the Employers' Service Point has also led that signal to the internal channels, to the Enforcement Office. That's what we've been trying to find out. I can't say for sure. We can't quite find that in the systems either. What is true is that external signals that end up there are all being followed. The question is whether they end up in the right place. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u137	Okay, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u138	Many questions have been asked about recovery, recovery and look back. UWV has the possibility to recover for 10 years if fraud is detected. In the case of recovery rates, almost 76% will be recovered in a five-year period if fraud has been detected. A palette of measures is taken: bailiffs, but also settlement with benefits, for example. 76% after five years, and then there may be an additional percentage in later years. A question has also been asked about how we are going to do it in the future. I will have a meeting with the Polish ambassador shortly, because there has been a great deal of turmoil in Poland about this form of fraud. I'm gonna see what we can do there together. We are also going to look at the past, asked Mr Gijs van Dijk. Are there enough possibilities to recover, even if you look back at the past? In principle, therefore, it is possible to recover back to ten years. The tricky thing is, you have to prove that there's been real fraud. Especially when it comes to staying, that is a very complicated situation. So it's hard for me to call that reality check "to be able to show that someone hasn't been to the Netherlands." That happens sometimes, occasionally, when you have real proof of it, but if there isn't, it's very difficult to prove and so the chances of recovery are very small. We have now announced measures for the future. We also use that data analysis to see if anything is possible looking back. I think it is fair to tell your Chamber that this is going to be a complicated exercise, because you really have to prove that someone has not been in the Netherlands at the time of that benefit. That's not easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u139	Mr Wiersma, brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u140	The Minister is right, of course, to say that it can be recovered when the fraud has been recognised. Newspaper rightly notes that this fraud has not been recognised very often. The Minister says: we can think of a number of indicators on which you can look back in the past and recognize that fraud. I mentioned one, namely the obligation to apply. That is where the burden of proof lies. That's where it belongs with the person who's supposed to send the letter. Is the Minister prepared to take a retrograde approach to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u141	We're already looking at that. I would also like to do expectations management for this. Application activities, such as visiting a network meeting, are very difficult to establish with retroactive effect. I agree with Mr Wiersma that you can look back at the data or see patterns. So, indeed, for example, nine months, three months, nine months; that could be a handle to think about whether fraud has been committed. Then you'll have to get the evidence around after that. The burden of proof may be his stay, his availability to the labour market, i.e. job application activities, in other words, may relate to the conditions to be met in order to be entitled to a WW benefit. That's how I want to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u142	Finally, Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u143	I'm just looking. I believe that the Minister is actually entitled to evidence here to all those people who have seen in the Nieuwsuur broadcast that money is being obtained in an unfair way. Those people work hard for it and know that the money for benefits is meant for if they have a problem. I think he has a duty to do everything in his power to recover that money retroactively. I hear that the Minister wants to do his best, but I would like to know very precisely what this approach will look like, because I think that only his best efforts are too lean. My next question is: what happens if there has actually been fraud? What happens to those fraudsters? Can they get WW back here? Can we do more about that? Can we take away future law? Is there anything we can do about the residence status? Can they lose them, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u144	Migrant workers from within the EU have no residence status. There is free movement of labour, so that is not the last point. However, it can be settled if there are outstanding amounts. If there are fines that still have to be paid, a bailiff can be sent on them, there can be collection. The UWV is available for various instruments. The tricky thing, however, is to demonstrate retroactively that there has been fraud, especially when it comes to residence. Are we going to do data analysis to see if we see any evidence of fraud and conduct targeted investigations? Yeah, that's what we're gonna do. But I want to manage the expectations clearly, which I don't say "it's been fine, we don't talk about it anymore." No, absolutely not. But you're still innocent in a rule of law until proven guilty. That is an important pillar of our rule of law, so we need proof that there has been fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u145	That it's very difficult to prove, I can imagine. Recovering it when fraud has been proven is wonderful. But you can take that risk again. Whatever you got in there, you have to give it back. I have also asked whether there are possibilities for fine and I think that Mr Wiersma also indicated this, but I put it a little differently in my first term, or whether you can exclude people for a certain period. Maybe you'll come back to that fine and rule it out. If not, I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u146	I have Mr Stoffer's questions in front of me. Penalties of 100% of the amount of fraud are possible. That's standard, I'll say. Moreover, the entire amount for which fraud has been committed must be repaid. In the event of repeated misconduct, the penalty is 150%, i.e. 50% higher than the normal fine. The recovery period shall be a minimum of 10 years. That's the combination of possibilities there are to recover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u147	I therefore understand that exclusion is not possible for a certain period of time at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u148	I will come back to that in second term, I do not know exactly. If Mr Stoffer agrees, I will come back to that later. I think something can be settled, so the moment you're entitled to it...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u149	I have that patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u150	I'll be right back. Then the exchange of information between UWV and SZW to the Lower House. As I outlined in the letter of 1 October, several investigations have been carried out by the UWV over the years on enforcement actions concerning WW fraud in relation to migrant workers. Most of these investigations were conducted under the regular enforcement approach and were therefore not further shared with SZW. It has actually been treated as a work in progress, which of course the UWV does very often, because there are 400 people working in enforcement. I have already concluded that it has not had the necessary urgency to tackle it in a structural manner. The combination of the risk of fraud, the increasing number of migrant workers and the increasingly impregnant perception and increase of malicious intermediaries justify a higher priority of this point. I'm afraid that didn't happen. I have already said that I find the information too broad to date. So I'm going to a new M.O. In concrete terms, I ask the implementing agencies UWV and SVB to inform me annually by letter about the signals and phenomena found in the investigations. It will also indicate how many signals there are, what is the nature of the signals and how these signals have been picked up further. I will also ask the UWV and the SVB to identify the risks of fraud and to inform me of the recommendations, for example in the areas of competence, adaptation of laws and regulations and that sort of thing. This gives you a more intensive and also a structural cooperation between the implementation organisations and the Ministry of SZW, which is also anchored. We therefore have an annual moment with the Chamber to really discuss these risks explicitly. In a discussion with the VNG, the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the Secretary of State will also examine the possibility of providing information on welfare benefits. Mr Smeulders specifically asked: what do you think of the House being informed by journalists and not by the Minister? I have written in my letter that this has to be changed and that I also recognise that it has been done too much in general and too little in detail, but that it has been a good explanation for this in recent years, namely that you also do not want to disturb the modus operandi of the fraudsters. But I fully acknowledge that this has really been too brief and that it needs to be better. That is why I have chosen this approach for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u151	That is one of the most important points for GroenLinks. The Minister rightly says that the Chamber was not informed, but we also had to read in the letter sent by the Minister to the Chamber this morning that the Minister himself was not aware and that the Ministry was not aware. The question I have is: how is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u152	As I have just said, the enforcement of social security schemes has been too much of the UWV itself in recent years, just as an independent administrative body. The culture has been there for a long time "this is the responsibility of the UWV and the Chamber, and also the Ministry, is informed on main lines." That is about the numbers and the annual performance indicators, I shall say. Similarly, information to the Chamber has been available in recent years. In all enforcement overviews, think about the state of execution.... also this information is attached to your Chamber. I have noted that I find this unsatisfactory, because it does not do justice to the real phenomena, let me just say that they occur and will continue to occur, because where there is talk of fraud and there are always people who are more creative about the new things. I have just outlined how we are going to make the provision of information more detailed, explicit and detailed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u153	I'm really worried about this. We're dealing with the UWV here. This will amount to EUR 25 billion a year. There's 18,000 men working there. The minister just indicated that he cannot indicate whether the UWV currently has enough people and money to carry out its core task adequately. Now we also need to hear that they do not keep the Ministry informed of large-scale fraud. Doesn't the Minister feel extremely vulnerable? That is my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u154	When Nieuwsuur came up with these revelations in the last few weeks, I was shocked, too. Mr Smeulders rightly said that. You have seen my response to the broadcast on 3 September, also here in Question Time. It wasn't played. I've had good conversations over the past few weeks about this situation, both internally and with the UWV. What is particularly important to me, including in the area of legislation and regulation, is that, with your Chamber, we are going to discuss these phenomena in much more detail in the future. This has just happened too little in detail in recent years. I think it is a shame, too, because if the information on what is happening is more detailed and descriptive, we can adapt recommendations and regulations much more quickly to avoid this really structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u155	The UWV is an implementation organisation. This will ensure that we as a chamber talk to the minister and not directly to the UWV. It is clear that a lot is not going well, both at the UWV and in the relationship between the UWV and the ministry. Can the Minister explain in more detail how those talks between the UWV and the top of the UWV and himself have gone over the past few weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u156	I think that's covered by the confidentiality of the conversations I have with the UWV. Those conversations must also remain confidential. Mr Smeulders cannot ask me to clap out of the school about these talks, precisely because we need to get this together in the future, because we are ultimately responsible for this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u157	Finally, Mr. Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u158	Finally. Look, the Minister asks us as Chamber, or may expect us as Chamber, that we trust in the UWV, that we trust that they do their job in a good way. He asks us to trust in the Ministry, and that we trust that they do their job in a good way. If it is said here now 'we do not know if the UWV has enough resources and people' and 'a lot has gone wrong, and I did not know that as a minister myself', then it will be very difficult for us as a Chamber to carry out our controlling task?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u159	That is why I am also making concrete proposals to improve the provision of information to the Chamber, so that you are also better aware of the different phenomena that are seen in practice. Then you also have the opportunity to ask me about what that means for legislation, for capacity and more structural. I think that this is a legitimate question from your Chamber, precisely in order to improve that information position. This is not something of the last two years, I say to Mr Smeulders. Actually, when you look back in the years, you see that this has always been the package of the UWV. The UWV has always stood at a distance as an independent administrative body. I find that unfortunate at the moment, also given these different phenomena of fraud. For the UWV and the SVB, we are simply going to do this more structured and better, as the Ministry of Health does much better. I think it is really an improvement, also for the steering relationship between the UWV and the Ministry of SZW, because it means that you need to work more together and know more about information than in the past. I just think that's a win. I also think it is simply a gain towards the future that this is being improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u160	I'd like to know how far you are with your answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u161	I think I've had a lot of specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u162	Yeah? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u163	The last block is the other block. Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP asked: do you share the view that supervision of the UWV should be improved? We have an internal audit firm at UWV. It was also reviewed by the Court of Auditors recently. It is truly independent within the UWV. It also assesses the internal management measures and management of the UWV, including the legality of the organisation's actions. The accounting department shall also verify that the rate of legality is correct. The external auditor of the UWV then makes a statement to the annual accounts in the public version of the annual report. It will assess whether the internal auditor of the UWV has come to his opinion with the correct working method. The Inspection SZW also supervises, inter alia, the effectiveness of the implementation and the way in which UWV, SVB and municipalities work together to achieve the goals in the field of work and income. So the short answer is no. There are structures and standard information exchanges. We have an independent internal audit service that does important work. The Court of Auditors examined the situation at UWV a year or two ago, where many things were positive. There were also a number of points of interest, including the steering relationship. That's a very interesting report to go over again. Mr Stoffer asked: should the control of fraud not be invested externally? The UWV is itself responsible for the legitimate provision of benefits and the handling of fraud. The internal audit service shall monitor them independently and assess internal management measures. An external auditor shall assess the internal auditor's assessment. I promised in the letter that the Audit Service would carry out an internal audit on the handling of the signals on fraud. A single audit approach has been adopted in recent years, also because of a variety of administrative burdens. The monitoring of the UWV under the single audit approach has recently been reviewed in collaboration with the General Court. There is external control of the processes that exist within the UWV. Mr Stoffer and Mr Wiersma also asked a question about the export WW. That's actually a different story. This is about the possibility of taking your WW benefit with you to another country within the European Union. Like the SGP and the VVD, I believe that in principle the country in which the unemployed person lives should be responsible for the right to unemployment benefit, because employment services and the monitoring of job applications, or you do your best, can only take place if you also have an idea of what the unemployed person is doing. That's how it's been arranged now. We are now having a debate in Europe on WW exports. This concerns Regulation 883, which I have also discussed with the Chamber on a regular basis. The idea is to extend the period of exportability of the WW. The Netherlands is against that. The Netherlands also voted against it at the European Council of Ministers. It is now in the European Parliament. I am also trying to get in touch with members of the European Parliament to bring this point to the fore, because I think that this actually makes it impossible to check whether someone is doing their best to get a job. We shouldn't want that all of us. This was the cup remaining. Mr. Chairman. I want to end with this. We see in practice that, unfortunately, where there are benefits and supplements, there is fraud. Every time we see creative new ways of taking advantage of community money. The first indignation must go mainly to the fraudsters. It is right that you have all drawn attention to this in the first place. Many great words of indignation have also gone towards the UWV. I understand the image and the emotions of this particular fraud case. However, as Mr Smeulders did in his first term, I am right to draw attention to all those hard-working staff at the UWV, who are 18 000, who are trying to manage the benefit system and are working day and night with the right to provide and maintain the schemes. I think I should have said that as the last word in the Chamber, because there is a very hard work there to give social security benefits to everyone who has been unlucky enough to become ill, disabled or unemployed on time. I'd like to be the last to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u164	Still a little while. We have to go hard on fraud. That's what we're gonna see in the next few months. For some temporary employment agencies I will not appeal to the entire temporary employment industry. With the current regulations it is a earning model: there is seasonal work, I hire someone, it does not cost me so much and then someone goes out and into the WW. Then there will be fraud. That's a earning model, including for temp agencies. The Minister will talk to the temporary employment agencies, but will measures be followed? Because there is also a temptation in this for agencies that want evil with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u165	I am inclined to agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk on that last point. I also wrote in last night's letter that it also depends on the economic situation. In a bad economic climate, with a broad labour market, it is perhaps very advantageous for people to take advantage of a WW benefit when there is no job at all, whereas in times of high-class economic activity, as is the case at present, there is just enough work and it is therefore very unwise to do so. But Mr Gijs van Dijk is right: the incentives in this system may be wrong. That is why I want to work out in the pilot, as I have mentioned it and what sounds very soft and experimental, how we can tackle precisely this point, where I believe there is the greatest risk of fraud. I hope I have been able to emphasise that the question is not whether we are going to do it, but above all how we are going to do it. There is indeed a earning model behind it. I agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk. We should try to scorch it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u166	I think that would be really wise. The fraudsters must be dealt with, and perhaps even harder the organisations that make fraud possible. Then I would also like to mention in the discussion with the temporary agency industry, and I hope that the Minister will take this with him, that it is important to work on certification. For example, we have the SNA hallmark. I hope that it will be made very clear: we have temporary employment agencies that do it by the book and we have temporary employment agencies, including in the Westland, which we know is just wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u167	We take them into the conversations with the ABU and the NBBU, which have already started.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u168	I think I missed one more answer to one more question. I asked whether the basic benefit system could not be reviewed again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u169	The basic benefit? Oh, the fact that after six months of work, you're entitled to three months of WW. You're right. That's the question you asked. I find it complicated, as I say in all honesty, that you then actually exclude people with a vulnerable position in the labour market who have paid contributions and are entitled to a WW, from a safety net in the event of unemployment, because there is fraud. I'd like to start on the other side. I would like to start with how we tackle fraud in an effective and targeted way, without letting other people suffer. Otherwise, you will undermine the solidarity and appreciation of the social security system. That is my preferred route, I say to Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u170	The Minister convinced me. Let's start first on the side of the fraud approach. If that doesn't work, I'll come back to this in the future. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u172	Mr Wiersma, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u173	I'm gonna do my best, Mr. Chairman. I'm not usually successful when you ask, but I'm gonna do my best. I'm sorry, but I'm going to come back to something, because I forgot something at the head of information at the Chamber. I said in my first term that we also filed motions as a VVD at different times in the Chamber. We have always paid attention to this and asked how the Minister has reacted in the past. In this context, he sent his predecessor, Mr Asscher, to the Chamber in 2014, of course, an impact assessment on EU labour migration. It also states that there are situations where there is an unreasonable use of benefits and social benefits and that the Cabinet intends to introduce a number of measures to counter this latter. I would like to know from the Minister what signals he has received about this in recent years, earlier than 2016, and how he has acted on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u174	You understand that I can't answer that from my head. I'll check it out for you. It's about 2014 and then I was doing very different things. I'd like to inform the Chamber of what happened to it during that intervening period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u175	You may say yes or no, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u176	I'd love to. Is that okay, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u177	Look, you can do it. Thank you. You were done answering your question, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u178	Yeah, I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u179	Then we'll go to the second term. Then I will start with Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u180	Mr. Chairman. Many questions have not been answered about the large-scale fraud involving WW payments that Nieuwsuur has revealed. This debate is therefore not yet ready. I think it is our duty to look into this thoroughly. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Bureau to set up a parliamentary inquiry into the alleged WW fraud,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-549]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u181	That's a motion addressed to the Presidium, Chairman. So I await your judgment with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u182	That's good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u183	Mr. Chairman. I have two other motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a solid system of address data is being developed, with the address in the Basic Registration Persons (BRP) now leading;]] [[Whereas the Government is considering the possibility of registering the residence address of migrant workers in the BRP during the first four months;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the UWV to fully transfer the address registration to the BRP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas fraud involving WW benefits is detrimental to social security support;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to recover unduly paid benefits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-550]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Van Brenk, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-551]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u184	I have a question about the second motion. Does Mr Jasper van Dijk agree with me that we must ensure that we do not make it impossible for people who need someone to help them because of circumstances and who may be living at a different address but who are able to get that help? Because this concerns me with his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u185	No, I don't think that's the point I'm making with this motion. I intend with this motion that the UWV gives up its own address registration and really goes to municipal address registration, because I think a lot of problems can be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u186	That is also what you said in your first term. That was a very extensive exchange with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u187	Finally, one more question. I had a taste of coalition support for the idea of having a hearing with those responsible for this drama. I ask the Minister whether he agrees that the Chamber should be able to hear all the staff of the UWV and whether he is not going to lie down for that. Can I have an affirmative answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u188	All that goes through the committee. Thank you. I now turn to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for replying. I must say that it was not everywhere and on every subject. If you see that there has been large-scale fraud at the UWV, but that the Minister was not aware of it, so he informed us this morning, and that he cannot indicate whether the UWV has enough people and resources to carry out its core task, we find that at least disturbing. After the answer I have the following question: what will the next scoop of Nieuwsuur be? What's the next surprise? 'Cause we don't really know. Or at least we know the minister probably doesn't know. Can the Minister guarantee that from now on he will proactively inform us? Then back to the UWV. The UWV should either help people to work or provide benefits if there is no job for them yet. It's not going well right now. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that WW benefits have been wrongly paid on a large scale;]] [[having regard to the fact that public money has been spent illegally;]] [[Whereas this is extremely undesirable as it undermines the support for the social security system;]] [[calls on the General Court to investigate the legality and effectiveness of the payment of WW benefits by the UWV, including the exchange of information with and guidance by the Ministry of Social Affairs, as well as the impact of the cuts in recent years and the intensifications of the coalition agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-552]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u190	Mr. Chairman. In the words of Jasper van Dijk, this debate is not yet ready. A lot has to be done to really tackle this fraud. I would like to draw particular attention to the following. Of course it is good to tackle all possible cases of fraud now, but I would also like to call on the Minister to look at it. I know how complicated it is, but we can look back ten years to see if we can do justice to all those people who have paid the premium properly by looking at the extent to which we can recover benefits, and then preferably back as far as possible. Because that means maintaining our solidarity system and also the confidence in it. That is what this debate is about, of course. Then there is the broadcasting sector. You have to understand that I am not speaking to the whole of the temporary agency industry, but in particular to the agencies that are helping fraudsters as a earning model and are making a profit out of it. I hear the Minister agrees with us that this needs to be looked at. I ask, apart from a conversation, really firm steps to prevent that. Finally, one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many migrant workers are employed in the temporary employment sector;]] [[noting that a registration obligation for foreign workers in Belgium is mandatory and used to detect fraud, among others;]] [[Whereas a registration obligation may be an important tool for understanding the number of foreign workers and for detecting fraud;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the obligation to register workers at temporary employment agencies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-553]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u191	Mr President, thank you very much. The next motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there are structural problems with the UWV in the fight against fraud and the Court of Justice has not or has not been informed;]] [[expresses the need for a parliamentary inquiry into the UWV debacle and invites the Bureau to organise this parliamentary inquiry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the relevant (former) directors of the UWV are held accountable between 2011-2018 and that appropriate consequences (including dismissal) are associated with their conduct of malpractice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Mr Bruins was chairman of the UWV's Board of Directors between 2012 and 2017 and was therefore the main responsible for the ongoing mischief there;]] [[calls on the Government to halve Mr Bruins's ministerial salary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that when applying for a WW benefit it is checked by default whether the applicant is entitled to a WW benefit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-554]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-555]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-556]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-557]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u192	And the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to recover the amount of fraud up to the last cent plus fine and statutory interest and to ensure that the claim is not subject to a limitation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-558]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u193	I have some doubts as to what I should like to do with the motion on half the salary, because if that motion is adopted, then is the matter closed as far as Mr De Jong is concerned? Can Mr Bruins just sit there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u194	I think Mr Bruins should have been fired. I think he should have quit. That's what I think. Now it works with the VVD so that, at the moment you have failed at the UWV, you can apparently get away with anything if VVD', that you even get a ministerial post. I didn't plead for a parliamentary inquiry for nothing either. Then all the roles must be taken into account, including those of Mr Bruins. I have also tabled another motion, for example on the current members of the board. Two of them are currently active within the UWV. I think they should get away from the UWV anyway. That's what I've made clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u195	You made that clear during the debate. We are not going to have the debate again, because Mr De Jong's position has been discussed extensively, so now it is really about the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u196	Yeah, that's what it's about for me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u197	Yes, but not in response to that debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u198	I think it is a strange, half-hearted motion, because why doesn't Mr De Jong just say that Mr Bruins should go home instead of halving his salary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u199	What's wrong with telling him to turn in his salary? At the moment when we are conducting a parliamentary inquiry and from that we can see even more of what Mr Bruins has done, you will find me here again. So I hope the rest of the Chamber will have an insight into what exactly happened. But as we all see it now from Nieuwsuur, so much has failed that he has to turn in at least half his salary. That makes sense to me. So I am also assuming Mr Van Dijk's support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u200	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wiersma on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u201	Mr. Chairman. I'll start my motion right away and some final words. Because one of the important points we see before this debate is how you see it in the future. The Minister outlined a lot of developments that could have an impact on that. The influx of more migrant workers, European regulations and sophisticated methods that are being devised. And in that context, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has a good social system, which is more generous in comparison with other countries and can therefore be attractive to fraud;]] [[Whereas social security fraud undermines the support of the social system;]] [[considers that the Netherlands should have a clear view of where the risks of fraud lie in social security;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the social security system for fraud and to pay particular attention to the claims to social security in the event of short-term presence in the Netherlands, including seasonal sectors, and the exportability of social security,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-559]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u202	Mr. Chairman. This debate was about a lot, but for the VVD there are two important elements: a strong signal to the fraudsters of the past that fraud never pays off and the approach to the future. For the future, the Minister has taken a lot of steps, but on the strong signals to the fraudsters of the past, the Minister says: that is difficult. I get that. At the same time, I hope that he will feel encouraged to show solidity there and do everything in his power to get that money back to the Netherlands, because it is not to be explained that people who work hard for their benefits see people celebrating holidays or doing extra jobs in Poland.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u203	Thank you. Mr Van Weyenberg has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Heerma will shortly be tabling a motion on my behalf to look more closely at the policy rules that give the UWV more instruments. I myself have a motion on capacity. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a changing labour market with more temporary work and greater involvement of migrant workers increases the need for control;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine whether the existing enforcement capacity at the UWV is sufficient and whether the coherence between payout and enforcement is sufficiently secure, and to send this analysis to the Chamber before 1 February 2019;]] [[calls on the Government to also consider the desirability and possibility of a business case for additional enforcement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-560]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u205	Mr. Chairman. The debate does not end here. We're still getting a lot of information. I have also asked, among other things, for more information about the ICT systems and what you can get out of them. We will be kept informed of the actions being carried out. I would like to look with my colleague Jasper van Dijk to see if we can get any more information, at a hearing with people who are now responsible and with experts. Mr. Chairman. For me, it stays above all else: it has to be better. The fraud is unacceptable. The Minister is now putting things in motion to really improve it, to deal with this fraud. I am assuming that we will also be able to see firm progress quickly, both by looking at what we can get back. I agree with Mr Wiersma, but above all by looking at the future: how do we organise it better, how do we prevent fraud and how do we deal with people who are screwing around? This certainly applies equally to temporary employment agencies, for example, and not just to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u206	Thank you. Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u207	Mr. Chairman. Steering and getting the UWV in order takes a lot of time, time we don't have. Because the money is still flowing away, and we have to stop it. Human power and resources must be in balance with what you demand from an organization. That's why we've got the next few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in January 2017 the General Court did not see any signs of a serious imbalance between tasks and budget of the UWF;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the extent to which there is currently an imbalance between tasks and budget, the extent to which the inadequate approach to WW fraud can be traced back to available enforcement capacity, and to take appropriate measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the UWV should be optimally equipped for all its tasks, including combating fraud with benefits;]] [[Calls on the Government to review the overall management and communication within the UWV and between UWV and the Ministry of SZW and to take all necessary improvement measures;]] [[calls on the government to examine whether the UWF's ambitions and resources are sufficiently balanced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Brenk, Mr Smeulders, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-561]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Brenk, Mr Smeulders, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-562]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u208	I would like to thank the Minister for sending us the task of investigation to the Chamber. At least that's a positive thing. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u209	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u210	Mr. Chairman. Several Members in this House have said in the second term that this debate is not yet ready. That's right. If you follow this debate, you will know that in January we will receive a rather solid letter from the Minister with a lot of topics. I'm sure that's gonna be a big letter. Then we must continue this debate anyway. With regard to administrative law, which the Minister indicated he had to chew on it, I really think that it should not be distracted or replaced by criminal enforcement. The Minister indicated in his first term that in the Netherlands you are innocent until proven guilty. Unfortunately, the opposite is true in administrative law. In administrative law, you're guilty until you prove your own diminished culpability. It may be necessary to enforce administrative law, but there really must be criminal enforcement. Then there's the pilot the minister's gonna do. I really believe that this much better control of the culpability of unemployment, which has been widely expressed here in the Chamber, needs to be taken into account, and that legislation and regulations must also be taken into account. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the UWV does not or hardly check the culpability of unemployment when applying for the benefit;]] [[noting that this method presents a high risk of fraud involving unemployment benefits by migrant workers in particular in the case of temporary work;]] [[Whereas unemployment benefits should be available for people who become unemployed involuntarily and that abuse should be combated;]] [[considers that the UWV has a duty to monitor and enforce this;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the UWV with a much better control of the culpability of unemployment when applying for a benefit, and to ensure that the UWV has the necessary legal capacity and resources to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Pieter Heerma, Wiersma, Van Weyenberg, Smeulders, Gijs van Dijk, Stoffer, De Jong, Van Brenn and Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-563]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u211	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with a compliment to the Minister. You're not here to defend yourself today. You are open to looking at: how can I actually grasp and solve the big problem that is going on here? I really think that's worth a compliment. I really appreciate that. But that's not what we're here for. That fraud really needs to be dealt with. Fortunately, you are going to do an external research into culture. We will also really look critically at that culture. Mind you, that compliment also means an encouragement to work extremely hard. I had considered tabling two motions, but the Minister prevented me from submitting the one on the basic benefit, which is actually a bit of the revolving door payment. I'm gonna hold onto that for a while. I do have another motion. It's about the middlemen. That motion may be a bit firm, but I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this later. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the use of intermediaries makes it difficult to check the legality of benefits;]] [[Whereas the use of personal services, including the use of interpreters, should not require the use of intermediaries to apply for benefits;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit the possibility for intermediaries to carry out legal acts for the benefit of another person,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Brenk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-564]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u212	I still have one answer from the Minister in the second term, but I'm sure that will be fine. It's about the exclusion after fraud. For the rest, I wish the Minister a great deal of strength in the difficult task ahead of him in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u213	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u214	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the questions and comments that have been put and for the motions that have been tabled. I'm going to answer by spokesperson in second term. I shall begin with Mr Jasper Van Dijk of the SP. His question was: if the Lower House organises a hearing, can the Chamber invite employees of the UWV? Of course, that is always up to the Chamber, but it is good practice for me to allow people to act in Parliament. I'll give you my word on that. The Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 549 is addressed to the Presidium, so I have no judgment on that. In the Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 550 the government is asked to instruct the UWV to fully transfer to the BRP with regard to the registration of the address. I've got three layers there. 1. Yeah, that's what we're gonna do. That's also written in the letter. 2. I don't want a shadow administration at the UWV. I think that is also in line with the discussion we have just had. 3. For the first few months, the Registration Non Residents (RNI) applies, as I wrote in my letter. The Minister of BZK will start a pilot with the residence address, because this concerns people we want to know where they are and where they live, but who are often not yet registered in the BRP. This is, of course, particularly about migrant workers. The combination of these two should identify that risk. Then there is the Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 551.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u216	But what's the verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u217	Judge Room, with the nuance I've made of it. Then the Jasper van Dijk c.s. motion. in piece No. 551: whereas fraud involving WW benefits is detrimental to social security support; calls on the government to make every effort to recover benefits. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I have already said in my first reply that I want this. I have also tried to manage the expectations of the Chamber. There must be proof, and that is a complicated process. I just want to be clear and honest about that. But I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then I am in the presence of Mr Smeulders. I would like to make one comment about the tone. Mr Smeulders wondered whether the UWV could carry out the core tasks; he now questioned this, said the Minister himself. I did not put it that way, and I would like to mention this explicitly in my second term. A year and a half ago, the General Court investigated the UWV. At that time, it was found that there were sufficient resources to carry out the core tasks. I have only indicated openly to Mr Smeulders that I am now going to investigate what these signs of fraud mean for enforcement capacity. That is how I put it, and Mr Smeulders makes it: it is all complicated, it is unclear whether there is sufficient capacity. It was examined a year and a half ago, and then the Court of Auditors concluded that it was in order. If I can understand Mr Smeulders in the spur of a good debate in such a way that we are open to all these signals and that, if such an investigation gives rise to it, I also look open to what is needed, then I think we agree with each other. Mr Smeulders has also tabled a few motions. In the motion Smeulders/Van Brenn on piece No. 552 he asks the General Court to investigate the legality and effectiveness of the payment of WW benefits by the UWV, including the exchange of information with guidance by the Ministry of Social Affairs, as well as the impact of the cuts in recent years and the intensification of the government agreement. So this has already been done by the General Court of Auditors, one and a half or two years ago. In my term I also indicated which investigations and what actions I would like to start with regard to this residence fraud and the WW benefit fraud. What he is asking is actually a repeat of moves and that is why I would like to discourage the motion. I will come back to this in a moment in relation to another motion, which deals more specifically with enforcement. Gijs van Dijk van de PvdA. The debate is not yet ready. Very much so. His motion in part No. 553 concerns the Belgian example of a compulsory registration of workers at temporary employment agencies. I want to investigate this, as I have already promised, and include it in the investigation. Against that background, I'm giving that motion judgment chamber. I have a few comments to make. I have reservations about the discussion on the free movement of services. This discussion has also raged in Belgium. There has been experience with this system, but there has also been a lot of criticism. So I should like to make that point in advance. With effect from 1 January 2019, the SVB will carry out a reporting obligation for posted workers and self-employed persons for foreign employers, within the framework of the WagwEU, which we have already implemented. Against this background, I would also like to give this motion for a resolution to the House, but with these nuances. And I'm gonna take the request. In his motion, Mr De Jong asks for item No. 554 for a parliamentary inquiry. It's not addressed to me. It's addressed to the Bureau. I don't have an opinion on that. At least, I have an opinion on that, but I don't judge it, because I'm not about that. The motion in part No. Mr De Jong's 556 concerns the discussion on the former directors of the UWV, the board of directors in the period from 2011 to 2018. I think we have had an extensive debate on this, including on qualifications. Against that background, I'd like to discourage that motion. The same applies to the De Jong motion in part No. 557. We have also had a debate on this. So dissuade it. Let's just stick with that. In the motion in part No. 558 asks the Government to ensure that the application for a WW benefit is checked by default as to whether the applicant is entitled to a WW benefit. As I have said, I agree with Mr De Jong. The right to a WW must, of course, be reviewed. There is a problem there, as is evident from the Newshour broadcast, but I agree with Mr De Jong on the general point of departure as he puts it in his motion. That's why I'm judging Chamber. This does not mean that fraud is always prevented. It may also be that people lie, for example, and you can't get that out of the check or the systems, so you'll need additional enforcement activities. But Mr De Jong and I also agree on this. In his last motion, in part No. 559, Mr De Jong asked the government to recover the amount of fraud up to the last cent plus fine and legal interest and also to ensure that the claim would not lapse. I've got the motion in part no. Mr Jasper van Dijk, President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with the Fraud Act, a collection period of ten years applies. That is also the legal framework that I have to adhere to, so against that background I have to deal with the De Jong motion in part No. 559 dissuade. But I've got the Jasper van Dijk motion on piece number one. 551 judgment of Chamber given and finds that the spirit of this motion-De Jong is in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u218	Short response, Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u219	The Minister could also say: I do not agree with those ten years and I propose to ensure that this type of fraud cannot be allowed to lapse because they are constantly removed from the stack of frauds. So in other words, does the Minister agree to accomplish what is now here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u220	No. What I do agree with Mr De Jong is that Mr Jasper van Dijk's motion is that it should be used to recover it. I'm bound by laws and regulations. In these laws and regulations is the Fraud Act and that period of ten years is included. If Mr De Jong says that nothing should be allowed to lapse, the Fraud Act must be amended and there are no intentions for that. By the way, I am not talking about this myself, but about a colleague in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u221	I will then look with my own colleagues to see if they can bring that up with the other minister's colleague. But my question is whether the Minister agrees that every effort must always be made to bring these frauds back. Let me put it this way...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u222	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u223	This Minister has said in his own measures that you sometimes have to adapt legislation and regulations to that effect. My question now is whether he is prepared to consult with his colleagues in the cabinet to amend legislation and regulations in order to make it possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u224	In my view, I am saying it on my head: this Fraud Act was amended in 2017, also in response to a lot of criticism and discussion on debt issues and unenforceability of the Fraud Act of 2011. So the cabinet has no intention of doing so. It remains the point on which Mr Jasper van Dijk has tabled an excellent motion and which I have given to the Chamber of Justice, in which the spirit of Mr De Jong's motion is included. I would actually recommend withdrawing her and supporting Mr Jasper van Dijk's motion, but of course I cannot say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u225	But you already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u226	Yeah, I told you. Then there is Mr Wiersma's motion on item No. 559. I agree with him. It cannot be explained that someone will be checked if he has sent in a form one day late and the system is now open. I have already said to Mr Jasper van Dijk that we are doing everything we can. Mr Wiersma's motion calls on the government to examine the social security system for fraud and to pay particular attention to claims to social security in the event of a short-term presence in the Netherlands in the seasonal sectors and the exportability of social security. I'd like to give him a room for judgment. It is actually a support for the proposal I made in my very first reaction to the risks of abuse. That is the way it is meant to be, but it is a little wider because it is also about the system. I would add that exportability is, of course, a European debate which is now under way. So judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u227	The motion in part No. 560.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u228	Mr Van Weyenberg's motion asks the government to look at the desirability and possibility of a business case for additional enforcement and asks the government to examine the state of the enforcement capacity, whether it is sufficient. I actually promised that in my first term. I would like to look at the possibilities and tools to ensure that fraud can be prevented and tackled. I shall return to that in the letter of January. That's why you're judging Chamber. Am I missing questions in the meantime? I don't think so. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 561 by Mrs Van Brenn. It invites the government to examine the extent to which there is currently an imbalance between tasks and budget, the extent to which the inadequate approach to WW fraud can be traced back and appropriate measures taken. If this is only about enforcement, it is actually the same motion that Mr Van Weyenberg has just tabled on item No. 560. If the full scope of the budget is meant, I must nevertheless refer, as I did with Mr Smeulders, to the Court of Auditors' investigation of a year and a half ago. I could also suggest that it be merged with Mr Van Weyenberg's motion on enforcement. Otherwise, I think she's too broad and I have to dissuade her. Then the motion to part No. Mrs van Brenk's 562 report on ambitions and resources. I can actually give the same answer as I have just given to Mr Smeulders. A year and a half ago this happened on the steering relationship between UWV and SZW by the General Court. What I really want to look at explicitly is whether there is capacity on the enforcement side, also in the light of the new information from the Nieuwsuur revelations. But in full width, that just happened. That's why I didn't recommend it. Then the motion to part No. 563. Mr Heerma also said that this debate is not ready. That's right. I will say in a moment, at the end of my term, what I will put in the letter of January, so that it is also clear what the Chamber can expect from me. In this motion by Mr Heerma, the government is invited to work with the UWV towards a much better control of the culpability of unemployment when applying for a benefit, and to ensure that the UWV has the necessary legal capacity and resources to do so. This motion is wide, signed by the entire Chamber. Of course, I'm judging her room, and I'm gonna get to it. That is what I meant by the letters of 1 October and yesterday, but I do think that this is a support to move forward very quickly. Mr Stoffer had another question open. Can you settle it, or can you give someone who repeats benefits no longer? No, that last one can't be. If people are insured for employee insurance, they are entitled to a benefit. But you can settle the score. So if there are still outstanding amounts, they can be offset against future rights, within that ten-year period. Then we have Mr Stoffer's motion, in part No. 564. It invites the Government to prohibit the possibility of intermediaries carrying out legal acts for the benefit of another person. Mr Stoffer himself said that this might be a bit of a rough motion at the moment. There are also very legitimate reasons for the intervention of intermediaries. Intermediaries may be parents, or family members who support people in applying for benefits. There are trade unions that help people who find the regulation complicated. I think it would be a shame if we didn't. And I also believe that everyone is entitled to assistance in applying for something as vulnerable as a social security allowance. Against that background, I'd like to discourage the motion. I understand that this was not entirely Mr Stoffer's intention either. The focus is on the crooked intermediaries. That's what we have the registration, the blacklist for, and also the cooperation with the bona fide intermediaries. But I wouldn't think it was a good idea to ban generics. Such a ban would also make people vulnerable. That's why I advise against this motion. Finally, I come to the letter which the Chamber will receive in January, President. In that letter we want to give an outline of the letter of signal that we will send for the first time before the summer of 2019. This concerns an annual piece of UWV, SVB and SZW together, about the signals, the phenomena at the UWV and the SVB. That piece also provides insight into how many signals are received, internally and externally, what is the nature of the signals and how they were picked up. And it contains a policy recommendation, with a policy response on my part. That is what I am trying to send to your Chamber every year before the summer, so that I can discuss this with your Chamber in a structured and anchored manner. But in January the plan will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u229	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u230	Furthermore, in the January letter, I will give an interim report on the measures announced in the letters. This concerns the solid system of address registration based on the BRP, the comparison of addresses, the tightening of the paper application, the collaboration within the social domain, the collaboration with bona fide intermediaries and the registration of intermediaries, research into the culture within the UWV, the exploration of the collaboration partners and the data analyses that we are going to start within the UWV on the work patterns. In any case, we expect to be able to offer concrete insights and first results in January on the aspects of research culture, the data analyses and the address comparison. We're gonna work hard on that. I must have made an additional commitment in the course of the debate. I can see Mr Van Weyenberg watching. What I have in front of me is from before the debate. Those commitments are in the report and we will take them with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u231	They're all in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u232	Yes, but I am already setting out, in the context of expectations management, what the Chamber can expect in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u233	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u234	When can we see the Minister's research mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u235	Quick, quick. We're gonna get this going fast. I don't have a specific date in my head yet, but I'll get back to the Chamber on this soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u236	I see you're having a lot of trouble saying goodbye to the Minister. Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u237	That's exactly what it is, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the fact that the Minister is drawing up a list of what he wants to come back to in January, but I think that everyone has looked at this a little hard because much more has been promised in this debate. I would actually appreciate it if the Minister would come forward with a note in the short term which would include everything that was promised in the debate, so that we could have a complete list of what we can expect in the letter in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u238	I think the minister suggested...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u239	Mr President, I would like to say that, and then I will come straight back to Mrs Van Brenk's specific question about the research mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u240	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate. I thank everyone, including the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-9.u241	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
