ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u1	The next item is the report on general consultation Copyright, with Mr Kwint of the SP as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The debate has been a while. We were left with the necessary questions and, of course, the necessary wishes. In any case, each creator is entitled to a proportionate and equitable remuneration on paper. That is still complicated in practice, but on paper they have that right. Unless they're making video on demand, and that's weird. What is also strange is that we have a dispute committee that is not mandatory, not even for bodies that we subsidise. In any case, do so now, we would say, and prepare a legislative amendment by 2020 which will also allow other bodies to do so. That's why the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that an ever-increasing shift from linear television to video on demand is taking place, that in the past creators were able to come to terms with a number of VOD distributors with the greatest possible difficulty and that many creators were thus deprived of proportionate and equitable remuneration;]] [[considers that creators are entitled to proportionate and equitable remuneration in all cases and regardless of the medium;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the existing exception in the Copyright Act to proportionate and equitable remuneration for video on demand,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29838-97]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u3	And finally, the Disputes Committee. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Disputes Committee on Copyright has dealt with one case in its two-year existence and that, as a result of voluntary participation, only a small proportion of the clients have joined this committee;]] [[considers that a dispute settlement committee can only function if a sector fully commits itself to this body;]] [[calls on the Government to make it compulsory for all organisations (co-) financed by the Netherlands State to join the Disputes Committee on Copyright and to examine how a compulsory link can be formed for other organisations, and to inform the Court about this for the purposes of the amendment of the Supervisory and Dispute Resolution Act collective management organisations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29838-98]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Kwint has just mentioned the Committee on Disputes. I remember the Minister also saying during the debate that it would be good if more organisations joined and had a cup of coffee with them. We've been two months. Can he tell us whether he has burned his lips or whether some information has come up during that cup of coffee? How are we doing? I've only got a motion on that just in case. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that important clients such as the Press Group and the Dutch Public Broadcasting have not joined the Disputes Commission, that this means that creators are deprived of an easily accessible form of dispute resolution and rely on costly judicial proceedings;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the highest possible number of clients to join the Disputes Committee and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29838-99]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u5	I have a question for Mrs Buitenweg. Not only was this minister going to have coffee. I remember Minister Slob was going to talk to the NPO. We've had a letter in between. The Minister has said that there is no answer yet. Now I hear you say that you're "just in case" filing a motion. Do you really think that's the way it's supposed to be? We've asked the cabinet a few questions. That has a number of things left open. If we're all gonna file a motion just to be safe, we're gonna be here for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u6	The certainty was that otherwise I would have to wait for the Minister's answer and then no longer have time to table a motion. This is the moment. I believe that the Minister can make it clear what his means are to promote this. Actually, there was nothing about that in the letter. You're talking about the letter, and I'm about to make one more point about the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u7	Finally. I think this is not the last time we talk about copyright.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u8	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u9	If we use a VAO like this every time to do with one and so on... I'm just having a little trouble with that. That's why I wanted to bring that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u10	I don't think I'm quite understood. The point is that I do not read in the letter how the Minister is promoting this, when I think we all want it to happen. In a moment, the Minister will answer me and I will not be able to table that motion. That's why I said, just in case. But I do think that this VAO is the right time to table this motion, because I would like to send a message to the Minister, namely that we want him to really see how this can be done. This can partly be done by looking at the subsidy relationship, as Mr Kwint said. I did not sign that motion because I doubt that is the best solution. I also want to look at all the other options. That's actually what my motion is proposing and what I haven't seen in the letter yet. Then I would like to make one more point. In that letter or in another letter, it is also explained how collective agreements are to be declared binding. It has been said that price agreements can be made if the contractor and the contractor agree and the collective agreements are made binding by the Ministry. If that does not happen and there are no agreements, then there is unfair pricing, the Minister says. I wonder how far down that can go. Is there a time when the Minister says that the public interest is at stake because it affects photojournalism? May someone at some point pay €0.03 or even €0.00 or will there be a moment when the government intervenes and says: there really must be a minimum, otherwise we will touch the core of photojournalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u11	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. Mrs. Van der Graaf had also applied, but I do not see them. I shall suspend for a few moments and then give the floor to the Minister for Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u12	I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the question raised by Mrs Buitenweg about collective price fixing and whether there is a minimum. That minimum is, of course, mostly determined by the creators themselves. We know the idea of negotiating prices and contract freedom. Someone's willing to pay for something. The other says: I want at least as much for it. Then the maker says at some point: I do it for that or I don't do it for that. I can very well imagine that there are situations where makers say at some point: well, we just don't do it for that. That's the bottomline. Then there are the collective agreements. If all parties, customers and creators come out, there is a possibility to make collective agreements on this. This is in principle a breach of competition law, but as soon as it is confirmed by the public authorities, for example, that it is in the public interest that such agreements are made, they can be approved. There's a basis for that in the law. Then the motions that have been tabled, starting with the motion in part No. 97. It's about the exception in the law for video on demand. It is no exception that there should be no reasonable remuneration for film makers who are shown or watched on demand. Only the exception is that there is no legal obligation of collective management as is the case with linear management. That exception did not come in for nothing at the time. This has to do with the fact that if you would legally require collective management for these services, Dutch operators and consumers would have to pay for all Dutch and non-Dutch film works. But because of the fact that non-Dutch works are mainly looked at on demand, this de facto leads to a substantial flow of money abroad. Dutch consumers will then pay for the American films that are shown. Now they're doing the same thing linearly. So you could say: what is wrong with that, because there are also creators who are entitled to a reasonable remuneration? Well, the nasty thing is it's going to be one-way. On for example linear there are international agreements that go both ways, so you have a fair system. Video on demand is not yet the case. Then you'll get us all to make arrangements. If you do this through compulsory collective management, it will mainly lead to Dutch consumers paying for something that consumers in other countries do not pay for. I would find that undesirable right now. Because such a system of international agreements does not yet exist, whereas the more conventional forms of imaging material do, other agreements have been made. There are voluntary agreements so that Dutch makers receive a fee. Makers have united in the PAM, the Portal Audiovisual Makers. The producers, broadcasters and distributors have united in RODAP. They have entered into a voluntary agreement for the exploitation of Dutch film. Now not everyone at RODAP is connected, like Netflix. That is also what has been agreed. They need the permission of the producer affiliated to RODAP to offer a film on demand. Subsequently, PAM and RODAP agreed that such authorisation would be granted provided that the collective management organisation received from the creators a fee from the operator. Similarly, the non-RODAP producers are bound by the agreements between PAM and RODAP. These agreements have been made for five years and run until 1 January 2020. Then everything will be evaluated and reviewed. I'd like to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u14	That would dissuade the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u15	Yeah, so I wouldn't recommend this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u16	Since we have not yet made our own agreements, do we intend to maintain a situation in which the products of this type are not paid or not paid enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u17	Well, that's not exactly true. We have decided that there must be legally binding collective management. There are agreements between creators on the one hand and producers and cablers on the other. Alone, they're complicated. I also know that there are creators who say there is a lot of uncertainty about it. Moreover, I believe it is about films or decisions taken after 1 January 2017. It takes a lot of time to make a movie, so the first movies that this relates to may appear on the market in the near future. The scheme has therefore not yet proved itself in this respect, and it does not concern old work. But it is not that no agreements have been made at all about compensation. There are, and I can also see that there are two signatures underneath: the signatures of producers and distributors on the one hand, and the signatures of creators on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u18	I can understand that from those makers; that is because there is no other arrangement. I do have difficulty in maintaining this now, in this way, and in this way creating a problem until 2020. I mean, I don't think a party like Amazon is bound by these agreements at all, whereas that's about one of the biggest video-on-demand providers. It is precisely in the context of improving the position of those creators that it is very just to level it out across the board?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u19	Let me take a look into the future. If, at some point, there is going to be a market in which, as with linear agreements, there are international agreements and there are two directions, then I would think that is a good development. I just don't believe that if we take this one-sidedly from the Netherlands, this will lead to a fair system. This only leads to a system in which Dutch consumers pay for a very large part of what is made abroad, while foreign consumers, for example, do not pay for a Dutch product that is seen elsewhere in Europe. I would therefore like to enter into this discussion, but not only in the Netherlands, but as far as I am concerned with my colleagues in Europe, also to see how we can make global agreements on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u20	Motion two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u21	The second motion, the one in part No. 98, I think it's too definite. That is why I advise against it, because it assumes a compulsory membership of the dispute committees. I very much believe in alternative forms of conflict mediation, mediation and all of it. But this ultimately stands or falls to the willingness and belief that parties themselves have to do it. Take problems in the domestic sphere: for example, if you tell people that they have to do mediation and everyone says that they have no faith in that in advance, it won't work. So I'm very much in favour of that, but then you have to convince people that it's useful, and that it's ultimately better for all parties. I would therefore like to do it with persuasion, but not with an obligation, as this motion suggests. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u22	In two years, this committee has dealt with one case. And persuasion doesn't help here, because you have a fundamentally distorted relationship of power. Why in God's name would a large organization, which has three floors full of lawyers ready, go to a dispute committee to take on one freelancer with someone who just finished law school? There is no convincing argument for those large parties to join. That is precisely why the imposition of a dispute committee is so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u23	Such a forced process along the Disputes Committee makes no sense at all if the same parties then go to court. In the end, this move to justice is also constitutionally determined; we cannot cut it off. So we cannot now tell the parties that they must join a dispute settlement committee and that they must not go to court after that. That's not the way things are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u24	Short, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u25	With that argument, that people can still go to court, you might as well not do the whole dispute settlement committee, right? The whole idea of the Disputes Committee is that you will then get a ruling on it. And of course, after that, parties can decide that they will continue. But if the argument is that they can still proceed... Well, they can do that with a voluntary dispute committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u26	Exactly. It also contains the power of this type of dispute resolution. In the end, they only work if both parties see the usefulness of their dispute not in court but in front of such a committee. 'Cause if it's gonna be a must, parties are gonna open a whole can of lawyers there, too. And I don't think that one case that's been running was really the textbook example of a case without a huge tour of lawyers. It has been a rather expensive case, which has also lasted a very long time. Fine if that's done, but if that's the front portal from an extra step to the judge where we're going to do it over again, then compulsory membership of a dispute committee is just an extra step that makes it even more expensive and slower. I don't think that's gonna help anyone. In other words, I very much believe in dispute resolution through committees of this kind, especially because I hope that the parties concerned will see the point, as with mediation in the domestic sphere, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u27	Finally, the motion in part No. 99.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u28	That is a variant of the previous motion, but it is more of a voluntary one, namely the promotion. I really believe in that. The only point is that I consider this motion to have a high degree of superfluousness, because I have already promised this in the AA. I also discussed it with my colleague Mr Slob and took up the letter. There may be something neutral in that there is going to be a discussion about which you will be informed, but the approach of that conversation is of course that the broadcasters and the press group are considering whether they can be persuaded not to bring it to justice as much as possible but to use the Disputes Committee. With that promise...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u29	...dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u30	Well, at least I hope to have made clear the intention of the cabinet, but that has made this motion superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u31	Needless to say, it's not advisable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u32	Dissuade it, too, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-28.u33	Then we've come to the end of this VAO. We've had four. All the motions that have been tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I shall suspend for a few moments and then proceed with the budget of Justice and Security.
