ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the Fourth Own-initiative Act, which the House is discussing this week, namely the proposal by Mr Van Tongeren to amend the Gas Act in relation to the removal of the obligation for new gas connections for homes. I would like to welcome Mrs Van Tongeren. She is supported in the defense of her proposal in box K by Yorian Bordes and Peter van Dijk, both party member at GroenLinks. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the whole legal process, with the first term of the Chamber for dinner break. Mrs Van Tongeren then replied to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u2	I am now the first speaker to speak on behalf of the SP, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. The initiator proposes to connect all new buildings without gas. A good step towards natural gas-free living. Because it's bizarre that homes are still connected to the gas every day, isn't it? Every day! As the earth in Groningen trembles over and over again and people in houses are torn apart, we connect whole neighborhoods to the gas at the same time. So thank you very much to Mrs Van Tongeren for taking the initiative for this law. Like the initiator, we share the view that the government's proposal has been delayed for too long and has proposed too little. This cabinet comes up with a bill that still uses gas connections as its starting point. That is not the step towards such a transition towards gas-free living. But it's turned out to be a weird debate. Because we have just had a debate on the VET Act and the coalition parties have quickly tried to settle almost the same amendment as what Mrs Van Tongeren has been working on. Of course, we do not want to repeat the debate we have just had. We support Mrs Van Tongeren's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u4	I see Mrs Mulder, too, but I'd still like you to finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u5	Actually, that was my line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u6	You were ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u7	For this piece, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u8	Mrs. Mulder, Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mr President, I hear Mrs Beckerman from the SP saying twice that a quick move would have been made here by the coalition parties. Does Mrs Beckerman recognise that there was an earlier amendment tabled by Mr Bosman and also by Mrs Van Veldhoven, who actually had the same intention? I have a problem with Mrs Beckerman qualifying it that way. Can she indicate whether she already knew these amendments and that she also knew how the debate on them went, earlier in this Chamber, and that the entire House of Representatives would really like to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u10	Yes, of course. I think this has been debated many times, but last week, of course, Mrs Van Tongeren's law was the only one that would regulate it this week. We then understood from the media that there would be an amendment, so that is what the facts are before we start this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mrs. Mulder, I see you standing by the interrupting microphone, but I'm going to do a little intervention. The procedural debate was discussed extensively at the committee meeting. I would suggest that everyone here should just do their part and then give Mrs Van Tongeren the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u12	Madam President, perhaps very briefly. This has been dealt with before and I simply object to something being put in my hands that was already there. And I'd like to make that point here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u13	You made that point clear. Please continue, Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u14	There is a real difference, and that amendment only came last week, when the law was already on the agenda for this afternoon. However, I repeat: we support Mrs Van Tongeren's initiative law. There is one thing we are very concerned about as a SP Group, and that is, of course, the affordability of alternatives. Households connected to heat grids currently often pay a much higher bill. How does the initiator see that? No longer connecting new homes to gas, Groningen gas, is much needed. The fact that a gas connection is still the starting point is outdated, but make sure that families who can't put tons on the table have good homes available. Avoid a division between sustainable and future-proof homes for capital-only people on the one hand and draft old homes on the other, which cannot afford that. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u15	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. Mr Wassenberg has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Only 20 minutes ago we were actually talking about the same subject here, with a slightly different approach. We were just discussing the amendment of the Gas and Electricity Act 1998. I have already set out my main points of substance in that debate. I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Van Tongeren most sincerely and complimenting her work. It's a lot of work, something like that, and I really appreciate that. So my sincere compliments for that. I therefore support and support Mrs Van Tongeren's proposal, but I do not want to get rid of it that easily. Without wishing to repeat this morning's debate, I would like to emphasise a few points. With GroenLinks, I think it is very important for the Netherlands to get off the gas quickly and to become the norm without gas, not only for the new construction, but also for the existing construction. We discussed this extensively in the previous debate. It is important to make it easier to launch projects to remove existing construction and new construction in existing neighbourhoods with sustainable alternatives from the gas. That is what Mrs Van Tongeren's proposal is about. I think the latter is very important: sustainable alternatives. So that doesn't mean fossil fuels. Replacing low-caloric gas with a kind of high-caloric gas is of course not a sustainable alternative. Biogas as a product of manure fermentation from livestock farming is also not a sustainable alternative. We need to get off our gas addiction. Switching from one unsustainable fossil fuel to another unsustainable fuel, either fossil or from the livestock industry, is not a solution. This means that those other forms of unsustainable gas, which have a different origin than Groningen for the Party for the Animals, are also undesirable. I would also like to thank Mrs van Tongeren for all the strength, support and thanks she has given us. I would like to leave it at that, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Wassenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate is actually a repetition of moves, but good. To make a long story short, I have already said it in other debates. The left hates fossil fuels and does everything possible to get rid of it as quickly as possible. This proposal for an initiative by Mr Van Tongeren is part of that. It's as simple as that. All the additional arguments are bullshit and purely for the stage. An example. In the explanatory memorandum, the applicant writes the following. "At the moment, a system operator is obliged to connect a house to the gas network for anyone who requests it. This creates uncertainty and uncertainty for citizens, directors, builders and developers." Well, chairman, if you want a gas connection, you get one. It's as simple as that right now. Then the question is whether the initiator can explain what on earth would be unclear and uncertain about it. Currently, citizens are assured of a connection, assured of a heated home. It doesn't get any clearer than that. This initiative proposal by GroenLinks creates uncertainty and uncertainty, because GroenLinks wants to force citizens into other sources of energy, expensive energy. We've talked about that before. The question then is: does this increase the energy bill further? Don't the citizens want this? Well, bad luck, says GroenLinks, not at all. This bill is an example of that. Okay, Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear. It's a crazy bill, so much is clear, but I'd like to go into it extensively and technically. Article 10 (6) of the Gas Act lays down the gas connection obligation. This means that a system operator has a duty to provide all those who request it with a connection to the gas network. That connection obligation wants to delete the member Van Tongeren. The title of the proposal also refers to "deleting the obligation to new gas connections." But, yeah, what's called scraping? Because Article 10 (6) just stays intact. A paragraph shall be added to the Article which exempts the system operator from the connection obligation. Why was this construction chosen? If the initiator is so anxious to get rid of the connection obligation, why does she not choose to simply remove Article 10 from the law? I'd like a response. Is it not the case that this construction has been chosen so that a legal hook has been created to hang the restrictions on the exemption from the connection obligation? That's what I'm talking about. The connection obligation shall not be deleted, but the network operator shall be exempted from this requirement provided that the new gas connections of dwellings or housing are concerned. Is it true that connections in industry, for example, are exempt from this, except for? I'd like a response. Of course, that would be nice, but it's hypocritical. Households are small consumers. I've already said it under the FAT Act. They are responsible for only 17% of total energy consumption. Of these, 82% is heat and 87% is natural gas. If we start calculating, it means that households are responsible for only 12% of total gas consumption. Exactly who small consumers want to catch the initiator! Why, then, is the question. Is it because civilians are easy victims? By how much will household gas consumption decrease as a result of this proposal and within what timeframe? Also not insignificant: how much climate gain is this bill going to yield? I hope, however, that the initiator has already prepared the figures in this respect. This bill is not only ridiculous and absurd, but the citizens are also being deceived and pulled out a leg. Citizens are not asked, have nothing to want. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another aspect of the proposal. To connect homes to gas, the network operator can only be required if a college of mayors and aldermen so requests and there are serious reasons for doing so. What can these serious reasons be? At least not the costs, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. That is cleverly viewed or actually devious, greenslinks, because those costs are of course interesting. Does the initiator imply that the energy bill will increase further, but that this should not be relevant? I'd like a response. How much does it cost to connect a new building house to the gas, so during construction and not afterwards? And how much does it cost to provide such a same kind of house with heat pump, hybrid central heating boiler, solar panels and what more? Perhaps the Minister will be able to respond to this. Can they provide a cost statement of this? Mr. Chairman. As I said, connecting homes to gas can only be required if a college of B and W so requests. But, yes, let's be clear: this is, of course, a wash nose in practice. Because what do citizens have to expect from an average college of B and W? They are not rarely just as left-wing as the initiator, they are fist-deep in the energy transition and will therefore really not stand in the way of the citizens to demand a gas connection for them. So it's a wash nose. So why did the initiator choose to include this in her proposal? Is that to keep up appearances or can it indicate what it expects of this piece of legislation in practice? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The essence is that GroenLinks, as well as the Minister, want us all to have gas. Yeah, so what? Households will then have to cook electrically. This will increase electricity consumption. Have the Minister and the initiator thought about this? How much will this bill increase energy consumption, electricity consumption, and, more importantly, where should this electricity come from? From windmills, solar panels? Can you respond to this? Finally, Mr President. On the VET Act which we have just discussed, the coalition parties have tabled an amendment, and it has just been mentioned that it is the same at the heart of the matter, namely the removal of the gas connection obligation. What does the initiator think of the coalition just running away with its proposal? Isn't she incredibly cheated? Of course, it's not nothing. You've made an initiative proposal, put a lot of time and effort into it, and then you just get passed hard. Mr. Chairman. In any case, this bill, which may be clear, is nonsense and silly, but the PVV Group is all the more looking forward to responding to the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Kops. I now turn to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate my group colleague Liesbeth van Tongeren, who, as an initiator, has made a beautiful law at a really exemplary pace, I think, very quickly. I noticed, also in the previous discussion on the FAT Act, that it had at least a catalysing effect. There's a proverb. That's not completely gender-neutral, so I'm going to change that: success has many parents. I am very pleased that today we are going to take very substantial steps in terms of removing the gas connection obligation for new homes. Complements are really in place for that. I also think that sometimes we want things with each other, but also because we live in a political environment, it often takes a lot longer in practice than we would like. A few years ago my colleague insisted on this and said that it is good to settle this. The market also wanted it very badly. We have stressed the urgency of the energy transition because of its safety, because of its viability. And yet in practice it takes a long time to do something like that. So, all the compliments. I also hope that, on a number of points, the initiator would like to highlight a few more arguments, in particular as regards, for example, the basis of this initiative law. Which organisations, parties, companies actually support this idea? Are there any opponents, except for a group that has just spoken? Moreover, does the initiator think that he is still able to convince those parties? And can it also identify what social costs are also saved by this initiative law? Finally, I hope that the initiator will also make clear the differences between her law and the amendment we discussed in the previous debate. And what are the benefits? I would also like to point out one point myself. We've seen laws die sometimes, even in a First Chamber. Sometimes it can be exciting when it comes to majorities. In broad laws, which deal with a lot, the risk of death is greater. Then it is also good to have a simple, simple law that regulates something very clearly. That can keep us at the same pace in the other Chamber. This seems to me to be one of the reasons why it is very good that we are discussing this initiative law today. I wish the initiator every success in replying in her term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u21	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u22	Mr. Chairman. I'll keep my contribution to Groningen short. Nice work. I'm sorry it's like this. Now let's get to the beer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u23	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the work done by Mrs Van Tongeren. I would also like to thank her for the prompt response to the questions put in writing. There is a lot of work in this and that deserves a compliment for her and for her employees. But today we have also debated extensively the law on the progress of the energy transition, or rather: acceleration of the energy transition. That is why I will now make my contribution relatively brief. We have also discussed in detail the removal of the gas connection obligation. We are Chamberwide, or at least almost Chamberwide, aware that we need to make homes natural gas-free. And I also share the impatience of the initiator. It states in the written round that the swift regulation of the removal of the connection obligation is the reason for the initiative law. But now that there is a broad-based amendment to the VET Act, under which Mrs Van Tongeren's name is also mentioned, we can arrange it quickly. It is therefore good to see that the applicant has also accepted this amendment. Mr. Chairman. As usual, the Council of State has also responded to this initiative law. It states that the removal of the connection obligation to natural gas must be embedded in the broad heat transition required. Only the removal of the connection obligation does not yet create a more sustainable built environment. Regional solutions are needed. They'll look different in the Westland than in the Achterhoek. Municipalities, provinces, grid operators and energy suppliers need to work regionally with the best sustainable solution. And that broader approach is reflected in the coalition parties' amendment to the bill that we discussed today and which is now also more widely signed. This amendment also places municipalities in a legal position. Can the initiator respond to this? Isn't it better to regulate it in the context of the FAT Act and the Heat Act? Mr. Chairman. The applicant has only a limited role in mind for municipalities, i.e. if there are serious reasons for connecting houses to the gas anyway. The complainant states that there are no or few situations in which it is unreasonable to delete the connection obligation and that only theoretical examples are known. My question to the Minister is whether this part of the initiative law is also workable. So much for my brief contribution. I look forward to the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u25	Thank you; short and powerful. Mrs Agnes Mulder, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u26	Mr. Chairman. Some mixed feelings, because I know what it's like to sit there and how much work you have on that. At the same time, there was also a lot to do. But I think it is best that I agree with what Mr Moorlag has said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u27	Thank you, Mrs Agnes Mulder. Then I will go to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to begin by congratulating Mrs Van Tongeren and her advisers, Mr Van Dijk and Mr Bordes, on being here today to defend their own initiative law. I did it myself last week, and that is a very special moment. Mr. Chairman. D66 shares with the initiator and the GroenLinks group the ambition to get the Netherlands off the gas as soon as possible. I have also talked to Mrs Van Tongeren about this before. We have all seen today in the previous debate that in recent years D66, GroenLinks and even the VVD have already come up with previous motions and amendments to settle this. Today we actually have two debates where we can actually do it, namely the VET Act and the Van Tongeren Initiative Act. I think the profit of the past year is that we are now at a point where we are almost Chamberwide choosing to get Groningen gas out of our homes as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. I have also watched with Mrs Van Tongeren over the past few weeks: if we all share that ambition, how can we do it in the best way possible? As far as I am concerned, you will not be surprised that this is through the amendment that has just been tabled by eight or nine parties to the VET Act. There are a number of differences with the initiative law that is now before us. Perhaps the initiator can briefly reflect on this in her answer. This concerns first of all the role a municipality plays in choosing whether or not to make a gas connection. With the amendment we have just made, we have really chosen to lay down the trust and mandate with a college of mayors and aldermen. From an integral view of the transition in a neighbourhood and with a heat plan, they can very well make the assessment when you allow or do not allow another gas connection, where we have explicitly said with each other: it is no, unless. So only for very serious reasons can a college of mayors and aldermen still choose to do so. But we have also clearly stated in the amendment when a college can or cannot choose to do so. Mrs Van Tongeren deviates from that because, for these serious reasons, she does not in any case name the costs. This is in line with GroenLinks' ambition to put the approach to climate change in one place, but that is not feasible for us either, because it will be simply too complicated for some municipalities to make that assessment now. Finally, Mr President. I have just heard Mr Van der Lee explain in his speech why we also need this initiative law in addition to the amended VET Act. He said, "Maybe the FAT Act will end in the First Chamber." Of course, with STROOM we have a somewhat less good experience with the other side of this Binnenhof. But then my counter-question to the GroenLinks Group would actually be, because Mr Van der Lee just suggested it, but I can also ask the initiator: wouldn't it be wise to wait for the amended FAT Act to be dealt with in the First Chamber? I am confident that with this minister and this First Chamber, we will easily get through the FAT Act. We can then keep Mrs Van Tongeren's initiative law behind us as a sort of plan B, possibly after the first term of this Chamber and Mrs Van Tongeren's reply, and look at the treatment of the FAT Act in the coming months. Should these really beaches, then we can look together.There is now such a large, Chamber-wide majority.How can we possibly amend the Van Tongeren Act and then we will give Mrs Van Tongeren our full support in order to get them through the First Chamber as plan B. But D66 is currently opting for the amended FAT Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u29	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. Finally, I will go to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The members of the VVD Group have taken note with interest of the proposal of the Van Tongeren member's law. I would like to thank her very much here for all the effort and for all the work. I have a number of questions; thank you for answering them. Together with the initiator, the VVD Group supports the need to make the built environment more sustainable. In the debate that has just taken place on the progress of the energy transition, all the parties present spoke in detail about its implementation. I will not repeat what I have just said. According to the coalition, and in the meantime also according to a broad majority in the Chamber, the change in the obligation to connect to the gas grid can be accelerated. That is why, during the previous debate, we all... Excuse me, we have almost all tabled an amendment replacing the right to gas with a right to heat. In this initiative law we are talking about something similar, but the law of the initiator leaves less or actually no room for exceptions. Moreover, this law does not allow social costs to be taken into account. In addition, this law confines itself to the residential function, so that the network operator remains obliged to connect one or a few small businesses in a district. I would therefore like to ask the initiator to what extent this initiative law has an impact on households. What costs will these groups incur by means of this initiative law? Why did the initiator choose to focus the proposal solely on the housing function, which may require the construction or extension of the gas transport network? I do not believe that this is in line with our shared ambitions for the transition to natural gas-free and is not cost-effective. Many thanks for the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u31	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for one hour, so until 1:00. Am I gonna say 1:00? You would have wanted that, wouldn't you? But we're not gonna do that. I mean until 7:00. At 7:00 p.m. Mrs. Van Tongeren will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u32	I'm reopening the meeting. The next item is the proposal for a law of Mr Van Tongeren, an initiative law amending the Gas Act in connection with the removal of the obligation to establish new gas connections for homes. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren, the initiator of this law, to answer the first-term questions she has been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a great honour to stand here and defend an initiative law. Because not all democratically elected parliaments have the right for a Member of Parliament to table a law. At least this week others have preceded me, including Mr Jetten, who have also exercised that right. It is a super important right within democracy. I'm very honored to be able to do that. Today's topic is more important than ever. All I have to do is say "Paris" and "Groningen" and the people in this Chamber will know what I mean by that. Every tub of Groningen gas we gain less and use less in the Netherlands is essential. With several colleagues here, such as Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Agnes Mulder, GroenLinks has been fighting for lower gas extraction and higher safety for years, and new colleagues and the new minister have also joined and have made it clear that the misery for the Groningers must be put to an end and that less use of natural gas is essential. In today's debates it has already been pointed out that I have been working on this subject for some time, as have other colleagues. In 2015 I received a motion for the first time to make a SMBA a gas-free new building district. Unfortunately, that motion was not carried out. Subsequently, with the PvdA, I received a majority vote in favour of a motion from 2016, which asked the government to remove the gas connection obligation for new construction areas from the relevant legislation and regulations as soon as possible. It wasn't carried out at first either. Tonight, that motion was carried out by the coalition parties' amendment. Because it all took a long time and we all felt the need, I started a law myself. I also thought: super small, simple, one thing to cover and not try to settle everything, so that there is a great chance that there is a majority for it and that the law can quickly pass through the First and Second Chambers, become quick law and then give clarity to buyers of new buildings and to the whole construction sector. The reason why I did so was because some of us have experienced that ourselves, was the great shock when both the Law STROOM and the Mining Act, after initial joy in the House of Representatives, at least with me, did not end up passing through the First Chamber. That's about the motivation to do this. In the answer to the questions and in the explanatory statement it appears that the main purpose of this law is to establish a clear and new standard for new construction, no more and no less. Make sure there's no choice between "well or not for this neighborhood?" and a clear new standard for the builders of new homes. One of the reasons for this is that you don't want to charge a buyer of a new building house but also a tenant twice with costs. If a new building has to get rid of the gas in the course of time, that is in the coalition agreement, in the Energy Agenda and I think in almost everyone's input made very clear today, then there has to be a renovation at that house, then the street must open, then the network manager must get going, then the buyer or the tenant of the new building house must buy a heat pump or an induction cooker and perhaps another pot set, and so you have two costs. It is much clearer and cheaper to do so at once. That is also what this brief law of a half-A4's is all about. I would now like to end the spokesmen one by one, as Minister Kamp always did. I'll start with Mrs. Beckerman. Many thanks for the support for the idea behind this law. I think we both want us to not build usury houses, but that natural gas-free new construction is the norm. She asks: what about poor tenants, with less-income tenants? This has been investigated, for example by the DWA research agency. That research, which can be found on Stedin's website, shows that new construction without natural gas compared to natural gas houses is cheaper for tenants and also for buyers if you look over a longer term. This is seen for the owners on the total cost of ownership and for the tenant on the rental fee. They provide more background to show why that is exactly the case. But I fully agree with Mrs Beckerman that it should not be the case in the Netherlands that people who have a little more to spend live in a spacious, sustainable, beautiful building and that tenants are shipped off with something drafty and cold where they still have to devoid of gas, which increases the monthly costs for the tenant. Then Mr Wassenberg. I would also like to thank him for his compliments and for his support for this initiative. He agrees with the principle that we need to get rid of gas and makes the right point that only sustainable alternatives to gas are desirable. This law does not regulate that, but I naturally agree with this principle. He also pointed out that there are different types of gas, we want gas-free new construction, so no gas at all, and that there are also objections to other types of gas. High-caloric gas or biogas is also not a solution for the entire housing sector in the Netherlands. I fully agree with that, but this law only regulates new construction and not the entire housing sector in the Netherlands. Then Mr. Kops. The beauty of democracy is that you can disagree and that you can weigh facts differently. I believe that the differences on the subject of climate change between my group and his group are unbridgeable. We can debate it for five minutes or two weeks, but we won't find each other on that. But with me, the majority of the House of Representatives considers climate change to be a particularly important topic for attention. The voters agree, because they have chosen a coalition that clearly has climate change in the coalition agreement. I suggest that we simply accept that we disagree, but I hope that Mr Kops will support this law, but in the interest of the Groningen people. Together with the PVV I have also built up in the past to address all kinds of different aspects of the problem in Groningen. Stopping using Groningen's natural gas is perhaps something that Mr Kops also appeals to. Every little bit of Groningen natural gas you use less helps. There were all questions about: how much does that help and how does that help? Well, I guess in a very simple parable. If I have to learn a foreign language, I certainly do not speak that language with the first ten words. Then you can ask: how much of that language can you already control and can you already make a purchase in that foreign language? No, I can't, but if I don't learn those first ten words, I'm never gonna learn that language either. This is also the case with stepping off the Groningen natural gas: all the beginnings are small and then they get bigger and bigger. I hope, therefore, that Mr Kops may be able to convince his group that this is very much in the interest of the Groningen people. That is why this initiative law could perhaps be supported by the PVV. Then my colleague Tom van der Lee. There was a first question about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u34	Excuse me. You have an interruption which may even have provoked you a little bit from Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u35	It's not that bad in itself. I have asked many other questions, especially technical questions about the bill. Are they still being discussed, or was this my contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u36	I have heard you ask a lot of technical questions about all kinds of percentages and cost aspects, which relate mainly to climate change. I do not think I am going to convince you that it is useful to get rid of the gas because of climate change. I have dealt with the cost aspect with Mrs Beckerman. The only argument I think you might be able to convince is that it helps Groningen to use less natural gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u37	I think this is way too easy. Mrs Van Tongeren herself has just said that we can differ. Well, touché, we can. But I have just asked a lot of questions, for example why Mrs Van Tongeren chooses to add an additional paragraph to Rule 10 and what this will have to do in practice. I just really did my best on this bill from Mrs. Van Tongeren. Can she not answer these questions seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u38	In replying to the questions in writing, I dealt with all the points raised by Mr Kops, apart from the question of what I think there is an amendment and a law. I have said enough about this. Success is based on many mothers and fathers. How we get there, I don't think it's very important, but that we get there and that we get there seriously, yes. Fortunately, at the 11th hour, I received Mr Jetten's invitation to be allowed under the amendment. I had previously proposed to do it crosswise, i.e. under the amendment and "want you all together." Then we'd be sitting here with five of us doing this law to indicate that we're united. That second part hasn't quite worked out yet, but maybe it will come on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u39	I'm sorry, but I'm just gonna keep trying. Has Mrs Van Tongeren chosen to add an additional paragraph to the article so that it only concerns new connections for homes and does not affect industry? Is that right? The reason could of course be because this is not realistic at all. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u40	As Mr Kops says, this is indeed a very limited law, which does not abolish the entire natural gas connection obligation, but only for a very limited group. Mr Kops has been served at his beck and call. Perhaps he has read Mr Moorlag's amendment. I actually wanted to deal with that when I arrived at Mr Moorlag. That's about the gas connection obligation of small business real estate. In a new building district you may have small business real estate from time to time. This is indeed not about an industrial site, the city centre of Groningen and Limburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u41	For the sake of completeness, is Mrs Van Tongeren going to say anything about the costs? Can she give some figures showing how much it costs to connect a new house to gas or to, for example, a heat pump, with everything? Can she include some numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u42	I told Mrs Beckerman in the answer that there are several calculations to be made. I'm not a research firm myself. A good and easily accessible research is from DWA and can be found on the website of Stedin. DWA maps out that if you look at the total cost of ownership, it is cheaper for both a tenant and a buyer to be in a natural gas-free home. The result of the sums depends very much on the size of the house. Is it a single-family house or an apartment? Where is it built? How many square feet is it? What is the degree of isolation? I'm not gonna bore this Chamber this evening with a whole set of substantive sums of 25 different types of housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u43	Mr. Kops, rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u44	I am surprised that Mrs Van Tongeren calls that 'annoying'. It is, of course, her own initiative proposal! I think she takes that very seriously. She's not standing here for nothing. I would almost like to ask: if she does not want to respond seriously to these questions, what the hell is she doing here? Anyway, thank God I went out on a little research myself. I have some bids from several installers. I just asked how much it costs to connect a new house to the gas and what it costs to provide a house with a heat source including buffer tank, boiler barrel, pipes, a very complete system. In the second case, it is a surcharge of about €17,000. I understand that Mrs Van Tongeren would rather not talk about those numbers, because it is of course a huge amount of money: €17,000 more. You have a lot of energy for that. Again, the question is why Mrs Van Tongeren is so shady about that. Why doesn't she just want to answer those questions seriously? Then what's she doing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u45	There is a difference between the foundation costs when you build a house, and Mr Kops mentions a number of elements of it, and what it costs to use it. That's what you get for almost all utensils. You can buy a small fridge with an F-label very cheap. That's gonna cost you very little. Then you pay a lot of money to your electricity bill every month. That's how it works with houses. To set up a sustainable home, the foundation costs are initially higher, that's right, and that's in the range you mentioned. This is also much more extensive, with maps, drawings and examples, to be found on different websites. But, because the use of such a house is much cheaper, the owner or the housing corporation that rents it is ultimately cheaper out. That's the point I'm making. You not only build a house for the moment of construction, but you build a house for comfortable use by the residents and then in all cases natural gas-free homes are more comfortable and cheaper to use than new buildings on natural gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u46	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u47	I had almost arrived at my colleague Van der Lee, who also mentioned how quickly we managed to achieve this. Then I should probably also compliment the Council of State, because it also came very quickly with its opinion. The reason I have tabled motions and come up with an initiative law is to get speed in this file and to act as a catalyst. Then there was a question about acceptance. The various organisations that support this proposal have already been mentioned in the written answer to the questions in the case of VNG, IPO, construction, most project developers, network operators and also house buyers. You can also look at the VVD principle. These houses are offered on the market and they sell very quickly. They sell faster than new buildings with natural gas, because people know that they will have to make costs again later. I have rarely been able to defend anything, including in the motion, for which the basis was wider than here. Who's gonna resist? There are a number of installers, which I've also spoken to, who still find it difficult. They say that their people are used to working the old way and that they find that difficult. There are some doubts, and that is not surprising, with Shell, Exxon and the Gasunie, the people who are currently producing and distributing gas. The Netherlands has invested 7 billion in the gas roundabout. It feels a little painful to say that we have to say goodbye to that gas. The support is practically complete, even in building the Netherlands. Bernard Wientjes of the Building Agenda was interviewed this morning on the radio. If this is possible, he was asked. "Yes, all new builds can be gasless." Then I think: if it is worn from Liesbeth van Tongeren to Bernard Wientjes, you have quite a broad public support. Then there was the question of Van der Lee which social costs you avoid. You avoid building a gas infrastructure. It is also safer than houses with natural gas, because we still have some hundred serious incidents in the Netherlands every year, such as carbon monoxide poisoning and explosions. They are also avoided. Houses with a natural gas connection are more or less usury homes. I told you before. 'Cause you're buying something that's gonna cost you later. Climate and Groningen have been mentioned before. Those are actually the main motto of my motivation to get to work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u48	You have another interruption from Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u49	Mrs Van Tongeren is talking about support. What about the public's support? I ask that question, because people like Mrs Van Tongeren want the whole of the Netherlands off the gas. Citizens are not asked anything; that must be done! So at some point, citizens just don't have a choice at all. To citizens who want a gas house, Mrs Van Tongeren says: no, no, no, none of that is allowed. So civilians are simply forced. If Mrs Van Tongeren is talking about support, isn't that just a fake support?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u50	I will quote two of the many studies. Ballast Nedam has conducted an investigation among potential buyers: how do you look at it, do you want a property with or without natural gas? In this sample 70% of potential buyers opted for natural gas free. There is also an investigation, for example of Early Birds, that goes a bit wider. This is about natural gas in general. They found that a year ago 47% of the Dutch population wanted to get rid of natural gas completely and that this has now risen to 58%. So that's not just for new buildings, but in general. This also shows that there is enormous support among citizens for this. Mr Van der Lee also asked about the advantages over the amendment. I'll take a look at the minister, but it's, I think, a support in the back or a stick behind the door. Once the House of Representatives has voted on the amendment and on the law, we do not really have any control over the process, because then our role has been played out. I am not saying that the Minister intends to do so, but a minister will have the opportunity to wait another month and a minister will have the opportunity not to submit the law at all. And the law could fall in the First Chamber. So to keep a little pressure on it so that it is going to happen quickly, I have heard the Minister very well this evening; he just wants to do so. I want to keep this little law on this small part up to make sure that it is indeed going to happen. And that's something we kind of want Chamberwide. Isn't it necessary? Is it useless? I'm not going to subject the First Chamber to useless procedures. At any time, a law can be revoked or withdrawn from the agenda. Then Mr Moorlag of the PvdA. I'm going to offer him an Olle Grieve soon. Thanks for the support. I also think that the amendment tabled by the PvdA is very much in line with the intention of the law and with what has been discussed this afternoon. How do I put it, Mr. Chairman? I would like to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u51	You could say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u52	Yes. I do not know whether I should say 'judge chamber' or'support the amendment'. I was just looking for: what is the correct text again? My colleague Dik-Faber wants a gear just like I do. We have been fighting side by side for this for years, and we have seen where you can speed it up. Sometimes it was with something big, sometimes with a little push. She's quoting the Council of State. The Council of State says that such a measure should preferably be embedded in a broader policy. I'll share that entirely with her. That is why it is also nice that this Minister's law was discussed this afternoon. This law is indeed only a small part of a much greater task, of a rather gigantic task that we all have. She also asked for regional solutions. Unfortunately, I also have to give the same answer. This law does not deal with all kinds of other matters that should be dealt with differently by region. He only arranges a very clear little thing, and that is that new construction, wherever in the Netherlands, does not touch the gas grid. Then the role of the municipalities was referred to. We have accepted several parliamentary motions and it is also the intention of this cabinet, I have heard from the Minister, from the government agreement and from the Energy Agenda, to give the municipalities a stronger direction in this process. That is why, contrary to Mr Van Veldhoven's original amendment, I chose to give that direction to the municipality. This also applies to the choice of connecting a house to the gas in an exceptional case, if it would really be very awkward not to do so. That's possible, but that's pretty strict. There is not much room for all kinds of exceptions, which could then possibly be extended. Mrs Dik-Faber's question I have her name in my notes; I hope that's correct was: can it be? If Bernard Wientjes says that with the Construction Agenda all new buildings can be built without gas, I trust him on his blue eyes. Then I'll come to Mrs. Agnes Mulder. With this law in my hand, I look back at all the work visits that we have made to Groningen and at all the preliminary discussions about this. I do not know how many times we have debated Groningen gas here in the Chamber. With her I share the desire to reduce gas consumption as quickly as possible and to solve the great drama in Groningen. As far as history and the Acts are concerned, I would point out that Mr Bosman had tabled an amendment at the time. This law builds on that and goes one step further. Mrs Van Veldhoven's amendment said that the ACM should make a review framework for gas-free new construction or new construction on the gas. And this law says: "Please direct this to the municipality." So the direction and the objective are the same, but there are just a few nuance choices in it. The amendment tabled on Tuesday takes out these two elements. I'm incredibly happy about that. When Mr Jetten asked me that, I also said that I fully agree with this and I would very much like to put my name on it. Then I come to Mr Jetten. Thanks for the congratulations. It's nice that we both have this experience in one week. Of course, we also share the ambition to get the Netherlands off the gas. It is a good tradition to cooperate widely on this subject. I am pleased that we are continuing this cooperation during this period of government. GroenLinks always wants to be a constructive partner and see where we can find each other. Sometimes I might call out that I want the bar a little higher, but that is, I think, the role of GroenLinks. There's almost room-wide agreement on the goal. You may have some doubts about the process or about the cure. I've just tried to highlight the differences. They are certainly not big anymore and they have become even smaller. I submitted a letter of amendment this morning, because I also have no objection to a General Measure of Management with detailed rules for the municipality in the decision-making process. We can then, if necessary, look at the rules that will then be laid down in the Minister's proposal by means of a back-up procedure. I'm announcing that I'll try to get it as strict as I can. I have been asked whether I would like to keep this initiative proposal. If that is useful at some point, for example because the treatment of the law is already going on in the First Chamber, I will certainly consider it. I'll try at any time to see if it helps, if it's another push in the back, if it's a stick behind the door or if it's not necessary. Of course, the Minister does not know how things are going in the Upper Chamber. Sometimes it takes a novelle. We hope very much that it will not be the same as with the other two energy laws, which were still unexpectedly delayed. That's the last thing we need right now. We'll save the best for last. That's Mrs Yeşilgöz. She said very kind words in my direction for the effort, for the initiative. And indeed, even in one of those half A4's there is a lot of work to do. We've been in contact with many companies, with lawyers. I would also like to express my thanks to the Bureau of Legislation, which has been very patiently supporting, thinking and watching each time. I would also like to thank the officials of the Ministry who gave them advice and made all kinds of technical adjustments that I did not see were really necessary. So it's teamwork, too. So thank you for that. Ms Yeşilgöz asked about the costs of households. I have explained this in the interrupting debate with Mr Kops and in the light of questions put by Mrs Beckerman. Whether they are rental houses or merchant houses, with the total cost of ownership those costs for households are low. Is it just focused on a living position? That's what I started because I thought, "Let me keep it small and simple." I learn the first ten words of Portuguese, and then, of course, the whole language of climate change, of the energy transition, has to be developed step by step. People need to get more comfortable in that. But these were my first ten words. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of my first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u53	Mrs Van Tongeren, thank you very much for defending your proposal and answering the questions. Then I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy to address the Chamber as an advisor from the government in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u54	Mr. Chairman. Three questions have been asked to me. I'll answer that. Mr Kops asks if I can provide a cost statement of this law. That is a question he asked in the previous debate about an amendment that was very similar. I have said that this cannot be done, but that we are always striving for the most efficient application. A more interesting question was: what happens to energy consumption? Mr Kops is actually asking: how much will energy consumption increase? The amount of heat produced here is of course the same, because the houses remain the same. This is not an isolation measure, but it may well be that primary energy consumption is falling. This could be achieved through, for example, the use of heat pumps, by geothermal energy, by residual heat and by using renewable electricity in the propulsion of all these beautiful devices. So that could be good, but that is not to say now, because the heat plans are not yet finished. We haven't started that on a large scale yet, but we'll see about that soon. Ultimately, of course, it will lead to an end to the use of fossil fuels. Mrs Dik-Faber has also asked me what the differences are. I'm not gonna do my neighbor's answers all over again. The differences are now small. Originally, the difference was the extent to which a college could decide to connect it to the gas, even temporarily. In the meantime, a letter of amendment has extended these possibilities, which still remains to be seen as non-financial motives. But then it becomes a bit of a debate about the question: what is non-financial? Connecting to the gas now because a heat grid will be coming along in five years, is that financial or not? I just leave it to the taste of the listener how big those differences are. I myself still read in it a strict limitation to housing, and then it does not apply to small business consumers. But I think my neighbor has even denied that. I'll leave it to her to point out in the law where that is. Yes, that's the Moorlag amendment. There you go! But it says again that the large consumers are fully involved, if I read it just as quickly. This is suitable for all kinds of study. There is a similar situation with regard to existing houses. That takes Mrs Van Tongeren's standard, although the letter of amendment may also allow for changes to be made. I don't think the differences are life-size. Well, you're gonna have to deal with that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u55	Thank you. I propose that we proceed to the second term of office, at least if we need it. I'll check with the members to see if that's the case. Some members shake their heads and some members say yes. I'm gonna go get the list. Mrs Beckerman has waived her second-term speaking time. I call Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party. Mr Wassenberg, you have two minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u56	That's more than enough, Mr. Chairman. In my second term, I would like to comment briefly on Mr Moorlag's brief contribution. He gave a Groningen reaction to Mrs Van Tongeren's work and briefly but forcefully combined it with the words "beautiful work." He was gone right after that. I couldn't make it to the Interrupt Microphone anymore, so I'd like to give a second-term response. I am pleased that as a born and raised Limburger I can give Mr Moorlag a lesson in Gronings. I don't think a Groninger could be more positive than saying it could be less. In the suspension I checked with some Groningen informants. Mrs Beckerman was one of them. I can fully agree with those words. It could have been a lot less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u57	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I shall then give the floor in second term to Mr Kops of the PVV. You too have two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a terrible bill, but I think I'd already made that clear. At the end of my first-term speech, I asked the initiator: what do you think of the fact that you were actually passed by the coalition by submitting an amendment to the FAT Act? 'Cause it's not fun when you're passed by, is it? That's annoying. Then I asked all kinds of questions. And then, frankly, I find it really embarrassing that, in response to that, the initiator, even in defence of her own initiative proposal, says: yes, we disagree and we do not get out of it. It seemed like she didn't want to defend her own bill at all! I really think that it does not do justice to the contributions of Members of Parliament. On second thought, I do understand that she has passed through the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u59	Thank you, Mr. Kops. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This gives me the opportunity to say a great deal of thanks to both spokesmen we have just heard. The initiator, Mrs Van Tongeren, thanks to the efforts of her team, Yorian Bordes, Peter van Dijk, the people of Bureau Legislation but also external consultants, has done a very good job in a very short time. I think we can only appreciate that very much. I would also like to hear a response to the last words the Minister said about the small and the large-scale user. Perhaps it is good to have that point very clearly and clearly. I understand that the initiator of Mr Moorlag's amendment to item No. 9 to take over. On this point, I believe there is legal clarity, but that clarity is not quite clear in the debate. I hope that the initiator will clarify this. I look forward to the answer and to the votes next week. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Van der Lee. Mr Moorlag and Mrs Dik-Faber do not need a second term. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder of the CDA Group. You too have two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u62	Mr President, thank you. I thought Mrs Van Tongeren had a very good answer. We do not agree today, as Mrs Van Tongeren does not agree with the PVV Group. But she was only standing there for a moment: in an initial period after one hour immediately forward to an initiative legislative proposal. I appreciate that, and I would like to say that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u63	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. Then I will go to Mr Jetten of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u64	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of D66 too, I would like to thank the initiator for his reply here today, but also for the prompt written response we received earlier after a number of questions had been asked by the Chamber. I have already said in the first term that I am very pleased that we in the Chamber today have shown that we are all convinced from the left to the right that we must get the gas from Groningen out of our homes as quickly as possible. The removal of the gas connection obligation will contribute to this. I am pleased that we have been able to table an amendment to the FAT Act with so many groups. Even after Mrs van Tongeren has just replied, I am convinced that the amendment regulates this in a better way. I still hope that Mrs Van Tongeren will be able to enforce this law as a stick behind the door, so that we have an alternative, should the Minister really be on the beach in the Senate with the Progress Act energy transition. But right now, my group is convinced that the amended FAT Act is the best and most viable way to get our homes off the gas as quickly as possible. Thanks again to the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u65	Thank you, Mr Jetten. Ms Yeşilgöz-Zegerius waived her speaking time. My proposal is that we proceed immediately to the second deadline for answering the last questions and comments. I call Mrs Van Tongeren, the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u66	Mr. Chairman. The extraction of Groningen's gas needs to be reduced, so I'm totally happy. Mr Kops has put himself out of business by terms such as a "crazy law." Then, as far as I am concerned, it makes no sense to go into all kinds of details of certain financing. If he appreciates that very much, I invite him to visit the GroenLinks Group for an afternoon. Then we're just gonna take a quiet look at that together. I may be able to invite some people from the construction and gas industry to this, but I suspect that this will not affect either Mr Kops's vote or opinion. I thank Mr Van der Lee. He asked what exactly is in that Moorlag amendment. What I have just received from my support is so much fun to get it, it is that it regulates exactly the same thing as the coalition amendment, namely that with the exception of certain industrial sectors where the operation without gas connection is impossible at the moment, we cannot technically do it yet; we do not yet have enough hydrogen in the case of new construction the connection obligation would expire. That is Mr Moorlag's amendment, which I welcome with enthusiasm. I think you need a magnifying glass to find out the differences. My proposal to the Chamber would be that we adopt both the amendment to the Minister's law and that to the initiative law. If we do not, it is very difficult to explain that we want two things which are the same, but one of which is a smaller one and the other of a larger one, only want what is in the larger part, but do not want it if it is in the smaller part. But that is, of course, at the discretion of the individual groups. I thank Mrs Mulder for her words. We've been working together a long time. Together we can bridge differences in content and always keep personal cooperation well. I would very much like to continue doing so in this period of government. I say to Mr Jetten: yes, if it is strategically useful at some point not to treat the law further or not to submit it in the First Chamber, I will certainly not do so. After all, our common goal is no longer to build new gas as soon as possible. I want to support and encourage that and have a stick behind the door, but I do not want to frustrate it in any way. Then I arrived at the end of my second term, with thanks to all those who have worked hard for this, including our minister as my advisor, at least as an advisor to the Chamber, I believe. I would also like to thank all Members of Parliament who have lasted from 11 a.m. this morning until 8 a.m. on the subject of gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u67	Thank you, Mrs Van Tongeren, for your contribution and your efforts to this law. I would like to look briefly at the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy in his role as an advisor. He doesn't need a second term. Then I would suggest that we come to an end to the deliberations on this initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u68	The votes on the Moorlag amendment and the initiative law are scheduled for next Tuesday. I suspend the sitting, and then the Chamber continues the 30-member debate on a debt industry and the Manifest Debt-free!
