ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u1	We will continue with the first term on the side of the Chamber in the General European Considerations. I give the floor to Mr Knapen. Excuse me, the ministers are not here. We are waiting for both ministers to arrive. I shall suspend the meeting pending the two ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u2	The two directors are now present. I give the floor to Mr Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u3	Madam President. For over a year now we have witnessed an as bizarre as banal reality soap in the White House. Our main ally of the last half century is led by someone with an unordered mind, an unstable personality and an astonishing ignorance of subjects that matter. "Trade wars are great and you win them easily," tweeted the head of state recently. We can dismiss Donald Trump's presidency as an aberration in the confidence that there is sufficient solid establishment in America to ensure continuity and resilient institutions. But for a reassuring analysis that there is only a temporary misunderstanding here, I should like to warn you. A warning based on a few observations. There is strong and constant support among the population in the United States for the America First agenda. In recent decades, the loss of community spirit in America has translated into crippling political polarization. There is therefore a time bomb under the global sense of responsibility of the country, because without a community there is no sense of common public good. Finally, China's unstoppable-looking rise makes many Americans fundamentally insecure. So far Trump is not a coincidence, but rather a symptom and a consequence of a profound change in America. Democracy and the rule of law are generally against the wind in the world. We see it with China's rise and growing assertiveness. We see it with populist, authoritarian regimes like Russia and Turkey and closer to home in Poland and Hungary. But the fact that our main ally over the last half century has shown a clear preference for authoritarian nationalism through the White House is more than just getting used to, especially for us here in Western Europe. The unique feature of the Western community since 1945 has always been that it tried to put an end to a world in which states like wolves were for each other. The whole Bretton Woods system, the United Nations, the World Trade Organisation, the European communities: all this was meant to promote a multilateral world. Of course, states themselves were supposed to flourish in such a system, but the ambition was also to live together, not only on the basis of power but also, and preferably as much as possible, on the basis of rules. This idea was the basis of the many international conventions concluded over the last few decades on trade, on traffic, on development, on emancipation, on the environment, and also on forms of association. Of course, it was a western construction and there was always a struggle with non-western countries, but the idea was also to gradually make the rest of the world co-responsible for such a multilateral world of institutions and rules and thus a shared awareness of our global public goods. The nucleus, the nucleus in this construction, was unique. America and our part of Europe were an alliance of democracies, who shared interests and values. There was also self-interest, certainly, but above all enlightened self-interest. Even our country, with its long tradition of isolation and neutrality in the world, could feel at home in such a system. You don't hear me saying this is all over. Those who make apodicist statements in this regard overestimate themselves and underestimate history. But it could be. In any case, "America First" is more than a wild scream from the mouth of a reality showmaster. Things are shifting and it is hard for us to imagine the precise consequences. Madam President, it is against this background of extra-European developments and threats at this time that our group wishes to focus primarily on the issue of Europe and the European Union. This European Union is not at all equipped for an adequate role in this new world. It is a partnership based on rules, on soft power, on multilateralism. Based also on free movement of persons and capital, of goods and services, of European law. And all this with shared interests and values of members as a starting point. The Union's administrative machinery is a governance that works with rules. It has no people, it has no state, it has no members. That would be a fiction, too. Brussels alone lacks the geopolitical reflexes that are self-evident in some national capitals. However, these reflexes are required at this time in Europe, because the rule-based communities are under the pressure of power political forces. For example, at the European eastern border, we are faced with a country which wishes to restore the primacy of the great powers, with the regional supremacy that goes with it. For us here, the concert of states from the Vienna Congress may be amusing history literature, for President Putin it is an up-to-date concept of international relations. The world as an arena, in which states compete for the benefits, for profit, for victory. At our southern borders, we are faced with fragile states, with mafia states, with religious extremism and with a demographic explosion. The African countries that are doing reasonably well are, above all, the countries where China has now become the most important external force. We from Europe operate mainly in the most difficult states and we do so with a fragmented palette of development projects, occasionally a bag of money and some military intervention. We call it euphemistic "3D," standing for diplomacy, development and defence. But it's what it is: fragmented, slow, ad hoc and a little coincidental. I am not saying that as a reproach to anyone, but as a statement simply based on the fact that the Union is not a state and therefore has no political reflexes of power. What to do? In our view, Europe must stand on two feet. One leg is the trusted, shared values that must be monitored and promoted internally and externally. It is a permanent commitment to multilateralism and to international rules and agreements. That is the Union's classic strength. The second leg is the defence and promotion of one's own values and interests in this new world. In this way, that is new, uncomfortable and full of uncertainties, but necessary. The political reality of power calls for this kind of protection for our citizens. Chancellor Merkel put it this way: "The times in which we could rely entirely on others are now to some extent over. That's why we need to take more care of our own safety." Whether it is realistic to wait for the entire Union of 27 Member States to receive this message, we can ask ourselves. Waiting until number 27 is also willing to act, is probably asking for paralysis. The driving forces are here, to begin with, France and Germany and we, as far as I know, are not. I would also like to hear our Minister's views on this. Military force is becoming an urgent matter. We are working, the Minister will say, and he will probably drop the bureaucratic abbreviation 'PESCO', but the reality is, of course, much harrowing. Western Europe recently received hundreds of thousands of refugees from Syria, but when it comes to influence in Syria and the region there, figures like Putin and Erdogan are pulling strings. We were and his direct object, that's all. Our country has sought cooperation with neighbouring countries from the bottom up. As far as we are concerned, this can be speeded up. We could welcome and encourage Franco-German initiatives to speed up the pace with a group of willing countries. What does the Minister think of the European intervention initiative, which was launched last year by President Macron? Similar is the need to implement its own Africa policy, with all its components, from investment to, in some situations, military presence, coordinated in a way that also makes it clear to our citizens that we represent our European interest there. This includes strong border control and control of immigration flows. And yes, that affects the sovereignty of a country and forces a strong coalition of like-minded EU Member States. That's not good enough, and it's harmful. Consider: the definition of "safe country" is different in each Member State. The rules for obtaining refugee status are very different even between the European Member States we trust. Procedures and policies for forced return are different in each country. How can so much quasi-sovereignty of Member States make use of the power of joint action? Asking the question is probably answering the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u4	I am very interested in Mr Knapen's exhilarating speech. I share his concerns about what is still our main ally, namely the US. One wonders what that means for that alliance, as Mr Knapen also points out. I also share his analysis that this is not a temporary person-related aberration. It's not just Trump; America first goes deeper than that. That has great implications for our multilateral world order when its values are so brutally put aside. But now it is a question of how Europe should respond to that. I think Mr Knapen is right to say, also for historical reasons, that this power-political reflex is not there, at least not from Brussels. But he's talking about two legs. My question is about the second leg. Do I quite understand what Mr Knapen has to say about the fact that we need to move in a direction where the power politics of Trump, Putin, Xi Jinping and Erdogan are being answered by a power policy of the European Union as a whole or by a number of Member States that want to go further in that cooperation, with more strong power, in addition to soft power?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u5	I think it is difficult to take the European Union as a whole. After all, defence cooperation is growing from the bottom up in general. It also asks a lot, because it means jumping well over shadows of its own sovereignty when you really integrate. We have had a number of finger exercises with our surrounding countries, in which we act together and use material together. But it is my belief that in a world where power politics play a major role, it is important that you are able to counter with like-minded countries where it is necessary, or to jump in where others drop holes. The chance that the United States will help us with problems in Africa, for example, is not so great at the moment. If we leave the things that are happening there to their fate, it may have serious repercussions for stability and security, and for the protection of our citizens. So part of the answer to your question is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u6	I agree with Mr Knapen that we should not leave these areas to their fate. I am concerned about what kind of response Europe should then formulate. I have spoken in my own speech about the ring of instability around Europe, which is often referred to. We have seen examples of hard power, intervention and active action, also supported by the European Union and sometimes leading some European countries in the recent past, such as the interventions in Iraq and Libya. Then I would argue that hard power often returns as a boomerang, so the question is: how can Europe, even outside its borders, work to strengthen and defend those values? And are military interventions the appropriate means? Is that what Mr Knapen is calling for in his speech when it comes to increased military cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u7	Part of that is a question I asked the Minister, so perhaps we can come back to that later. After all, I asked him what he thought of this European defence initiative. In part, it is also the case that I have less fundamental views on whether something like a boomerang comes back or not. Sometimes it does, sometimes it doesn't. Sometimes it is urgently necessary to act to prevent more severe evil, sometimes it is highly unwise because you do not know how to get out when you step in. I do not believe that there is any black and white rule that military action is, by definition, unwise. We probably disagree on that. Mr. Chairman. More foreign policy with our European partners is also important when it comes to Turkey and Russia. Whether it is boycott measures against Russia or the way we deal with Erdogan and the Turkish diaspora here, we are so much stronger when we can align with a relevant group of European Member States. As has already been said, this must be carried by a coalition of European states. The Commission may at most facilitate, not legitimise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u8	I am thinking about what Mr Knapen has just said: it is not black and white and the boomerang may or may not come back. I agree with Mr Knapen that there are, of course, cases where military intervention could be justified and effective. We have merely argued that we have not seen this in the recent past. But when we talk about the multilateral world order, which is based on rules and which Mr Knapen would like to defend, the rule always applies that such interventions must take place within the framework of the UN Charter. That is precisely what is at the heart of this multilateral world order, that international legal order. When I listen to Mr Knapen, he seems to suggest the following. In the context of America first, America goes its own way and intervenes whenever it wants. Maybe Russia will, too. So I ask Mr Knapen: should Europe perhaps do so, even outside the framework of the UN?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u9	I do not believe that I have made a plea for more action outside the UN. It's happened before. Once upon a time that was inevitable and once upon a time that was unwise, but in principle you do so within the UN framework. Let me give you the example of Chad. There, according to UN rules, there would be an opportunity and an urgency to intervene, because there was a threat of a major humanitarian tragedy, with all the consequences, including for immigration flows here. I believe that the European Union has met for 14 months. In particular, it was about who would participate and who would pay for it. It ended up jammed. I think that for the defence of your own interests is unwise. Madam President. The reality of Brussels has certain alienation effects. For example, foreign ministers in Brussels can meet on Africa as if the formulation of European positions were equivalent to European policy. Finance ministers can argue for years about financial buffers without ever falling the word "Africa." According to the bureaucratic logic of things, all this is true: saving a bank in Sienna has nothing to do with a refugee crisis in Libya. But appearances are deceiving, because at the same time there is a political, a higher reality: how strong are we towards the outside world? Does the outside world see a group of European countries showing combined power, resilience and strength, or does he see a group of countries that deeply distrust each other, those populations that are easy to play against each other and that consider the Brussels Chamber merely as an arena where the profit of one person is the loss of the other? The defence of our values and interests can only be achieved if there is a core of financial and economic strength, of authority and of collective self-confidence. It has been lacking too much, as witnessed by the long-term euro crisis. It has also left deep traces of distrust. That's gotta stop. Internal paralysis undermines external impact. Perhaps it is not possible: a strong euro area with these nineteen participating countries. I'd like to hear the Minister on that. Madam President. The government agreement said sensible things about strengthening the euro area. It produced some lukewarm enthusiasm for a European monetary fund. In any case, our cabinet does not want a stabilisation fund for economic shocks and not its own euro area budget. We are not waiting for a European Minister for Finance here either. As far as the Banking Union is concerned, we also want to look after our cash register, so no joint deposit guarantee scheme until all banks in Europe have cleaned up their balance sheets. Those are all sensible things. No one is waiting for permanent transfers from North to South.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u10	Mr Knapen talks about avoiding the Brussels arena and acting on the basis of confidence, but less than a minute later he thinks it wise to look very much at self-interest, its own wallet, its own point of view and its own. How does he rhyme with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u11	I can achieve this by asking Mr Postema for five minutes of patience, because that answer may not be satisfactory for him, but it will come immediately after this. As I said, in the coalition agreement there were all sensible things, because no one is waiting for permanent transfers from North to South. Moreover, recent history has shown that Member States that put their own house in order are then better able to grow and compete in a healthy way. Yet the story with this coalition agreement does not end. Six months later, the image can no longer be merely coloured with suspicion and suspicion of the debate on a stronger eurozone, which was sparked up in France. Firstly, unlike its predecessors, the French President is now making serious work of socio-economic reforms in his own country. Labour contracts and dismissal law have been flexible, tax reforms have been implemented. Of course, the work is in progress and the "see first, then believe" attitude in our country is understandable. At the same time, the reform programme is running this time. It is too simple to take French suggestions away now only with the usual sneaks to southern European countries that do not reform and are only targeting our wallet. More importantly, we cannot ignore the position of neighbouring Germany with which we have been de facto sharing our currency for 35 years now. It is true that there is a similar degree of caution in a large majority of the population against anything that reeks of a transfer union. And we can cherish that. At the same time, for this by far largest country in the Union, a lonely position without political allies is a nightmare. The political vitality of the European centre is vitally important there. As a result, it is essential for Germany that the French President succeeds in his reform mission, as this opens the way to Franco-German initiatives to strengthen the European core. Strengthening that core is also in our interest. That may be said. Or does the government see it differently? If Macron fails, then powerlessness is our Western European foreland. Because the international climate is bleak and this part of Europe threatens to become a game ball of external forces. Strengthening the European core can ensure that we are better able to protect ourselves in this part of the world. Without any protection from the cold sides of globalisation, our way of living together will be compromised and Member States will be more easily played against each other. This can be done as easily by giants like Facebook or Google as by state superpowers like China or America. This broader context matters. It is a pity that this context is virtually absent, even in this cabinet. The euro will only be legitimised technically and economically, as if we, as microbiologists, were able to look through a microscope, but never around us. For Germany, however, the euro is, precisely in view of this broader context, also and above all a political project. There will therefore be greater willingness to compromise in the euro domain. It would be good to include the Dutch public in that broader context. If you do not, then every compromise there will look like defeat here. This does not do justice to the breadth of interests that are also at stake for our country. For example, it is very wise for our country to be critical of a stability fund to cope with shocks, but the chance that the big International Monetary Fund in Washington might want to burn its fingers in the euro area next time is not so great. And then what? Even the o-so cautious Klaus Regling of the European Stability Mechanism, the ESM, can imagine situations where stabilisation is useful, for example if Finland suddenly gets a hit on by an economic boycott of Russia or, for example, if Ireland later gets an extra tap if the Brexit causes Northern Ireland additional damage. In short, it should be possible to participate in the revitalisation of the European core without denying ourselves, but also in view of the wider interest, including for us. Because only then can a compromise get the meaning of victory instead of defeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u12	I listen handcuffed to Mr Knapen's very interesting speech. I'm just gonna let it get to me. If Franco-German cooperation intensified, Europe's core would become stronger. It should become the axis of a new Europe, so that we as Europe are not torn apart by world political forces or by economic forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u13	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u14	You also referred earlier to a power-political reflex that would not exist in Brussels. There is, of course, one in these big countries. There is in Paris and there is in Berlin. Of course, other countries in Europe have always looked very critically at this. The path you are pointing would only leave open for smaller countries, including the seven that are now being collected by this cabinet, the option of joining that axis and participating in that power-political reflex that exists in Paris and Berlin, but not in those other countries. How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u15	Without wishing to put it in black and white, I do believe that the importance of Franco-German cooperation in protecting interests in Europe and in Europe vis-à-vis the outside world is better served than by the power bloc of countries such as the Netherlands, together with Ireland, the Baltic States, Sweden and I also believe Denmark.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u16	So now you're thinking from power blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u17	Yeah, you asked about that. Madam President, Mr Kuiper asked for that, otherwise I would not, because I have other preferences, but that is not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u18	Yes, no, but my question was whether these other countries have any option other than to join, say, the political will of the big countries. So that element. Another element, so the second which I would like to mention is the following: Europe has always had its own reflexes for this in cooperation too, by paying great attention in cooperation to security and to working together, precisely in order to achieve these goals? So would there really be no alternative but to increase power through the way of Paris and Berlin?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u19	I will come to the last part, but what I am trying to point out is that the changes of recent years, and especially the departure of Great Britain, which I shall come back to, have changed something very substantially. In one way or another, we will have to do justice to that rather substantial change. I cannot speak on behalf of Sweden or the Baltic States, but given the place where the Netherlands lies, the interests it has and the ideals it pursues, I can not only imagine, but I would not find it so strange to suggest that as many of its own ideals as possible, interests are being put forward, but with due regard for the need for a decent and good compromise between France and Germany, because then we are ultimately better off than in the absence of such cooperation and the failure of such cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u20	Finally, Mr Kuiper, at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There would therefore be no way of stepping up cooperation in order to cope with these risks. Will you give it up? That has always been the European road, hasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u22	One does not have to rule out the other, but it is obvious that where everyone is currently looking for how Europe is dealing with this changing international context, it cannot logically come from the European Commission. I have explained my motivation to come to that conclusion and that it could possibly come from these two countries. At least one has an international geopolitical reflex. On the other hand, as far as Mr Kuiper is concerned, I would like to put another question, but that is perhaps another discussion. Finally, the Dutch position in Europe. You once had a classic battle between so-called "atlantics" and Europeans. In the Foreign Office, many people have had a day's work on it for many years. That's over, dramatically marked by the Brexit and Trump. So far few words have been dirtyed up in our country, but it is quite a lot. It is true that we belong to the continental core of the European Union, but we also live with the face of the ocean, towards the West. In this sense, the Brexit has deprived us of more than an important trading partner. It gave us mental positioning in Europe, a certain balance, given also our orientation to the Anglo-Saxon world, language and culture and our similar reflexes in terms of free trade, pragmatism and, according to some, humor. The Brexit now pushes us with skin and hair and in the European mainland. That's more getting used to than many people want to realize. The Brexit is of course primarily for the British themselves a drama. The foreplay is old. At the end of the day, I would like to think about it, because it is also so instructive for us. In the 1980s, a Brussels correspondent of the Daily Telegraph made himself immeasurably popular in parts of British society with columns on bureaucratic absurdism in Brussels. We owe it to all these silly examples, such as that one Brussels official who is responsible all day long for the precise definition of a crooked banana. Those columns were of course usually a bit cheap bullshit but it fell into fertile soil. Schamping over Brussels has gradually become compulsory in Britain, years earlier than in our country. Now let's fast forward to the end of 2017. The same former correspondent has just returned from a visit to Ghana. In the meantime, he is Minister of Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom. He tells, just back, how on his plane from Ghana all life-size identical pieces of pineapple are stored in the luggage compartment. That is because this idiotic protectionist European Union bans the import of pineapple juice from Africa and imposes precise requirements on the dimensions of those pineapple slices. The Minister said that these identical slices should only be pressed into juice here in our factories. That was fun for Boris Johnson's hearing in London. And the free Britain would soon put an end to that in a reborn Commonwealth, as he promised under cheerful applause. Now, in reality, there were no pieces of pineapple in that plane, so learned question later. Moreover, Ghana can simply export its own pineapple juice to Europe according to the rules. You could say embarrassing chatter. But what the hell. Unlike here, the lie is an asset. The more flagrant the lie, the more furious the establishment becomes. And that anger is fuel again for the populist supporters of leaders like Johnson. Those who take the measure of confusion and grandeur of the last year's British political leaders, can hardly but watch head-shakingly how a government elite has forsaken there. We are witnessing a toxic mixture of nostalgia and cynicism. As a cook knows: what you then have left and what you only taste is frivolity. The Union must not negotiate with this. The British leadership must know that frivolity is being repaired, not with revenge but with administrative solidity. A lesson can be learned from all this for us. Those who stand on the sidelines for years, who continue to postulate the European project as something of them and not of us, can expect the public to see it at a good time. In a fit of anger and lightness you can harvest a storm like Brexit. Madam President, I'm finishing up. This new cabinet has an expensive duty to take our country, our citizens, into a new reality for Europe in the world. A reality with far-reaching consequences, including for us. A reality for which we cannot simply flee by talking about Mexican walls or a departure from our own continent. In fact, a reality that offers us the opportunity to reshine our values and interests with partners in Europe and to enter the world with a sense of pride. I hope that this cabinet will work on this and I look forward to the exchange of views.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u23	I found the second part of Mr Knapen's speech equally fascinating. I do have a question about that. It is striking that Mr Knapen is talking about the discussion we used to have between atlantics and Europeanists and the fact that there is now a new reality with Trump and after the Brexit. Does this mean that the CDA sees this as a new line and that, as far as the CDA is concerned, it is no longer about atlanticism, but that a new continentism is actually being inaugurated, in the sense of: France and Germany are our partners, which is the reality, and we might want to change, but given the developments on the other side of the ocean and the Channel, we will have to embrace that? Is that the conclusion that I can draw from this argument? Is this the new line?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u24	I understand Mr Van Apeldoorn's eagerness to ask for the new line. Our party does not know such a sanhedrin where precise lines are drawn each time. This is not a line either, but a smooth sketch. What I am trying to point out is that the classic contradiction that existed in the past has been shifting for a number of years, simply because the United States is no longer willing to do so under President Obama to get the chestnuts out of the fire each time for Europe. What Obama called "leading from behind" was actually a euphemistic way of saying: you have to do your own thing now and then. This is a development that is reflected in a heightened and sometimes too strongly with the current President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u25	I thought it was an interesting speech by Mr Knapen. In fact, he puts the whole of European policy more in the global context. Throughout his speech, he is actually arguing for more external force, precisely because otherwise we will miss the boat because of the US's withdrawal. However, I have not heard so clearly from Mr Knapen what this should mean for EU foreign policy. Does Mr Knapen now argue for more clarity in this, in the sense that it is necessary for more power, but does he therefore call for more powers to be delegated, for example to compromise more often on the attitude you adopt on the world platform? How does he see that impact force growing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u26	I mentioned a few elements. Firstly, it is important that there should be more European defence cooperation. Secondly, I assume that it will not be so easy with 27 Member States, because the differences are too large. You need a certain degree of destiny in order to be able to work really intensively in the field of defence. Thirdly, I believe that a coalition of relevant, important countries can play a leading role in this when it comes to the more solid formulation of foreign policy than has been the case so far. Ideally, I would strongly support a common foreign policy of 27 Member States. In one case, it's gonna happen, too. The measures against Russia are an example of this; this has happened with 27 Member States. I can also imagine the situation in which the urgency, the importance of this part of Europe is so great that a coalition of the 'able and the willing' can come up with positions and take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u27	Thank you, Mr. Knapen. I give the floor to Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u28	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the previous speakers, in particular Mr Schaap and Mr Knapen. I must say that I am impressed by their input, by their forward-looking European input. Mr Knapen even took the word "ideals" in his mouth. Politicians can also be expected to take the people they represent into their ideals. What exactly is the desired future and how are we going to bring it closer? These are fundamental political questions. And that doesn't turn out to be easy. Rutger Bregman of The Correspondent states that as a society, we are lost in dreaming of the future. Radical ideas about another, better world have become almost literally unthinkable. "Utopia" is often a negative, alienating word nowadays. But what does it turn out to be? Without utopia, only technocracy remains. Thus, politically, there is a risk of becoming problem management. Now, with the ignition of the financial and economic crisis, there were also the necessary problems to manage. Falling banks, in fact bankrupt Member States, mass unemployment, especially among young people, and people who saw the value of their homes and their pension structure evaporate very quickly. Europe was not prepared for such a crisis and it is to be praised how it has been dealt with. Our country did not play an insignificant role in this by addressing its own domestic problems and by showing leadership on the European stage, particularly in the euro crisis by our finance minister. Jeroen Dijsselbloem considered the title "technocrat" to be a nickname and thus in fact underlines my argument. Unfortunately, there was also little room for reflection in the aftermath of the financial and economic crisis, when the flow of refugees to Europe increased sharply. Here too, problem-solving has taken place and here, too, the Labour Party, with party leader Diederik Samsom, has wanted to take responsibility for the so-called Turkey deal. This is far from ideal. There's no misunderstanding about that. It does, however, provide a boost to a much improved structure to deal with the issue of refugees and to develop a European asylum and migration policy. And then there was the dramatic outcome of the British referendum. There is a lot to say, but still little to say about it. The fact is that this has also led to an immense number of issues which all must be addressed in order to achieve a renewed cooperation. It is important, as was the case with the euro crisis and the refugee crisis, to continue to act on the basis of our values. As a result of Mr Knaap's speech, we should not be distracted by Trump and Johnson. It is precisely when it gets exciting that these values need to be maintained. That is the power of value-driven leadership: the inner compass gives direction and is recognized, even when things become hectic and unclear. But we have to move on. Where to? For this, ideals and views are needed. "Europe quo vadis?', This was the title of the contribution of our former colleague Klaas de Vries to the 2013 reflections. Maybe it was a little early for that question back then. However, we are now five years ahead and there are White Papers, scenario analyses and leadership agendas waiting for a Dutch response. How do we intend to proceed with the European Union? What does the 2030 and 2050 Europe look like for us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u29	I would like to return to an earlier part of Mr Postema's speech. I am glad that he is also talking about the ideals and future-orientedness with regard to Europe. That appeals to us. He just said that the EU-Turkey deal is far from perfect, but it does provide a good basis. I would like to ask Mr Postema what he sees as the imperfections of that Turkey deal and whether it is possible to improve that Turkey deal and at least its implementation. A report by Human Rights Watch recently showed that hundreds, if not thousands, of Syrian refugees are being sent back to Syria. That is a clear violation of the non-refoulement principle. There is still a case in which the Turkey deal is in practice contrary to international law. What lessons do we learn from that? I am referring, for example, to possible other refugee deals, or deals with other countries in terms of making migration flows manageable, as this cabinet has intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u30	I have tried to argue that, in the architecture of the solution, it was chosen to take up in the region, then to look at who would really be eligible to get asylum in Europe and to get those people to our own country, for example. I think that's a good find. To some extent, it has also done its job in reducing the very negative effects of the flow of refugees. I very much agree that there are still major abuses on the Turkish side as well as on the side of other partners. It can only be said that, as interlocutors, you are constantly questioning these abuses and bringing them to a solution. We both know this isn't easy. What political choices are part of the 2030 and 2050 Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u31	The debate was just about the EU-Turkey deal. Mr Postema indicated that there were some imperfections and that we should continue to talk about them. The deal indeed assumes that people will stay there in the region and that we will decide how many people will come to Europe. How does Mr Postema look at the numbers of refugees we are inviting in Europe? Are they in proportion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u32	No, that's obviously not enough. That is also one of the tricks of the Turkey deal. We have a lot of criticism of the execution on the Turkish side, but of course we have not served our side of the story, by taking up far too few refugees who are eligible. I have tried to argue that this is also part of our work, namely that the architecture of the solution as such in the Turkey deal has been a good and very useful step at that time, but that there are very serious problems in its implementation. Those are not details, but those are essential points. This applies both on the Turkish side and on the side of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u33	Shouldn't binding resettlement quotas be included in that architecture itself instead of: we make this deal and then we look at how many people we take in? Shouldn't that be an intrinsic part of concluding such an agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u34	I find it difficult to answer such an explicit question from this pulpit. Imagine if you really worked with quantitative quotas, then you would also make a statement about the extent of the refugee flows and the size of the group that is eligible. I think that is unwise in several respects. However, I very much agree with Mrs Strik that you need to define mechanisms as such on what reception should look like in our own European countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u35	Continue, but no more from the pulpit, Mr. Postema. This is an impressive environment, but "spoke chair" is also okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u36	Another illusionally poor man. I was talking about the preview and the political choices involved. This may be too big a question for the ministers who are here today, because of course a ministerial team focuses on four years and on a lot of things that just need to be managed. I've just mentioned a few things. However, I wanted to put these big questions at the heart of my speech today. Hopefully, therefore, we can expect more from them than from the Prime Minister, who repeatedly advocates the lack of vision. Not long ago Prime Minister Rutte mentioned visions of Europe as "buggering" and "psychological disorders." On Friday 2 March, however, he broke this line with his speech in Berlin and acknowledged that it was "secretly a vision" after all. How does the Foreign Minister see this now, so we ask him? Is what the Prime Minister put forward there really the vision of this cabinet for the future of Europe? In this case, the Labour Party would like to present an alternative perspective based on five characteristics of Europe and make them concrete by linking them to a number of issues that urgently need to be answered. Mr. Chairman. Europe is a political community. This goes far beyond the description of the Prime Minister in his Berlin speech as if Europe were merely a partnership of sovereign states. This is not a matter of treaty law or practice: the European Union is much more than that. That was also the small debate that Mr Van Apeldoorn and I had with Mr Schaap. After all, sovereignty has been transferred in many areas, knowingly and knowingly, and fortunately. That transfer is also not simply revocable, as the painful course of events with the Brexit shows. It is precisely by recognizing this that we put ourselves in a position to answer a number of urgent questions. With the proposed Brexit, the question is how to proceed with the 27 Member States. The current decision-making process is crippling. See, for example, the discussions on migration. Do we want to work with leading groups in certain areas, or are we trying to keep the Union together by streamlining decision-making in some way? In our opinion, the latter should be preferred. But then we must ensure that the institution of the European Union becomes more democratic and political, more than a technocratic machinery. That also makes sense in the mindset. If you follow our thinking that there is indeed a transfer of sovereignty, then it is also part of that that you must firmly anchor it democratically. A political community based on social democracy rests at all times on a solid democratic foundation. This also applies to the various levels of government in their own country, and it can only apply to Europe. The representation of the European Parliament and the European administration will thus have to be able to measure itself effectively with the representation as embodied, for example, in the municipal or national administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u37	This transfer of sovereignty will separate us, but I have a question on the basis of that, about the democratization of Europe. I would like to know more precisely what Mr Postema is proposing. Does this mean a transfer of powers to the European Parliament, so that, for example, there will be a separation of powers and the European Parliament will become a kind of legislative power?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u38	I'm sure you can think of that. I do not have a blueprint ready, but along the way of strengthening the European Parliament, which has already been substantially achieved by the Treaty of Lisbon, as well as reducing the role of the European Council and promoting the role of the Commission and further democratization of that process, it seems that representativeness is getting closer in the view of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u39	Perhaps one step further, if I draw a parallel with the national states, the Members: should the European Commission be appointed, for example, from Parliament, by Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u40	Yeah, that's a logical conclusion. I asked Mr Schaap about this for a reason: where does he actually draw the line, when can you actually speak of a state? Since I do not know the answer, I asked Mr Schaap. Let's be clear: that's quite a search. The European Union is, of course, a unique construction, also in the form of a treaty. In this search, the PvdA Group is in any case in favour of taking steps forward from ideals which must always serve the power and democratic content of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u41	I'm gonna keep this up. Mr Knapen just said that the European Commission is actually too weak politically to be able to do anything in Europe. That is also because it is bound by the current treaties, which do not provide for a political role for the Commission. The European Council has indeed jumped into that gap in recent years, has met more often and has given Europe more political strength, so to speak. Why don't you take that line? It would then be possible for the national parliaments to bring about this democratization. Is that line also weighted in your group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u42	It would not be good if we did not weigh that line, but I find it less obvious, because for us Europe is more than the sum of its parts. It seems to us that the Commission's own powers are in line with both the power of action and the ability to act from a genuinely European perspective. However, we have also seen, particularly at the time of the euro crisis, how incredibly important it is for the European Council and the Heads of Government to assume their responsibilities. But that was also due to the lack of instruments for the Commission and the public administration, which still had to be created to deal with the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u43	Does this mean that the Labour Party is also in favour of a radical change in the Treaties, in order to give effect to that political role of the Commission? 'Cause you can't do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u44	In fact, I would speak of a further development. We welcome the treaties that are now in place. We must also cherish and guard them. From there, from an ideal perspective, what do we want with the European Union in 2030 or 2050? We can then see what can be further strengthened about these treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u45	Do I hear Mr Postema now pleading for an even more political Commission than we already have? What does that mean in terms of democratic legitimacy? Could the European Parliament send the Commission or individual Commissioners home? Is the PvdA Group not afraid that we are going to create some sort of bogus democratic government with that political Commission? The fact remains that the European Commission does not consist of elected politicians, but of officials appointed by Member States. How, then, in Mr Postema's vision and ideal, can you regulate this properly democratically, as long as it does not become a real European government? Is that the road the PvdA Group wants to take?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u46	Well, even more political... It's almost like "political" is a dirty word. I would simply like to place it in the perspective of, for example, a strong common foreign policy. That's also politics, with a big P. I will come back to this in a moment, but I think there is a great need, including in the Netherlands, for a much stronger common European foreign policy. There's no other way than to do that from a political mandating point of view. That's what's missing right now. This mechanism must be strengthened. Then we are ideally choosing the Commission's line of action to do so, and, as has already been discussed, we are also open to suggestions for doing things, perhaps as an intermediate, through the Council. But in the final perspective, it seems to us to be on the Commission's path.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u47	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u48	Of course, "politics" isn't a dirty word at all. You'll never hear me say that. But the crucial question, the key question, is whether the Commission has and can have this political mandate and under what circumstances. Once again, politics is great, but it is a matter of politicians, and European Commissioners are not politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u49	There seems to be some kind of contradiction that I don't recognize. The Commission, of course, has a lot of mandate in its own way and uses it, but we see, for example, that it is still too little in the field of foreign policy. Mr Knapen's speech was that it would also be very difficult to operate with 27. You should see how to strengthen that mandate. This also has something to do with the willingness of the Member States to give up some of their control.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u50	Mr. Schaap, you may interrupt again, but if we stay so busy, it'll be 3:00 a.m. tonight, won't it? You know what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u51	I'm so excited that I'm willing to do that. The Commission has a mandate. That is the lightest form of transfer, namely: carry on. That's all. In order for the Commission to carry out this political function, you need to go further. You yourself mentioned the transfer of sovereignty. It will then be transferred by the Member States into a kind of united Europe, with even a competence for foreign policy. Are you going that far?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u52	I have tried to argue that the strength of the European Union would be served by further strengthening the European institutions, including those of the Commission, but not just those of the Commission, because various other institutions we have rigged are incredibly valuable. I'll get back to you on that. If, in the geopolitical situation in which we have been moving for a number of years, the European Union is operating more effectively, you must also organise that force with each other and, especially if you link it to a defence issue or a defence vision, you must also be prepared as a separate Member State to surrender a piece of your sovereignty to that effect. Mr. Chairman. Europe is a community of values. I've heard that several times today. Fundamental freedoms, fundamental security, democracy, good governance and the rule of law are examples of genuinely codified values. These values then form the basis for a large number of strong institutions, perhaps the most decisive factor for European success. However, our values are under pressure. Poland and Hungary are subject to Article 7 procedures at the initiative of the European Commission and the European Parliament, due to serious violations of the rule of law. But as it stands, it is unlikely that these will lead to sanctions in the European Council. How can we create an effective rule of law mechanism that actually sanctions violations? In my group's view, this requires further strengthening of supranational Community institutions. The proposal to create a European Public Prosecutor's Office, which was put to the vote and postponed until next week, is an excellent example of this. The initiatives to make decision-making in the European Council more transparent, Mr Van Apeldoorn, rightly referred to this and, rather, to reducing the role of the Council, are important for the further strengthening of Europe as well as both a community of values and a political community. We can also see how these notions are more interconnected: values are the basis for institutions that in turn are needed to protect those values. Mr. Chairman. Europe has the potential to become a security and defence community. In the meantime, there is broad support for this. For years, opinion polls have shown that people believe that the EU should act more vigorously in the field of foreign affairs. And after in vain attempts at the beginning of the 1950s, a new momentum appears to emerge to create a European defence community, fully as a partner of NATO. My group welcomes this, but is concerned about the level of ambition. Is the unanimity rule, the right of veto for individual Member States, actually abandoned? Is the government prepared to do so? And is there really, effective and efficient cooperation, for example, by agreeing on what the commitment per country is for the various military components or, rather, an allocation of military tasks? The world around us has become more unsafe. The use of nuclear weapons is being openly discussed. With Trump's arrival, US involvement in Europe is shrinking and, at the same time, calls for significantly more commitment to NATO than has been shown in recent decades. However, the question is whether this commitment should be translated merely into increasing defence budgets to 2% of our gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u53	I have a question for my colleague as regards the European army that is being set up. What is the point of this if we can operate well under NATO, which has brought us 75 years of peace?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u54	In any case, I very much agree with the last part of the statement that cooperation with NATO has brought us peace. I'm not gonna take anything away from that either. What I do note is that in terms of military capacity there is a lot to gain from effective cooperation, including in the field of the sharing of military resources and perhaps of military components. These are steps that have never been taken in the NATO Treaty in this way. The second point, which I have already referred to, is that there has simply been another situation with the arrival of the new American President. We are asked to translate this commitment financially, a task that we are far from being able to meet. That is why it is relevant to talk about this with each other: how are we going to solve it? I do not think that 2% will happen in the coming years. I think everyone agrees on that. How are we gonna do that? My plea is to look much more closely at military cooperation within Europe. Not against NATO, but as a sensible next step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u55	But why should we not cooperate with European countries under the NATO flag? In fact, we're already doing that, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u56	There will certainly be cooperation, once again. We are calling for a more far-reaching form of cooperation, linking Europe's role on the world stage with our defence mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u57	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u58	I do not think we should live in the illusion that a European army is as powerful and as effective as we can currently be with NATO together with the Americans. After all, it is the Americans who place the greatest weight on the scale, including in terms of impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u59	I'm not fighting that last one either. Why, as my group wonders, is there no link between effective European defence cooperation and NATO deployment? How does the government view the development of its own European (civil) military capacity? How does it relate to national capacity? Here we see opportunities for strong, effective defence cooperation which simultaneously offers opportunities to keep the cost of military expenditure on our budget limited, so that we can spend our taxpayers' money as much as possible on education, care and income security. The issue of refugees divides the EU. There is no agreement yet on a fair redistribution mechanism within the EU. Does the government wish to enforce the reception of refugees with sanctions from non-cooperating Member States or are there other ways in which Member States can contribute? It is conceivable that the flow of migrants from Africa and the Middle East will continue to increase in the coming years. How does the government intend to deal with that? And how is it guarded that shelter in the region, as it is so beautifully called, does not become the unsafe, degrading situation that is currently taking place in Libya? How does the government secure European support for Minister Kaag's courageous call for the immediate closure of detention centres there? In this context, Turkey's position is also important. When the Turkey deal, which has been mentioned and which has just been discussed here, was concluded, Turkey was promised full prospect of future accession. Last week, MEP Kati Piri of the Labour Party called for that perspective to be removed if Turkey decides later this year on the proposed constitutional revision, in which the separation of powers is finally brought to an end. In doing so, Piri fully advocates our Europe as a community of values. Does the government share this attitude? The Balkan countries also need the prospect of accession to the EU. The debate on this subject will become more and more topical in the coming years. As far as my group is concerned, it is clear that these countries belong historically to the European family, as it is equally obvious that there are serious geopolitical reasons for maintaining ties with the Balkans. Nevertheless, this also requires that no concessions can and must be made to the values, fundamental freedoms and rights attached to the EU. The government shares this attitude, so we ask the Minister. And in this context, what is the government's assessment of the European Commission's report, A credible increase perspective for the Western Balkans, which was issued last month? Does the government see any additional opportunities to support Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia and Kosovo in their accession process, which transcends the offer of ticking lists? The Brexit negotiations once again show how incredibly powerful the European Union's internal market and trade agreements are. But do we also dare to make trade an instrument for improving social standards and environmental standards, such as the draft initiative law on child labour that is still under discussion here? And how does the government at least ensure that the current standards are maintained as a lower limit, as in the discussion on the TTIP trade agreements with the US and CETA with Canada? Mr. Chairman. Europe is a social and solidarity community. That, too, makes Europe unique in the world. It is essential to draw concrete conclusions from this. We want less competition on labour costs. We welcome and are proud of the outcome of our colleague Agnes Jongerius, who led the negotiations on behalf of the European Parliament and who drew up the new proposal for the European Detachment Directive, on which an agreement was reached last month. Workers in Europe who do the same work but come from another country are now paid the same. Cao's should be applied to Polish plumbers and Romanian construction workers. If it is not a logical next step to go to a standard, or at least a lower limit, for European contributions and taxes, we ask the Minister of Finance. The inequality between Eastern and Western Europe has only increased since the accession of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. The gap between rich and poor within most EU countries has also widened, particularly between North and South. What can and should the EU do in the government's view to reduce these differences? As far as my group is concerned, this task is not without obligation. It wants to be suggested that we saved Greece, but in fact we wanted to save our banks. If 40% of young people in Spain, Italy and Greece do not have a job, this calls for action. And action costs money. Is the government prepared to make money available through Europe? Mr. Chairman. Europe is a financial and economic community. With the euro crisis just behind us, it sometimes seems as if this is the most important perspective, but my group opposes it. I'm not gonna end this for nothing. The euro has survived the financial and economic crisis, but not without art and flying, often at the expense of taxpayers. The euro is also entangled in rigid rules, which are mainly abused to serve the national interest. The future of the euro will remain high on the agenda in the coming years. The question to the Minister for Finance is: how can we strengthen the euro and who is at the heart of a possible future financial and economic crisis? Earlier, the Labour Party in this Chamber called for the further development of EMU, whereby a single currency also implies common government bonds, so that there can no longer be speculation on the position of individual Member States. So far there has always been a sparing response to this,'suspicious' as it is called in the north, and the coalition agreement is not enthusiastic about it either. Nevertheless, I am curious to see how the new Finance Minister views this. But it goes beyond that. Tax avoidance is increasing the anger of the "ordinary" taxpayer. Why are multinational companies getting off with a bargain, when the butcher on the corner has to pay the full pound? Unfortunately, the Netherlands has a central role to play in this scandalous tax avoidance. Only at European level can a dam be created here, although this should not prevent the Netherlands from immediately stopping facilitating tax avoidance and from taking part in shifting taxes, away from multinationals and towards consumers. How do we stop, so we ask the Minister, so himself and at European level, the race to the bottom? Mr President, I will conclude. I am going back to the strength of European cooperation. Europe is a political community, a community of values, and a security and defence community, and a social and solidarity community, and a financial and economic community. Europe has the people, the resources and the institutions to build a society in which it is good for all to live and live together. However, this wealth must be exploited in the right way: protecting, solidarity, sustainable and development-oriented. It is precisely on these aspects that Europe can distinguish itself over the coming decades and be a guiding factor in this. To be sure that Europe offers protection is what we want. Protection against terrorism, insecurity, climate change, protection of workers. This requires, also for this government, that solidarity does not end at the border. This requires that the motto is no longer what is to be achieved in Europe, as it sometimes seems when we see the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance in Brussels doing their shopping, but what we can do together. This requires that sustainability does not only come true when it is hip, technologically possible, or win-win, but when sustainability also means that we dare to adapt our way of life. This requires that we really lead the way in investing in the development of people, regardless of their age. And yes, the English language sometimes fits better than the Dutch, a vocational training in Eupen better than in Arnhem, "All Men became Brüder" than the Wilhelmus. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Postema. I give the floor to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u61	Mr. Chairman. The rulers Blok and Hoekstra have taken office at a time when the world as we know it makes way for a completely different one. With both your calmness and intelligence, you are well suited to play the role that is needed more than ever: the role of a connecter in a turbulent world. Madam President. The media are full of evidence of our ability to do evil every day, but as the philosopher Susan Neiman wrote, most of our days of life also confirm our ability to do good. Fortunately, that thought has taken root in many places in the coalition agreement. There is a great deal of ambition in the areas of climate, poverty reduction, security and migration. You are primarily responsible for the implementation of this. It's not here. Recently I saw the film Darkest Hour. I don't know if you've been there. This film takes us back to the beginning of World War II, when France and the Low Countries are occupied. They've been overwhelmed by Nazi Germany. The film shows the doubts that British Prime Minister Churchill had for a few days. In those decisive days, it's about whether we fight or not? And then he makes an important decision for world history to do so, to fight. That was a snappy moment in history. And yes, for once it was nice to know the end of a movie. There was also President Roosevelt who wanted to help Europe, but the supporters of isolationism were not allowed to do so, at least at the time. Then there was Pearl Harbor, and the rest is history. Mr. Chairman. It has just been said in a different way by Mr Knapen. What the film reminds us of is that the solidarity of the United States and the United Kingdom with the European continent is never self-evident. But we've come to see it that way. I grew up in that tradition. But wrongly, because with all due respect for the letter and spirit of NATO, all the promises and all the integration we have, the European continent is ultimately dependent on itself for its own independence. Now more than ever. Because now that Trump's America is putting itself so demonstratively first, America first! The EU does not escape its own responsibility for building its own institutions, for its security and for a more independent role in the world. And I note that the core countries of Germany and France have already come to this conclusion. Today I would like to encourage the rulers to respond constructively to this. I am happy to be in the company of colleagues. At this time we are also experiencing a pivotal moment in the history of European cooperation. Maybe it's less appealing than the movie I described. And maybe someday a movie will be made about it, but we don't know the outcome of it. But if we want it to end well, we have to take care of it ourselves. There's an incredible amount at stake. I do not dramatize it, Mr President, this is a time when we have to make choices. To what extent is the EU capable of promoting democracy, freedom and human rights where necessary? Are we going to give an impetus to European cooperation or are we going to choose to continue muddying? Do we accept stagnation, division and fragmentation? After all, that is the image we sometimes get. A lot of things are happening. Do we know how to reverse the trend? Madam President. Europe, in the vision of D66, can be a beacon of democracy and values in the world. It can distinguish itself sharply and positively from countries such as Russia and China, where the Prime Minister is now visiting. It can also become that pillar in the security and defence structure that is needed. Mr Postema said some very valuable things about this, which I can endorse. Hans van Mierlo has consistently argued throughout his political life for a NATO which consisted of two pillars: an American and a European. So actually the second leg to get up, which Mr Knapen just talked about. This is the moment when we really need to shape this. Chancellor Merkel has already made it clear that Europe must now take its destiny into its own hands. This is an incredible change for the German Chancellor, in the traditional policy of the Federal Republic. Macron joins her and launches a Europe that protects: l'Europe qui protège. That is a huge change for the French, with their own nuclear power and the Gaullist tradition. They have seen the signs of time, and that appeals to us. I would like to hear Mr Blok's analysis of these ambitious plans by the French and German Heads of Government. Where does he see clues for the Netherlands to play into this? Politics as usual, with the emphasis on economy and enthusiasm, is too limited a story, which does not bring us back to the leading group where we belong, especially after the loss of the United Kingdom. That's what's about to happen. We know. Europe will have to reform and modernise, if necessary at different speeds, beyond soft power to a more determined, more credible party that also, as it is called in the world, has "clout" in the negotiations. The big question, of course, is how? By larger and smaller steps, but always concrete and on various tables and chessboards. The rulers are constantly working on this, because the EU is a complex and eclectic structure. But the attitude of the European Parliament, which is important in our efforts and the commitment we demand from the government, 'it is okay with Europe a little less', is a strategy of losers. Mr Knapen has just given an example in the United Kingdom. That's risky. Our country has nothing to gain from a purely conservative policy in Europe. In this respect, there is a fundamental contradiction, and I would like to look at Mrs Faber's between our group and the SP on this point. We are convinced that we only have something to gain from strengthening the institutions. We have just had a debate on the Commission and the Council of Ministers, which also provided the necessary protection against the domination of the large countries within Europe. That is why it is unwise to talk contemptuously about the Commission, as a number of officials, as I have heard the Prime Minister say in this Chamber, as if the European Commission were in the service of the Council. But that is not the way the Treaty is written, and that is not the way it is meant to be. If that were the case, it would also be very difficult for the European Parliament. What should we hold elections for the European Parliament if the idea is that it is only in contact with a committee of officials who carry out the elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u62	D66 calls for the strengthening of the institutions and for the European Commission to do so. The European Commission is not in the service of the Council. That is right, even if you look at the Treaty. But how is the European Commission, with the political mandate that D66 seems to want to give to the Commission, manageable and democratically verifiable? If there are elections in a Member State, this normally means that there will be a new government. Then power is formed. This power is absent from what we call 'European democracy'. That, I believe, is at the heart of the problem. D66 calls for more Europe rather than perhaps a fit, but how does the democratisation which D66 will advocate take shape in Mr Backer's view, especially in relation to the European Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u63	Mr Van Apeldoorn has already started by saying that the European Commission is not a political body, but of course it is. All Commissioners are put in a chair and heard by the European Parliament. Their appointment was approved. They can send them away, too. It's not like that in this room. The process concerning the Spitzenkandidat and the election of Juncker has, of course, been just a political process. There are quite a few things to say about this, including democracy between Parliament and the Commission, a democracy that is quite distant from here. We have visited the European Parliament together, to Article 13 conferences, but it is a different environment and it works differently. In view of the present Treaty and the important commitment it has made, it is incredibly unwise to degrade the role of the Commission. The legislative initiative is still with the Commission and not with the Council. The legislative capacity is also there. There's the trilogues. So there is a whole process, which is complicated, which is not always visible to European citizens and where democracy is not visible enough. If someone says 'the difficult thing about European politics is that there is opposition in the European Parliament, but not so often an opposition that is visible at European level along the same political lines', that is true. How we should organise this: we will find out how we work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u64	In any case, we agree on this point of transparency, but we return to the European Commission. However we qualify it, the fact is that the European Commission has not been elected. Mr Backer refers to the Spitzenkandidat system, but does he really think that this European Commission, which has so clearly profiled itself politically, with Mr Juncker as President of the Commission, deserves more democratic legitimacy because Mr Juncker was elected through the Spitzenkandidat system, and because the EPP is the great party in the European Parliament? Has this made the European citizen more recognizable in that Commission as a reflection of?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u65	Mr Van Apeldoorn asks a lot of questions at once. Yes, I think that this Commission is more political than its predecessor, because that process was missing. The fact that we, as a political group, have perhaps come to the shortest conclusion in the choice of the President is something that we must also note. Whether it is, for the general public, a political body that is visible, they are doing an incredible amount of work. If you see how many countries they come to see, explain and organise meetings, it is much better than the Barroso Commission. Anyway, there are shortages. It must be better and we must work on it, but it is not better to say that the Commission is not a body that plays a role in the political constellation. I will come to that, but a smaller Commission would be much more efficient. There is also room for improvement in that regard. That is also one of President Macron's proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u66	I'd like to move on to something else. Mr Backer has an incredibly consistent story from the point of view of D66. Then it makes perfect sense that you will end up with more Europe. In that case, the government's policy is, to some extent, rather minimalistic. There is also a deep gap between what Mr Backer is saying and what Mrs Faber has just said. That is clear, but Mr Backer sees more Europe as the solution. However, he has also been able to observe that "D66" is also a party to the fact that the people of the European Member States are not experiencing this. We saw that in several elections. Macron may have won, but most people didn't want Le Pen. We have seen the elections in Italy, where mainly anti-EU parties have won. Mr Backer may say that a solution lies in more Europe, but how does he intend to get the people involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u67	That is a task for all of us and not just for D66. Mr Van Dijk takes a lot of countries with totally different situations at the same time. He's taking off President Macron's election a little too easy. However, something very fundamental has happened there. I do not think we should trivialize that. Italy is in a worrying situation right now. The political cycle takes place at a different time in all Member States. Ministers are also constantly meeting new colleagues in the Councils. In order to make the transition immediately that there is insufficient support for the citizens of Europe, I cannot endorse these results. Research doesn't tell us that either. We have the Eurostat surveys, we have the research of the Social and Cultural Planburau for the Netherlands. Support for Europe is consistently strong. There are people who constantly claim that this is not the case and that the citizens do not want to go through all this, but I do not believe that. The turnout for the elections of the European Parliament is not good, I admit, but I think it is too defeatist and factually incorrect to say that the support of European citizens for the European project is falling or is not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u68	It is clear that we have a very different assessment of the situation in this respect. I agree with Mr Backer that one Member State is not the other, but if you look at the growth of what we sometimes call 'populist parties' very easily, then I think that this has everything to do with Europe, which, in their experience, continues. I think that we should think more deeply about this, including D66, even when it comes to the question of which core of truth contains this populist message and how we deal with it. I think that's the big challenge for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u69	That is the case, and I am going to say something about it in the course of my speech. Mr. Chairman. I am also going outside Europe, namely the election of Donald Trump. I see this as a result of a process of democratic normal erosion. Mr Knapen already analysed this development. When you portray your opponents in the political arena as enemies and say about your opponent "put her in jail," the space for cooperation and compromises in politics evaporates. Then there is no longer the necessary tolerance, tolerance and calmness. I refer to Trump's indifference to the Paris climate agreement and to the nuclear agreement with Iran. Furthermore, I refer to the trade wars we are in. Those are just shots before the bow. It is all very unpredictable and only the beginning of what we can expect. Looking back on my own youth I say: the US was not always the moral beacon in the sea. I'm thinking Vietnam War. But each time it recovered, because it is a country with great promises for everyone, there and in the world. It's exactly that promise that evaporates. It's like a waterfall. Fake news is the norm, lying is allowed, not paying taxes is sad. "This is how democracys that," wrote some professors at Harvard recently. Mr President, you know us as optimists, so we are not going to accept that. Except for a few exceptions, such as Mrs Faber's newly re-elected favourite, Mr Orbán in Hungary, does not announce this as the new order. That is what I am saying to Mr Van Dijk. It is not the new order in Europe. We will have to make concrete progress on important issues for the citizens of our country and the European Union. We need to outline a perspective on a better life. It's as simple as that. We must show that we understand citizens' concerns at national and European level. There must continue to be confidence, on the left or right, in the capacity of institutions in Europe and the European capitals to tackle the problems. I think this is the most important thing in the debate on the European Commission and the Council. Doubt of that ability has played a role in America and in the Brexit. We must therefore take significant steps: security at the external borders, defence cooperation, European progress in the lagging regions. That's "l'Europe qui protège." This should also lead to reform of the institutions. I do not go into all the details in the terms of this contribution. I have just mentioned a smaller Commission. A new White Paper, a report and a new variant of Jean Claude Juncker's State of the Union are emerging every day. The European Parliament has adopted a comprehensive resolution on improvements. But a good development after the Brexit is that all 27 are determined to continue together. We have the Bratislava declaration and it has been said again in Rome. It is not a development that others had predicted and which we have now forgotten, namely that the 27 would become divided among themselves, because the consequences of the Brexit are so different. The D66 Group is open to change and deepening European cooperation. The Treaty of Lisbon allows for this. Where adjustments are needed, so be it. Everyone is always very afraid of that and I understand that, if you open Pandora's box, but maybe it will be inevitable at some point. A number of proposals by President Macron, such as on a smaller and more effective Commission, are likely to lead to this. But we also think that some of these proposals are really sensible. I come to the subject raised by colleagues earlier today, namely human rights. The European Union is beginning to work step by step, certainly under the guidance of Commissioner Timmermans, to address the violations of the human rights charter. That's good news. The European Treaties are not a menu of choice. Mr Orbán is mistaken if he thinks he is. The European Commission has now addressed Poland in the violation of the Treaties, but it is a difficult path. How does our new Foreign Minister think I have the word 'new' standing here, but we are again used to him once again to strengthening the effectiveness of its enforcement, at EU level or in bilateral relations? Does he see the possibility of strengthening conditionality, for example through the Structural Funds? After all, Poland and Hungary are countries that are overly profiting from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u70	I have a very short question, related to human rights. It is very interesting what Mr Backer says about this. He himself refers to both the EU Member States and the Netherlands. Even at this point in time we are walking down the door in China for taking in missions and so on, and we know very well that the human rights situation there is seriously deteriorating. There is a violation of the rule of law and I would like to mention room for religions and so on. Yes, how should we reconcile that and how should the cabinet deal with it in the eyes of D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u71	That is the genre question to which a sensible foreign minister can give a good answer, not me. The fact that one is not going well does not mean that we should fail to deal well with countries with which we have treaties on which we can base. Then I come to migration. That is a complex issue, and I cannot do justice to it in a short space of time. I'll try to say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u72	I also brought up the subject of conditionality myself. Does D66 attach to the hard medicine, i.e. cuts on the Structural Funds, what will come hard in countries such as Hungary and Poland? Does D66 ensure that this hard agent is used to provide the values with a good pressure medium?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u73	I have heard your contribution on the complexity and history of these countries. If you ask me like that, it's like we're attached to a hard drug. Of course, that is not the case; it is the outcome. I find it very difficult to judge whether it works, but the expression is 'Christmas Fressen'. If Mr Orbán can finally finance his plans with EU money, this could be a means of seriously forcing him to think. Whether or not it works in this way and exactly how it should be, I would like to leave it to those who are concerned about it, but we are not afraid of it if we have to. Otherwise, it's also a kind of menu. Then you can do one and the other you can't. Mr. Chairman. I have just said that the issue of migration is very difficult to address in this debate, but there are a few questions I would like to ask. What lessons can be learned from the Turkey deal and from the "migration compacts" with countries without direct borders with the EU? Then I think of Libya, Egypt and Niger. How can the Netherlands itself or in European cooperation make a concrete contribution to increasing the capacity of services in Greece, Bulgaria and Italy? Because, of course, there is a huge problem there. Those countries cannot cope with what is being asked of them in the handling of requests. That is where distressing situations arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u74	That is indeed an interesting question. I am very curious to know what lessons the D66 Group is taking from the EU-Turkey deal and from the cooperation we are seeing with Libya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u75	I'm not in a position to take lessons from that. There was an acute situation. It has been resolved by a transaction with Turkey, which has a lot to say about, both about the country with which you do the transaction and about the way you do it. A solution has been looked at that would bring the immediate current to a halt. There have been agreements on reception in the region. You know a lot more about the subject than I do. I'm not a specialist in that, and I'm not pretending to be. I can see that so far it has worked in its effectiveness in the sense that fewer migrants have arrived. But situations have arisen and you have visited the camps which are unacceptable from a humanitarian point of view. Something really has to be done about that. That is my question to the Minister: what can the Netherlands actually contribute to it and by the EU? Apart from the strengthening of the external borders, of Frontex and the capacity of these services, I cannot imagine at this time what that should be. But you're much better at that than I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u76	That effectiveness is indeed a very narrowly explained concept, if you only look at the migration that has come to a standstill. The coalition agreement states that there should be an effective monitoring mechanism for such deals. I can imagine that might have been due to the influence of D66. But if you do, what lessons do you take from that? Imagine that such a monitoring report shows that there is indeed human rights violations, as we now hear about Turkey through Human Rights Watch and as we have heard from many organisations about Libya. What impact should it have on EU policies if it appears that such cooperation leads to, or is at least related to, such human rights violations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u77	I am glad that you have read that, because I think that was the passage on which GroenLinks dropped out at the time. But that monitor should, of course, lead to improvements. I know the cabinet so far in cooperation that if there are situations that we consider unacceptable, either to continue it in this way, or to repeat it in this way in a different context, and if there are options to do better in Europe, they will of course be taken up. The next sentence was, in line with Mrs Strik's speech, that we still have a long way to go before we have a fully-fledged European asylum policy. It'll be there sometime, but of course it's too slow. I would like to address the more conceptual question of how the Minister intends to strike a balance between migration as an opportunity and migration as a duty or a burden. The discussion just might have been a little too much about burden, but there are also duties and opportunities. Speaking of European solidarity, does Mr Blok see any possibility of introducing a certain conditionality here too? Because, of course, agreements have been made. Can we always have a difficult word in the implementation of the distribution system when it comes to people or, more precisely, the relocation of admitted migrants, the countries that do not want to do so now? Here too, I would like to return to the problem Mr Schaap outlined: there are no migrants living in the Hungarian countryside, but that is one of the great things that Mr Orbán raises in the elections. I am afraid I provoked Mr Schaap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u78	An interruption, Mr. Schaap, because I've said before that I don't want it to be three o'clock tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u79	Just for a minute. I have asked for some understanding for those countries, because of their history, after the end of the First World War, when nationalism began to reign there, all of which was drawn along ethnic boundaries. There were huge civil wars there, even after the war, resulting in huge movements of people and so on. The fear of these countries is, therefore, enormous if they see any signs of this kind of thing. I don't talk it right with that, but I'm gonna make a little dedication in historicality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u80	Juncker's last State of the Union states that decisions must be taken at the next summit. That summit will be held in Sibiu in Romania. I went there once and you can see what ethnicity is going to bring about. There the German population of that region was actually traded by Ceausescu for Romanians in Germany, with money. That's how it was then. That's the history of those areas. Mr. Chairman. I come to a very different subject: the euro. After this, that sounds a little crazy, but all right, it's a broad field we're covering today. Can the Minister of Finance outline a perspective of concrete steps in EMU, the euro governance and the banking union? The D66 Group supports the completion of the Banking Union, which has already been deployed under the Dutch Presidency in 2016. In my group's view, it is irresponsible to be stuck somewhere halfway and pretending that the euro crisis is completely over. 'Cause that's not him. The Trinity Banking Union, European Deposit Guarantee Scheme (EDIS) and Single Resolution Fund (GAP) is extremely important, especially for our country, with a very large banking sector. I don't think I need to convince the Minister of that. But how does the Minister see that the EU has and institutionalizes a responsible level of Community capacity for action, so that we do not get back to the discussion about the Council of Ministers every time we have a cliffhanger meeting of the European Council, but can handle it on a regular basis? This also eases the pressure on the ECB to intervene. We all know how important President Draghi's "whatever it takes" speech was, but that was then. We could do that then, but that can't be repeated. Of course, Member States must continue to work on their budgetary discipline. My group would like to know more precisely from the Minister where he puts the flags on what is now a responsible risk reduction, before we take a next step. In the whole context of how we are going to do all this, my group had reservations about the approach of Minister Hoekstra to position himself without the Benelux as captain of eight northern countries or even Hanseatic countries. Doesn't that limit his negotiating capacity? I would also like to hear from the Minister what the German position is on the six points. I heard him say somewhere in the media that the Germans agree, but they're not there. Why does he expect German support and what does he base it on? Because it will ultimately be decisive. He will have also, I suppose, seen the Rome Declaration of the seven southern EU Member States, the ClubMed, of 10 January. Find the differences! I found it quite remarkable that attention was paid to the social pillar and the Gothenburg Declaration on education and social convergence. Why is it missing from the group that the minister has gathered around him? If we ever needed a vision at this pivotal point in European history, it is now. I was very anxious to hear Prime Minister Rutte's Europe speech in Berlin. The MP is now moving more and more relaxed between the greats of the earth. He also establishes and passant a long-term record of longest-sitting government leader. Would he use that stage in Berlin to announce historic steps? Would he respond to Angela Merkel's conclusion that we should now take our destiny more than ever into our own hands? Would he be wondering out loud what that statement means to our country? And what about the European Union? Would he finish in the atmosphere of "Ich bin ein Berliner," Kennedy's famous speech at that time? But that was a little too much to ask. There were good moves. He spoke, for the first time, of a community of values and for the first time also enthusiastically about issues "which can only be resolved together in the EU." Bravo, Bravo, But after that, his speech was really just about economy and enthusiasm, that we want to stick to the contribution and that the countries can spend it better than the Commission. When you read the report in the German press, as in Der Spiegel, his speech was about money. But then he would have better kept his speech in Frankfurt, the capital of the European Central Bank. Then he could have said: Ich bin ein Frankfürter! That would have been more appropriate. Anyway, the game hasn't been played yet. Because the title of his speech is still a source of hope. Not the Dutch version, which was translated as "No words but deeds," but the English original spoken speech was called "Underpromise and Overdeliver." Do it! I'd say so. A concrete test of this "doing" will be the budget of the European Union, the MFF. At the end of this debate we also received a letter from Minister Blok, in which he summarized the position of the government. That happens nuanced, careful; fortunately not "no money to the Greeks." But the kettle music on the other side of the Binnenhof sounds very different. We also visited the rapporteurs on the MFF. This is going to be a complicated negotiation and we should not conduct it in public here, but I would like to give the rulers the following. If you put yourself in the position, which I hear here and there, it is also a bit of the tenor of Mark Rutte's speech that we exclude that more will be available for the EU budget, for example, to own resources, then of course you have a card less to play in the discussion. We do not rule that out, not tactically, but also from the point of view of content. Improvements are absolutely needed for the MFF. Look at the disproportionate amount of money spent on agricultural policy; the old-fashioned agricultural policy, I would almost say. My friends across the street and in the European Parliament always say: from cows to knowledge. It should be better structured and more controllable. I still don't have any Court of Auditors statements either. Of course, that's actually not good. But there are also possibilities. There's the Monti report. I would like to hear the Minister's appreciation of this. Are there any recommendations he might be able to work with? The reason why my group does not rule out the possibility of a greater contribution of own resources or if necessary, is the added value of the European Union for the Dutch citizen in the economic, cultural and legal fields. I also mention the safety advantage. All we receive is a multiple of what we put in. That's what the British are gonna find out. So let us look primarily at what the European Union is getting us instead of putting the wrong calculation to the Dutch population, that of the net contributor. It's an old saying. It's an old saying. Madam President. In order to encourage the cabinet in the right direction, I would like to emphasise a Europe that can meet the challenges. Sometimes we have to give up on that, too. We have talked for years about international taxation in the Netherlands and the role of rulings and such. I see Secretary of State Menno Snel has really turned the switch into that. We've been criticized for that a lot. The visit of the delegation of the French Senate immediately brought this up, as did President Macron. There were matters in Dutch taxation that we guarded for a very long time but which were not justifiable. In this respect, the Secretary of State has converted the exchange and thereby also strengthens the Dutch negotiating position on other dossiers. Challenges are many, and far too much for our country alone, so we have to do things together. I mention, perhaps aboundingly, the digital economy, multinationals and their power, security and cyberspace, climate and tax avoidance, especially by Internet giants. We simply cannot solve these things on a national scale. Let's be honest about that. Nor can it be with sovereignty or renationalisation. We can't. We have to do it together. How are we supposed to do that together? Mr Knapen made that point. Should we do that as countries on a smaller committee? It has different speeds. There are so many proposals; it will prove itself. We're not ruling it out. But it must be done as far as possible in Community agreements. So let us, as I say to the rulers, express the confidence to seek this cooperation through active diplomacy. This strengthens the position of our country and the chance of achieving our European goals. So we must move forward towards a society of solidarity and cooperation on all fronts, a society that tirelessly seeks agreements and compromises and does justice to differences and unity in diversity, but which promotes joint progress on the European continent. This is a society with positive expectations, which speaks positively of European cooperation, which can offer something. So not as a Frankfurter but as a Berliner. Our mission is to connect. We can do that very well in our country and in this house. We can do the same in Europe. We can contribute to that. Our group looks forward to the answers of the rulers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u81	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u82	Mr. Chairman. Although this is in any case the first European General Reviews with this cabinet, we are again talking to the second Foreign Minister. Hopefully he will survive the coming visit to Russia politically. Of course it is also nice to see a face so familiar to us at the ministerial table. Mr. Chairman. Repairing the European roof when the weather is good seems more economical in Berlin and Paris than in The Hague. The EMU project has never been completed, and the realization that market and currency union cannot be achieved without fiscal and social union seems to have fallen there. And what does the Netherlands do? That is on the money, looking at the national interest in the short term rather than at the long term European interest, with a somewhat broader vision. Above all, we hear 'no more money for the EU budget', despite all the new challenges facing the EU. Mr Schaap spoke aptly of a grocery mentality: not a European Minister for Finance, and opposed the approach to tax avoidance. The government still seems to be based on the misunderstanding that the European interest and the national interest are opposite. The lessons from the crisis seem to have not yet fully achieved the Dutch approach. "One's own house in order"; these are the words of the government to stress that Member States must first solve their financial problems themselves. But our houses also have a common foundation with a shared responsibility in Europe. The financial crisis of ten years ago has opened up these foundations, which have not yet been restored, leading to a significant social decline in a number of countries. With mass youth unemployment on average of 25% in the EU and sometimes more than 50% in a number of Member States, we are at risk of losing generations. Millions of Europeans live more in poverty than before 2008 and confidence in the EU and its institutions has fallen significantly. Employment is rising, but the number of insecure workers is corresponding. The euro has been saved and the economy is growing and yet the average European's income has stagnated or even fallen significantly and its public services have been weakened. Large companies and shareholders are again making substantial profits and dodging taxes, often through the Netherlands, while the burden of European citizens has increased. Confidence in the euro is high, but the recovery is to a large extent dependent on the thousands of billions that the ECB has increased. The growing inequality between labour and capital is economically undesirable and ultimately politically unsustainable. If citizens do not see their interests represented in the EU, their acceptance will only decrease further. Does the government see this danger and share our view that a strong euro also requires combating unemployment and poverty and seeking an inclusive and sustainable economy in all Member States? The opposite seems to happen sooner. The strict and dubious economic fiscal rules have driven the cuts to the detriment of citizens. Can the Minister explain why the Netherlands is holding on to this one-sided view of budgetary discipline? We know by now that countries with sound public finances can still not be viable. And we know by now how important other criteria are for a sustainable and healthy economy? However, more room for the market and multinationals, cuts in social security and public sector and strict budgetary discipline are still presented as the only logical solution. The 2008 crisis led to a banking union, supervision of the financial sector, the ESM and the capital market union. But the problems haven't been solved at all. Banks are still too big to fail, debt is growing even larger, as are the economic differences between the EU. Does the government also recognise that we are far from there, that we may be halfway somewhere? And what conclusions does she draw from this? Wise proposals are enough: a binding leverage ratio for banks, significantly higher capital buffers, a firm approach to tax avoidance, proposals for minimum rates of profit tax and taxes on large tech companies. But the Netherlands says no, no and again no. The Netherlands is on the brakes. Why is that? If we want to make the EU and EMU more resilient, we should also recognise economic interdependence, organise solidarity by building solid buffers and share risks such as a Stability Fund and a European Deposit Guarantee Scheme. This could reduce the correlation between banks and public debt and thus also make currency union more stable. Such an approach also requires a more common approach in substance through a number of minimum standards. However, the government seems to be wandering around: the economic link, but not the consequences. As a result, there is also no common policy for a truly sound and sustainable EMU, as could be the case, for example, through agreements on minimum wages and fairer European taxes. Surely the main objective of EMU should be that it leads to joint and fair progress with more jobs and security in Europe, or does the government see it differently? I assume that the government is also trying to prevent European citizens from paying for the excesses of the financial system. How does it intend to obtain the necessary control over the financial markets without further action? Germany and France do recognise the momentum to strengthen EMU construction. Where the Netherlands is lagging behind, these countries see a flight ahead as the only solution to overcome new crises. Doesn't the cabinet fear that the Netherlands will be out of play with its attitude? Will the government persist in seeking coalitions with the small northern countries to prevent further integration, keep budgets low and maintain sovereignty as much as possible? Or would it perhaps want to work constructively with co-founders Germany and France on a more social, fiscal and economic monetary union? I am pleased to hear three of the four coalition groups express their enthusiasm for this. Well, that's a good thing to think about. The Netherlands will be hit hard by the Brexit, the housing market is already strained and our private debt is one of the largest in Europe. We too benefit more from insurance. I would say that, as a relatively small Member State, we also benefit more from a more Community approach, as Mr Backer said just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u83	I fully share Mr Strik's analysis of what she calls the growing inequality between labour and capital in Europe, the social consequences of the one-sided emphasis on austerity policies and so on in all kinds of countries in Europe. Now, with reference to the plans of France and Germany, it says that these countries are moving forward with regard to the deepening and further development and development of economic monetary union. That seems to suggest that this would address these social problems. I would like to clarify that. My analysis would be that the euro, at least as it has been designed, has only contributed to this growing inequality between countries and also within countries and to increasing poverty in countries such as Greece and so on. Where is Macron's plans to solve the problems identified by Mrs Strik?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u84	Thanks for the question. It refers a little bit to the debate we just had. It is good to point out that we are on a two-track policy. On the one hand, we see the need for greater risk sharing and strengthening economic cooperation, but we do not want to continue on the current path alone. That is why I have stressed that we have to take other criteria to look at budgets, to settle them. Not only should we encourage countries to make more savings and reduce the public sector and so on, but we should really look at what is needed to ensure that all Member States take a more social path and that there is greater equality and prosperity in those countries. This means not only going blindly after these two countries, but also looking very critically at the budgetary mechanisms and the assessment. That is why I have advocated that we should also make more agreements on social policy, so we should agree that minimum wages should be set, although this does not mean that they should be harmonised everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u85	I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs Strik's thinking, but my question was where she sees it in Macron's plans, for example when it comes to deepening EMU, the other criteria and the social dimension. Frankly, I have not seen much of that. Or does she say that we should not stop these plans so much as strengthen them in that direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u86	Exactly. We say stepping back is not an option. We must move forward. We need to strengthen this structure, but we also need to amend it by ensuring that there is more substance and social direction in the Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u87	Finally, very briefly. I follow that well, but what if that does not work, that you do not get the majority for it, that the cabinet does not listen to you, that other Member States choose a different path and that EMU is then deepened. Then what consequences do you draw from that? To be honest, the social dimension has been high on the left-wing agenda for 20 years, but we have not yet seen it. Then what's the alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u88	We reason from the ideal as we believe that Europe should look like. That's why we like to hook up here. We do see the benefits of the plans to think more about risk sharing and not just every country for itself. In any case, we are in favour of this. Furthermore, we do not necessarily assume that we will have no influence at all on the development of these plans. For this, we believe it is important that there should be a strong European Parliament with parties who insist on its importance and who are going to influence it. The European Commission is putting forward proposals for the European Stability Mechanism and the Fiscal Pact into European legislation. We support that proposal, but in doing so, the financial emergency aid and reform programmes should be established under democratic control and not simply copied. This will allow a critical review of the unilateral budgetary rules. In fact, that is the answer to Mr Van Apeldoorn's question. Financial support in exchange for reforms can be effective, but reforms that lead to structural solutions to socio-economic problems. I'd like a response from the government. Mr. Chairman. Our financial and economic situation is, of course, also dependent on developments in other parts of the world. This applies to many subjects. Climate, stability, persistent conflicts, poverty and inequality, but also the effects of globalisation and technological developments mean that the EU cannot hide behind the dikes. For a long time, the US played the role of mediator and initiator, but now the country is mainly contributing to damaging processes rather than solutions. Mr Knapen is right. The EU is characterised by soft powers, but as far as we are concerned, this is not necessarily powerless. We're gonna have to be willing to use those soft powers. Take, for example, the degrading war in Syria, where the Security Council is stuck by the position of Russia and China in particular. The EU is the largest donor for aid to those affected by the war in Syria, but does not play a key role in resolving the conflict. Wouldn't this be the moment to strengthen our role? Nor does the Israeli Government's aggression towards the Palestinian people lead to appropriate responses to the global platform. The impasse in the Middle East conflict is only getting deeper. Is there not a need for stronger EU involvement here too? EU foreign policy is often undermined by different national priorities and agendas. Wouldn't it be better to opt for more effectiveness by speaking with one mouth more often? With a more harmonised foreign policy, we may lose some freedom here and there, but we are gaining strength. If this is not possible with 27 Member States, then at least with enhanced cooperation with the countries that want it. In fact, I am somewhat in agreement with what Mr Knapen had to say. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The Europe that resurrected from the ashes of the Second World War knew that it needed to work together to stop fighting each other. Cooperation is still the best recipe for instability. However, there are still many unstable regions on the edges of Europe, which do indeed affect our stability. Think of Ukraine and Russia, the Middle East and Libya. But I am thinking in particular of the Western Balkans, where there has been a winking prospect since the Balkans war, and still is, far from it. So far, the countries are defenseless against bad influences and disinformation from outside. Further slipping is lurking. The countries face high unemployment, persistent corruption and nepotism, and still have ethnic tensions. Does the Minister recognise the mutual interest of leading them to democratic and prosperous constitutional states? Now it seems as if we only have two options: financial support or accession. They are far from meeting the criteria for accession, but is it not very important that we support them more actively in order to get to that stage? The words of Mr Schaap have been taken from my heart in this respect. Is EU support at present sufficient in the eyes of the Minister, and what commitment is he willing to make to ensure that these countries develop in the right direction? Mr. Chairman. The cooperation we enter into with our neighbouring countries is, as it seems, increasingly one-sidedly motivated by self-interest, sometimes losing sight of long-term effects, values and equivalence. Take migration. My group strongly supports an integrated approach in foreign policy: bringing together different objectives in coherent policies. However, this integrated approach of the EU only brings the migration target to the summit. Other policy objectives will be used for this, even if they are at the expense of their own objectives. For example, the EU sees migration as a top priority in the successor to the Cotonou Agreements, while the objectives of Cotonou are: acceleration of economic and social development, peace and security, and human rights. What does this EU strategy mean for sustainable reforms and developments in those countries? Does the government have any regard for the counterproductive effects of such a one-sided approach? In ECOWAS, for example, the European agenda of border surveillance is increasingly leading to a standstill in the free movement of persons there, while the countries are largely dependent on regional cooperation. Prioritising our interests in border control in EU foreign policy will not go without undermining the original objectives. I'd like a response from the Minister. The European Neighbourhood Policy, which aims to promote human rights and constitutional developments in neighbouring countries, also shows this one-sided prioritisation. At the top of our list are strengthening their border controls, stopping migrants and taking over undocumented migrants and even refugees, even if those countries do not have a proper protection system for asylum seekers and refugees, and even if the human rights of migrants and refugees are blatantly violated, with support for our funds. I am thinking of Syrian refugees who are no longer able to leave their country and are even shot to death by Turkish border guards. I am thinking of the refugees who are still stuck on the Greek islands, for a year and a half, in bad conditions. I am thinking of migrants intercepted in Libyan waters and returned to detention centres under inhuman conditions. The coalition agreement states that the EU is also a community of values. How much do we attach to our fundamental rights in our foreign policy? Does the Minister think that cooperation in the area of migration might not be possible without human rights violations? Does he think that's some sort of collateral damage? I would find that extremely cynical. As far as our group is concerned, therefore, cooperation on border controls can only be achieved at a certain level of protection in the third country, and we will not have to shy away from suspending cooperation if it falls short. How does the government view that? Why are we paying the Libyan border guard, which puts migrants at great risk of torture, malnutrition and slavery? Are we not partly responsible for these human rights violations through agreements and financial support? I'd like a response to that. The EU has also contributed to evacuations of migrants from Libya to Niger. From there, the refugees would be transferred to the EU Member States. However, these evacuations have already been stopped, because the Member States do not cooperate at all in this takeover. As a result, detention centres in Libya are again full. De facto, therefore, human rights violations are still the order of the day. I would like a response from the government on how it sees the role and responsibility of the EU and, therefore, of our government in this regard. Mr. Chairman. Let us also look at the state of the rule of law in our Member States. Here we have seen for years the worrying trend in some countries that major reforms are driving them further away from a democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u89	Mrs Strik just mentioned that people were being transferred from Libya to Niger. There are also a lot of people from Niger who are trying to cross the border. But my question is: what do people flee Niger from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u90	These are not people who come from Niger, they are all kinds of people from different countries. They were in Libya and have been evacuated to a refugee camp in Niger, where UNHCR assesses whether they are eligible for refugee recognition. These refugees would be transferred to the EU Member States. That was the agreement made between the EU and UNHCR. The practice now is that people from different countries have been recognised as refugees, but that no one from Europe wants to take people in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u91	Nevertheless, I would like to stick to my question about people who come from Niger, who are also in that flow of migrants. Again my question: what are the people from Niger fleeing from? That is not clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u92	I don't know all the reasons people run. What I do know, and what I also think is very important, is that there is a system somewhere where people can apply for asylum. Then it is assessed whether people are entitled to protection or not, and whether they need it. It is assessed whether the reason why they have fled indeed leads to the need for protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u93	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u94	Well, I guess I'll just fill it out for Mrs. Strik, because Mrs. Strik can't say it herself: there's no reason for people from Niger to run. But they do qualify for your system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u95	The latter is simply not the case, because it is the UNHCR that assesses the asylum applications. Again, it is not so much about people who come from Niger themselves, but about the refugee camps that have been set up there. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the rule of law in Europe. It is right and proper that Commissioner Timmermans is putting a lot of energy into trying to reverse this trend in Poland and Hungary. Last Sunday's election results show that this will continue to be necessary in the coming years, but the efforts also show that the EU has no control over what is happening there. Precisely regimes with a dedain for the EU, and especially for the Commission, will have to be addressed by the Heads of State or Government of the Member States. This was also the idea of the rule of law mechanism, but I ask the Minister: is this really happening? Or do we shift the responsibility too much to the Commission if it becomes too sensitive, because perhaps we prefer to stay friends ourselves or not to face criticism ourselves? I would like an honest answer and a vision of how we can ensure an equal level of rule of law. To what extent do Member States really dare to take each other's measures? The Minister says he doesn't feel much for the AIV proposal for more peer review, but then what? How could the level of rule of law function as a criterion in the different policy areas? What is the government's commitment to linking this issue to the Multiannual Financial Framework? Mr. Chairman. We have a very important rule of law mechanism, namely the European Court of Human Rights. A unique system, which was rightly awarded the Four Freedoms Award not so long ago, here in the Netherlands. Despite an absurdly low budget and many opposing countries, the Court is crucially important for millions of Europeans. For citizens in repressive regimes it is sometimes even the only hope in scared days. It is therefore very important that we support the Court in words and deed, recognise its independence unequivocally and give absolute priority to compliance with the judgments. If countries with a reasonably good legal system start to complain about these principles, they de facto feed the arguments of repressive regimes not to have to acknowledge the authority of the ECHR. The Copenhagen Declaration of 5 February was therefore a real act of irresponsibility. The government writes to us that the massive criticism, including from the Netherlands, has led to a drastic adjustment. Of course, that is a relief for my group, but it is talking a little uncomfortable because of the lack of knowledge of that new statement. The Minister has this knowledge. I wonder why we cannot see the latter concept ourselves. That is not only easier to talk about, but it is also appropriate if this declaration is to be adopted on behalf of the Netherlands at the end of the week. The Minister stands for independence, which is a great asset, but does agree with the importance of a political dialogue between the Contracting States and the Court. Why should the legal dialogue between national courts and the ECHR, and interventions by third parties in proceedings, not suffice? Would the Minister also consider it logical, for example, if the President of the Supreme Court should join the Council of Ministers to discuss the case law of the Supreme Court? My group is pleased that the Minister supports the position of the previous cabinet and leaves the definition of margin of appreciation to the Court in individual cases, but I must say that I do not understand why this principle should be reiterated in a statement even after it has been included in the preamble. What does this send out to the Member States of the Council of Europe? Is that really necessary? A much bigger problem is financial and capacity deficits. The entry into force of Protocol No. 16 will only contribute further to this. What is the government's commitment to this? The Brussels Declaration called for voluntary additional contributions by Member States. What's that gotten you so far? Shouldn't something new about this be included in the statement, and then a little less uncommittal? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. Within the EU, too, it has been possible to follow legislative procedures for the acceptance of such legislation in society, and ultimately for its quality. The Dutch Government has committed itself to greater transparency in the legislative process, but does not say that it can do much anymore at the moment. This is an unsatisfactory situation, given the judgments of the Court of Justice, the pressing appeal of a majority of national parliaments and a very critical report by the European Ombudsman. This raises the question of whether it is only a matter of desirability to publish Council documents on legislation more often, or whether the Eurowob and its interpretation in the Court actually oblige the Council to do so. I would like to hear the government's opinion on this, and whether it believes that the current practice, in which Council documents are in principle not made public, is in accordance with Union law. Mr. Chairman. We hope for answers that reflect a long-term vision of Europe and a realization that the European and Dutch interests coincide to a large extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u97	Thank you, Mr President. In these European considerations, we, my group and others, seem to feel the need to determine where the European Union stands after a crisis decade. It is also necessary to establish what the Netherlands is opposed to a European debate filled with new ambitions. The tide has turned again. Since 2008, it has been regularly feared or declared that the single currency would not hold, that northern and southern Europe would not go together, that Greece would have to leave the Union or that more countries would follow the British example after the Brexit. It all didn't come true. And although the major issues have not disappeared or been resolved in all respects, this has also become clear: European solidarity has been shown and the ability in difficult situations to take decisions that hold Europe, the Union, together. And there is enough political will to continue the European Union as a link between European states. The Member States see its importance and want to relate to it. My group believes that this is a gain. However, the Union has not emerged from the crisis unchanged in its functioning. In the financial field, the euro area is richer in a number of instruments to keep the euro stable and Europe shockproof. We can also see that the European Council has clearly demonstrated its authority, many times under the leadership of Chancellor Merkel. There have been more summits than ever, and the European Council is showing an executive authority that is increasingly expressing its views on all kinds of European bottlenecks. The European Council also wants to deliver, as shown by President Donald Tusk's Leader's Agenda. This agenda is intended to achieve results and restore the faith of the citizen in Europe. Yes, and then the European Commission cannot lag behind in the miraculous competition between the Commission and the Council. In fact, in the last year, President Juncker has unfolded his scenarios in order to continue to show initiative from the Commission. As far as he is concerned, we are heading for a further development of the European Commission as the heart of a more federal Europe. My party appreciates European cooperation, but does not want it to be accompanied by centralist federalism or a naturally proposed transfer of sovereignty to Brussels. The importance and need of supranational solutions must always be critically weighed. The EU is a partnership of Member States, but it is not set up and lacks the legitimacy to adopt more and more "sui generis." Let it really be the case that what is good for Europe is being tested in the Member States and by the citizens. In order to do so, Member States must retain full competence over national issues and not be sucked into great ideals with sometimes hegemonistic ambitions. In all reflection on the future of Europe, citizens must be heard and seen and national parliaments must be in a position to test European policies. As far as we are concerned, European democracy must start to live, more and more, in national parliaments. Let them become the arena of European politics. The role of these parliaments was initially not a major consideration in the Union's draft, since Lisbon. And we are now actively working to give more substance to this. That's fascinating and important. Because of this essential role of national parliaments, we are also talking about 'transparency' of European decision-making. And there is still the need to improve. Mr Strik has, of course, also underlined this with her contribution. I share that perspective. At the request of the European Council, we are also going to hold a public consultation on the way to next year's European elections. My group would like to ask citizens what the supervisory role of national parliaments should be in relation to that of the European Parliament. The debate on transparency is not just about what information the parliament has and whether it is complete or not, but ultimately about influence and hence about control over European decision-making, which will sooner or later be transposed into national law. In the meantime, I think it is sufficiently clear that the European citizen does not want and is not served by having him and without him anywhere in Europe. As far as the First Chamber is concerned, in the survey on the European method of operation of this Chamber, I did not fill in so long ago an extra day, spent on European legislation, here in this house to find a good idea. Mr. Chairman. A debate on the democratic nature of European decision-making certainly also affects the larger plans that are now on the table from all sides. France and Germany want a new Élysée treaty, fifty years after the first between Adenauer and De Gaulle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u98	Chairman? Are the buttons working? Mr Kuiper talks about that extra day that was discussed in the Temporary Committee on the Working Environment of the First Chamber. He didn't make it. I think it must have been a good reason, perhaps a time span. That could be it. Wouldn't there be another reason? At least he'd play for me. That extra day would actually be an internal review of documents. But why do we now have the international level or the European level? This is to allow 27 Member States to speak with each other at European level through the European Parliament, in the Councils or in the committees, and to allow them to exchange all that is at stake. I am narrowing it down to one day, but there is therefore an inconsistency in renationalising legislation and the need to consult at European level. In practice, I do not see us getting on with the farmer and consulting with others. We're doing it with the COSAC, but that's a very difficult process. How do you see that in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u99	I also see an increasing effort in the work of this Chamber to get a grip on what is being done by our own government in all kinds of negotiations in Councils and Councils in Brussels. The whole debate on transparency is, of course, closely linked to that. The question of when we can influence decision-making in Brussels through our government, i.e. the line through parliament and government, is also important. We are trying to develop it further. I also believe that it would require an extra effort from a Chamber like this, but it also requires an extra effort from our House of Representatives, because we were designed in the nineteenth century, originally to focus on national legislation. So we must do something to really shape this European dimension in our parliamentary work. That is why I would like to see an extra day spent on this to concentrate on all those things that are coming towards us from Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u100	Could it also be in the views of Mr Kuiper and his group that, thanks to a redeployment of tasks in Europe, as we have also had at national level between municipalities and The Hague, there is a time when there is no longer a meeting here on a number of parts and there is no longer a cramped attempt to debate a scale that no longer belongs here, but at a different level? Would that be a thought that still...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u101	I realize that I have not yet answered part of your question. It is, of course, true: we also have a European Parliament. But we also note with each other that political life and the political debate in the European Parliament are not really flourishing either, and that the European Parliament often feels it is an ally of the Commission to play its own role, let us say, while the political authority is always lacking. That is what is happening in the national parliaments and in the national governments that meet in the Council. If the Council is important to exercise the political authority that we also need to take decisions in Europe, why not strengthen that line? That's my consistent reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u102	I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u103	I think Mr Kuiper is making a further deepening of today's debate, because of course we are seeing several schools here. One of them is indeed to do it through the Council, whether or not to disqualify the Commission in its mandate and powers and whether or not to go for keeping the European Parliament small or to strengthen the question of legitimacy. So Mr Kuiper really chooses the route of national parliaments and the Council and does not really choose the rest, because otherwise he will continue to skip. Do you think he'd like to go through with that again? What are we doing with a Commission and a Parliament in that regard? You think we should stop doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u104	I shall come back to this further in the course of my speech, but this is true. So that is the consequence I am trying to think through for this debate today, because it is the line of at least Macron and Juncker to strengthen the European Parliament, which is also reflected in the proposals. What will it do to strengthen the European Parliament if the Commission continues to play its role? In principle, therefore, as much non-political as possible, but with an own right of initiative to initiate legislation in Europe but at the same time lacking a political authority that does exist in the Council. You're right. I'm gonna put the other line here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u105	Appreciate it. In developing this line, however, I would point out that an enormous amount of the legislation we are dealing with here is European-inspired. That is not from the Council, it is from the Commission. I note that this discussion suffers from the fact that there is a particular perception of what this Commission is about. Then we are going to make this small by doing it all through the Council, while you risk ignoring the essential analysis that we have been fed by the European Union for decades, read also the European Commission, in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u106	I can see that the Commission now has the initiative. At the same time, it is not de facto outside the Council either. What we are dealing with here is certainly not outside the Council. Anyway, I'll get back to you later. I have a little more to say about it myself, and that will come shortly, with your permission, Mr President. In my speech, I noted that Élysée Treaty, which is now being published, was also included in the German Government's declaration which France and Germany would like to work on together and to draw up European proposals and plans through that treaty. Macron said he wanted to build a sovereign, united and democratic Europe, as he said in September in his important Sorbonne speech. Anyone who puts these proposals from Macron in addition to those from the German coalition agreement that was recently concluded will notice that Macron has been listened to in Berlin. Those Thoughtful sind frei. The new Élysée Treaty is given concrete content, namely in a number of points, of which I would like to mention a few. Germany and France want to coordinate their economies; coordination is the word in the German coalition agreement. Together they also want to be Europe's innovation engine. Macron wants a European tax policy and Germany too, for the time being for companies. Macron wants a European intervention force at the top of the military coordination and cooperation already in place in the EU. Merkel wants that, too. Macron wants to strengthen the European Parliament and that is also stated in the German government agreement. The other members of the European Union will therefore be confronted in the coming years with the driving force of German-French cooperation, as Mr Knapen pointed out. As far as France is concerned, there is even more on the agenda, such as a European Minister of Finance with its own budget powers, enlargement of the euro area and a European border police. I would also like to mention a more extensive European Public Prosecutor's Office; the debate on this has not yet been completed, but we know that there are proposals to add the mandate for the fight against international organised crime. Macron also wants the leading group of European countries to be formed. Well, that's also in other proposals. He also wants more exchange in strengthened European higher education and so on. In France they will love it when their president announces such things, but in the Netherlands the tone of the debate is usually different and undoubtedly somewhat more reluctant on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u107	Macron has indeed linked the word'sovereignty' to Europe, but the list given by Mr Kuiper today still sounds to me like'more of the same' rather than 'now radically different'. So here the word is used but the suggestion of "others" that radiate the word, I do not find in the list that Germany strongly supports.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u108	It is striking that Macron indeed puts the word "sovereignty" first here. I read and understand that it really means 'European sovereignty', that is to say a further declaration of the European Union without compromising the sovereignty of individual Member States. I think you can keep such a reasoning easier if you are a big country like France and Germany, than if you are a smaller country, because in the end it will mean that much is incorporated into what France already wants, for example in the military field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u109	But strengthening the institutions as they now work, giving them more room for manoeuvre and giving them some broader tasks is still more of the same. So I don't think that's a revolution in sovereignty. It remains with the individual Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u110	Yes, that will eventually be the case in Macron's perception, but the future will have to learn how he will explain what he means by "European sovereignty" in subsequent meetings and fora.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u111	Perhaps I can help the debate on the s-word, sovereignty, a little bit further. Those who listen to and watch President Macron's speech must take an hour and a half, but it is interesting to note that he is based on a completely different concept. He says that, given the scale of the problems, French sovereignty can only be achieved in Europe. That's how he looks at sovereignty. That is a very different idea from the one put forward by Mr Kuiper. In any case, I would like to pass this on for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u112	Yeah, I read that too. I am also trying to understand it, in the sense that French sovereignty will express itself in Europe. Or how did you say it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u113	It's manifesting in Europe. His analysis is that the real development of the French can only take place on that scale. He says: that is the real sovereignty in the modern world for France. You could look at it like that. We are, of course, going straight into the context of French domination and the French nuclear weapon, but it is a very fundamental idea. I have to go back to the Gaullist doctrine, in which the French did not even want to defend the German plain with the nuclear weapon. That was the official doctrine. They weren't part of the joint command. That was the idea of French sovereignty. This is the one now. So something else has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u114	Thank you for this debate. I read a certain French hegemony in it very quickly. But there is also another way of reading, and I understand that, namely that countries share their sovereignty in order to solve certain problems together, so that sovereignty can also extend over Europe. That is close to what it really is, as I admit to Mr Schaap. Countries do not give up their sovereignty as a matter of priority, but use it together to establish political authority to tackle European problems. Well, that might be a familiar thought. Mr. Chairman. I'm going on. On the plans of the German and French partners in Europe, as I just outlined them, I would like to hear a broader consideration from our Foreign Minister. Perhaps it would be nice if he were to take part in this debate, which is already taking place in this Chamber. What does the Cabinet think? We see that our Prime Minister is active in forging coalitions, partly as a counterweight to the Élysée partners. Our finance minister has also been on the road. But what is the purpose of this? What course is the Netherlands heading for? Can this course, which clearly is or seems to be different from Macron's, actually succeed? What significance does the wider reflection on Juncker's scenarios have in this context, I ask the Foreign Minister? Those scenarios seem a little lost in the field. Or am I wrong? Perhaps they should participate in the social consultation that will take place in the next six months. Unfortunately Juncker has abandoned his impartiality by adding a sixth scenario, namely his own scenario. As a result, the conversation about the remaining five seems to have become superfluous. What exactly are we supposed to do with it? Mr. Chairman. A few days ago, our Chamber received a letter announcing the public consultation and asking whether this Chamber would also help to shape it. We haven't talked about that here yet. That consultation will only last six months. It should start now and be completed in the autumn. Isn't that a little short? My first question to the Minister is what form the cabinet itself takes if there is a need for a social consultation on the future of Europe. And what exactly is asked of the Chambers? Should each party hold a debate within its own ranks, including in the context of the preparation of an electoral programme for the European elections? Then how is the proceeds of this consultation determined at a certain point in time? I'd like to hear about that, too. I think we can talk about that later. In any case, my group considers it useful to liven up the debate on Europe. It seems to us that the purpose of this consultation is to involve citizens. And that's good. I would like to make three suggestions on topics for this social consultation. They come from the line of my speech so far. Firstly, let citizens talk about the Europe they want. If we listen to Juncker or Macron, a Europe that no longer wants to be a soft power appears, but a player with ambitions on the world stage. Others stress that Europe must be no more than the sum of the Member States and that political life in Europe must be concentrated in national communities. This leads to the dimensions of values, currency and market. Let people say what political form they think is best suited to this. The European Union is not a state, but it is a state. How many more should that be? How much European politics does the citizen really want? Then I come to the second theme. In the years that lie behind, we see not only a European Commission that would like to be more political, but also a European Council that has actually become that. The Treaty states that the Council defines the 'general political guidelines'. That is the role of the Council. The Council wants to do the same. He has become more self-conscious in the many crisis talks. There was a lot of chefsache. The Commission is now even being replaced by the Council. For example, the Council is blocking the election of the President of the European Commission. He wants to keep naming them himself. In other words, European politics is being made more and more by an increasingly frequent Council meeting. That is the actual development. Should this development, in which the Council becomes the centre of European policy, not lead to a different institutional arrangement? That's what we were just talking about, and here's the question. Is it therefore time to reflect on the right of initiative to legislation? Where's that supposed to be? I also see in the movement that Juncker has made by suggesting that the President of the Commission is at the same time the President of the Council an attempt to get things together; to connect the legislative authority that lies with the Commission and the executive that lies with the Council. These seem like good ingredients for a conversation. The third issue: if the Council becomes more important because it can assert political authority which apparently cannot be exercised elsewhere, then the influence of national parliaments can also become more important. That's what we're looking for. The influence of national parliaments applies to the own government that makes politics in the Council. National parliaments will become more vigilant, even when it comes to national policy autonomy and, of course, in the development of European policies. The turnout at European elections is low. Hence the question of how citizens feel about strengthening the role of national parliaments in the European context. Mr. Chairman. My party has said in its election programme on the European Union that it is time for a reset. If we look at the plans that are put forward everywhere, such a reset also seems to many others not a bad idea. According to Luuk van Middelaar, the construction plans for a European "Cathedral" are quite mixed up. European cooperation is a good idea, but it does not need to lead to centralist power building which, in today's practice, amounts to a lot of European bureaucracy. How else is that possible? In my party, it has been suggested that the European Union should be a decentralised idea federation. It favours a "living subsidiarity" that keeps responsibilities close to citizens and makes them participate fully in the political life of nearby communities. This fits with free, responsible and self-employed people who handle their own affairs in their own homes. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a few words on a number of other issues, and I shall conclude. My group also regrets Britain's exit from the European Union. In England, the Netherlands found a political ally and counterweight against the great powers on the European continent. It would be desirable for this tide to return, but that will be an illusion, I fear. I ask the Minister what the Brexit means for European defence cooperation and cooperation in NATO. We know a hard Brexit isn't in our best interest. The Netherlands wants to maintain good trade relations. Can the Minister say something about the negotiations and the bilateral relationship between the Netherlands and Great Britain and how they will develop according to his understanding? We support the cabinet when it comes to the European budget. We wonder what counterweight the coalition of Member States under the leadership of the Netherlands can play in this. As far as financial stability in Europe is concerned, my group agrees with the cabinet that Member States must comply with their commitments and that the real reforms begin there. Otherwise, there can be no confidence in any common approach. As far as our group is concerned, a European Minister for Finance is not a remedy against what Member States themselves should do. Let the debate on the future financial architecture of Europe continue to be linked to the institutional discussions, as mentioned above. On 24 April there will be a further discussion in this house with the Minister of Finance. Our colleague, Ester, will then discuss these issues further. Mr. Chairman. Some of these issues I have touched on are also reflected in the European Work Programme. The fact that these are now on our plenary agenda underlines the increased importance of parliamentary scrutiny of European policies. This includes the fact that national parliaments are actually in a position to play their control and opposition role. I have devoted my contribution to these general European reflections today in order to underline that role once again and in the hope that it will continue to grow as an exponent of European democracy in a new, more appropriate form. I look forward to the reflections of the cabinet and also to the answers to the questions raised by my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Kuiper. I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u116	Mr. Chairman. "I'm an unadulterated European." That's what Jan Zielonka wrote in his book entitled Is the EU doomed? Zielonka has a Dutch passport, works at a British university, lives in Italy and teaches in Wroclaw, Warsaw, Groningen, Leiden and Florence, grew up behind the Iron Curtain and now dreams of a Europe without borders. Not someone who fits in with nationalism or populism, but someone who is convinced that the EU has not turned out to be a binder, but a spatter. A parliamentary representation of 28 different nationalities, with historically deeply rooted institutional, legal, political, economic and cultural differences, appears to be a difficult model. The same applies to a single currency for countries with a totally different economic temperament and rhythm. Perhaps we have stepped too eagerly into the greatest monetary experiment in history, not knowing that any disappointment or failure would lead us to put our heads even further into a centralist noose. The EU is a maze without emergency exits and the euro is a currency you can't get rid of once you have introduced it. This is briefly what citizens in the Netherlands and other European countries are told. Last year André Szász, former director of De Nederlandsche Bank, in charge of international policy, already in the 1990s saw with his eyes how the monetary union, which he helped to prepare, has become a game of political compromises. After the introduction of the euro, Szász said: "We never meant it that way." He stressed that political motives and not economic considerations were decisive in the merger of coins in Europe. A monetary union does not require a single currency. Why the euro? Szász was very clear about why this is not necessary: "If you unbreakably link the exchange rates and make the coins completely freely exchangeable, then that implies a common monetary policy and in principle you can have different currencies." "With that common currency, we gave up the right of self-determination over our money without noticeable unrest. Sneakingly, there is a fate community in Europe whose consequences are yet to be seen. But it doesn't want to come to a public debate about this silent revolution." These words by Szász are becoming more and more true. It is more than clear that a single currency is unsustainable for all Member States. Can the Minister of Finance indicate how he is looking at this analysis of Szász with his knowledge of the present situation? Does the Minister now share the view that we should be open to alternatives to a single currency? Is there a scenario for the moment the euro shines, to speak with Angela Merkel? Mr. Chairman. If European banking supervision is insufficient, then the next step is a centralised banking policy with a European deposit guarantee scheme that cannot be shy of the guarantees we used to in the Netherlands. First a European army and then the forced introduction of a European foreign policy, step by step towards more and more transfer of our sovereignty, without even amending the Constitution, without having had a serious debate in Parliament. As far as my group is concerned, Mr President, that is the issue that we cannot look away from any longer. One would almost think that the era that preceded the euro was not so crazy, when we had our national currency alongside the euro as a unit of account and therefore also a clear and democratic monetary policy. What would be against returning to that dual system of a euro as a common unit of account alongside national currencies? Can the Minister of Finance state what problems and opportunities there are to return to that system? I'd like a response. How, Mr President, can an EU official be promoted to Secretary-General of the European Commission by magic, one might wonder, in the absence of a democratic, transparent procedure. Well, the recipe is simple: every European Commissioner gets a fancy waiting fee for five years on departure, an office in Brussels, a car with driver and two assistants. Selmayr has made this commitment to ensure his appointment, with which he will be in charge of 30,000 employees; he only has to answer to President Juncker. That's bad blood. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister how he assesses the EU's appointment policy, in particular in this case, and whether the cabinet can also appreciate the extent to which the European Parliament has been involved in this appointment. Mr. Chairman. This year is an important year for the common agricultural policy. Once every six years, the scheme is reviewed and adapted. The next review will be in 2019, but all major consultations will take place this year. Agriculture alone has not been given particular priority, not in the State of the Union, not in the cabinet juice of the Commission's work programme, not in the programme itself and not in European climate policy. In the 2016 General European Considerations in this Chamber, the word "agriculture" fell only nine times, seven of which from my party. Now Mr Backer has mentioned it once; I have to admit that. This broad disregard is remarkable when we consider that the common agricultural policy is the largest separate item in the European budget. More than a third of the EU budget is spent on agriculture. What, I ask the Finance Minister, could be the reason why such a large item of the European budget is virtually ignored? The largest polluters in the Dutch countryside, companies that emit huge amounts of ammonia, particulate matter and methane, receive the most European agricultural subsidies, according to a study by De Groene Amsterdammer last week. A quarter of the 49 most polluting cattle, pig and chicken farms registered in Europe in the Netherlands receive substantial agricultural subsidies from the EU. In other Member States, the picture is exactly the same as in the Netherlands: large polluters everywhere receive significant agricultural subsidies. Grants shall not be based on environmental performance. The European Commission does not have enough information to check whether farms comply with the environmental rules and has not given this priority. The amount of the subsidy shall be determined only on the basis of the quantity of land held by a farmer. There are no criteria; they can be extended. And expanding stables does not rhyme with this cabinet's ambition to emit more than half less CO in Europe by 2030. The Dutch livestock would have to shrink considerably in order to meet the Paris climate targets, the Council proposed the living environment and infrastructure last week. If Dutch livestock farming continues on the current track, this industry will exceed the total permitted greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. Only Dutch livestock farming currently accounts for 18 megatons of CO per year, while in 32 years the Netherlands will be able to emit another 10 megatons of CO in total. This raises the question of how the cabinet will take the lead in the European Union to increase the European climate target of 49% reduction by 2030 to 55%. That's where it shows ambition. But is it possible for this cabinet to discuss the reduction of livestock in order to achieve this goal in a European context? That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. Pieter van Geel, chairman of one of the climate tables, mentioned as Secretary of State for Environmental Meat in 2007 "the most environmentally-unfriendly part of our food package." Why is that subject not on the food table of which he is chairman? Why, apparently, is there a taboo on the reduction of animal proteins, where the greatest climate gains can be achieved in our European agreements? I'd like a response. Agricultural subsidies mainly came from commercial companies, producer organisations and supermarkets. They are also used to promote environmentally friendly and die-ron-friendly products, to stimulate bulk production, to distribute school milk and to store meat on a large scale. Partly because of the largest expenditure item in Europe, billions of animals are suffering in the livestock industry, ruining agricultural poison and fertilising our environment, water is seriously contaminated and we are facing the greatest biodiversity crisis in history. The future requires a radical change of course. The future of food and farming is a sustainable future with a shrinkage of livestock, a conversion to a plant-based diet, sustainable production systems and without agricultural subsidies. I expect the cabinet to have a serious, comprehensive and constructive view of this existential problem, which is not just on the board of the Minister for Agriculture, but on the board of all of us. Food supply should be a structural component of European agricultural policy, climate policy, security policy and migration policy. How does the Secretary of State view this? Mr. Chairman. Agricultural subsidies are spent on the most remarkable things, for example to breed bulls used in bullfighting. In 2013, the House of Representatives adopted a motion from the Party for Animals to focus on stopping subsidies to bullfighting in Europe. In 2015, the European Parliament also expressed its opposition to this form of subsidy, but it is still happening. The European Commission treats the European Parliament as if it were a toothless tiger. What has the Netherlands done to finally comply with this broad living desire? Can the Minister promise to insist on the implementation of the proposals? I'd like a response. I'm considering a motion on this point. Mr President, in summary. We cannot accept a single currency or a common agricultural policy. The two main pillars of the EU are cracking in their joints. I look forward to answering our questions on this subject with interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u117	Thank you, Mrs Theunissen. I give the floor to Mr Diederik van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I like to give my speech a motto of the well-known philosopher Ad Verbrugge from his older, but still sparkling Time of unease. I quote: 'As once the communist bureaucrat legitimized his own position by appealing to his competent devotion to the state of salvation as the goal he wanted to achieve as effectively as possible, many European bureaucrats legitimize themselves with the argument that they are the ones who, on the basis of their expertise and dedication to Europe, have the right to lead the ignorant and often unwilling masses in the process of unification, which must take place according to the inevitable logic of history.' So much for Verbrugge. Mr. Chairman. A decisive political debate on the future of Europe is more necessary than ever. On the one hand, there is a passionate plea for a federal EU, on the other hand, there are voices for the break-up of the EU or a new one. The SGP advocates a third path, that of a radically reformed EU that remains in line with its proverbial spirit. That requires far-reaching choices. For stable European cooperation in the longer term, the EU must primarily put its house in order. The creed must remain: working together where necessary, not where it can be done. In concrete terms, this means first of all that the EU must continue to do justice to the individuality and sovereignty of the Member States. So no EU army, no EU taxes, no EU finance minister, etc. Unfortunately, we see that the EU, encouraged by the Commission's discussion papers, is taking steps towards a federal union. More and more policy areas are involved, such as education, the social domain or criminal law. That's what we talked about here last week. The SGP does not consider this to be desirable and illegal. It is crucial that the EU learns to make a step in the right direction. Unity is good to the outside world, but unity sausage is devastating. Forced integration creates enormous tensions within the EU. Respect for and preservation of cultural and religious individuality of Member States is essential. What is the government's view of the White Paper scenario of a Europe at different speeds? Significant of the European ambition is the intention to extend the EU to six Balkan countries. Commission President Juncker spoke about repairing the roof when the sun shines. But why, while the roof is still leaking and the walls are tearing, would you build an extra wing? Does the Minister share our fears that the EU is not exporting stability, but rather importing instability? In the end, the EU will have to decide on the final stage of the integration process. What should the EU choose, according to this cabinet: for a superstate or for an EU as a superpower of cooperating states? Mr. Chairman. At the interface of internal and external, I mention the growth of Islam on our continent. Unfortunately, this growth is accompanied by anti-Semitism and intolerance. I refer in this light to the recent warning from the President of the German Parliament, Wolfgang Schäuble, which explicitly links immigration with growing anti-Semitism. How does the Minister respond to this concern? I hope I am wrong, but I sometimes have the impression that the Frederica Mogherini people of this world are not only running around with a headscarf, but also with a blindfold in this area. Can the Minister reassure me? Are the dark sides of this religion honestly faced? After all, it happens under our eyes in Western Europe: you survive the Shoah and then, aged high, you are killed because you are a Jew. What is the EU doing to stop anti-Semitism by all means? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the internal perspective, there is the external dimension. Europe is caught between many, sometimes unpredictable, countries. This geographical aspect alone brings with it several challenges: migratory waves, strong leaders moving, globalisation that is both beneficial and detrimental to the economy and employment. In order to remain amidst this violence, the EU must first of all maintain reliable alliances. Good cooperation is needed with the US and the UK. But also, as far as possible, with countries in the ring around Europe, such as Russia, Turkey and the North African countries. Not soft, but effective. NATO must and must remain the cornerstone of our security policy. It is also crucial that European countries, and the Netherlands first, take steps towards the NATO standard of 2% of GDP. The 1.5 billion extra in the coalition agreement is a good first step. It is fine that countries work together in the defence field, but as far as the SGP is concerned, it is not a targeted move towards a European army.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u119	I know of the SGP as a party that supports proper funding of that 2%. We also know from the defence note and all the noises surrounding it that it is not enough. We also know that I do not have the number available, but it is about tens, even hundreds of billions of dollars that one manages to make profits through joint procurement and cooperation within Europe. Then the knife would cut both ways. Would the SGP want to make a move for that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u120	It is absolutely true that a huge amount of money is needed in this area. In that sense, you should not exclude an option to use the money that is available as efficiently as possible. If this can be done by means of cooperation or joint purchasing, then that is indeed excellent, as long as we do not work towards a European army. This has to do with our view that the government's swordpower must remain with the national Member States. But of course it is good to look at everything that is conceivable in the field of cooperation, while preserving sovereignty and so on. Mr. Chairman. The SGP is struggling with the progressive, philosophical direction of the European Commission and other institutions. Eastern European Member States wishing to promote traditional Christian values in areas such as sexuality, marriage and family are being tackled hard. You sometimes wonder why the EU is more courteous towards Iran than towards Hungary. Ancient Communist and Sociologist Frank Furedi I believe that he has just been interviewed for Trouw or de Volkskrant, in this context, accused the EU of colonial arrogance. I quote: 'Poland and Hungarians are being addressed as if it were the mission in Africa'. Abortion organisations such as Planed Parenthood and Marie Stopes International, on the other hand, regularly receive bins of subsidy money. As far as the SGP is concerned, that is the world upside down. Can the Minister explain how the EU promotes life protection and how these efforts can be developed? Mr. Chairman. My group also has difficulty with the choices made by the EU and this cabinet on the Israeli-Palestinian issue. Will the cabinet continue to strive for optimum coordination in this area with the United States, rather than opting for counter-responses to decisions taken by the Trump administration, for example on UNRWA? In accordance with the Van der Staaij motion adopted, will the cabinet, in consultation with other EU Member States, more often vote against anti-Israeli UN resolutions? Moreover, all EU Member States, the Netherlands first, should move their embassy tracks to Jerusalem. With his decision to move the American Embassy to Jerusalem, Trump underlines that Israel's right to exist is not being undermined and that the Palestinians must join that reality. That could be a serious basis for real peace talks. Does the Minister wish to join us for the sake of peace? In other areas, too, I call for America to be followed: no aid to the Palestinians as long as they continue to sponsor terrorists generously. The Jewish state is 70 years old this year. This includes an appropriate European gift: a policy that promotes the security and well-being of Jews, both inside and outside Israel. In any case, there is no close cooperation here with the mortal enemy of Israel, Iran. Is the Minister prepared to commit to this gift? Mr. Chairman. We cannot go around the hot issue of leaving the UK from the EU. In 1792 the conservative Edmund Burke spoke on the Internet in the British Parliament. You can read back all those lectures; very interesting... about Europeans, especially about the French. He said, "They talk as if England is not in Europe." Hopefully more understanding can now be gained for each other's positions. In the meantime, we are in phase two of the negotiations. Time is running out. How are the negative effects of the Brexit on Dutch business as much as possible mitigated? Are the departments concerned making the right plans? Is there enough central direction? Mr. Chairman. The world sometimes looks suspiciously like Diplomacy, in my opinion the favorite game of Minister and Language Wonder Mrs Kaag. There too you can sometimes lose unexpectedly hard, for example because of hubris or because friends turned out to be enemies. In the game, the ridicule of your fellow players is the worst thing that can happen to you. In real life, the consequences are greater. Then it's about jobs, prosperity and security. The art is to find a balance between proximity and distance, which benefits both internal and external stability. Not unnecessary or unlawful broadening and deepening, but reforming the EU! Powerful action where necessary, appropriate modest where possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u121	Thank you very much, Mr Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u122	Mr. Chairman. You can look at the EU differently. My impression was that the more the world gets upset, the clearer it becomes that the European Union is very important to us, because in this shrinking world there is so much cross-border that we can no longer regulate it alone, because Europe is a huge and purchasing power market that benefits a trading nation like ours tremendously and because Europe can already offer solidarity and therefore security to the extent that the Netherlands alone cannot offer. These are practical advantages that Europe offers us and which almost the whole of the Netherlands agrees on. But it's not complete yet. Maybe not everyone but a lot of Dutch people feel as at home across the border as they do within our borders. They let their children learn English as best they can, because the world is bigger than just the Netherlands. And they are well aware that what is happening in the countries around us has a direct impact on ourselves. Maybe not all Dutch, but a lot, are Dutch but in fact just as well European. Beyond our borders, the world is not suddenly strange, because there is a common legacy, built from a common history in many ways. Not everywhere without difficulty, even now, but all over Europe democracy and human rights have become the starting point for our thinking about society. In all good but business words about the EU, our Prime Minister was allowed to place a little more emphasis on the fact that we are acting in a majority as if not only the Netherlands but the whole of Europe is our homeland, and that European citizenship is the formal expression of this and that we find the Netherlands, Friesland, Limburg or Groningen within that larger European homeland our, so important, smaller homelands. To return to this morning's discussion, that feeling is separate from the discussion of where sovereignty lies. That's something else. But this seems to me to be the beginning of thinking and feeling about Europe. Next, it is necessary to establish in a business manner what the European level of regulation and institutionalisation should include, as we should do for the Empire, the Province and the Municipality. The difference is that the European level is still much clearer. This requires careful consideration of the decisions to be taken. We must decide on the finances available to Europe, taking into account the forthcoming Brexit, the embedding of the euro area in Europe, the banking union, the completion of the internal market and the importance of the tax system, the waiting list of countries wishing to join, the migration policy and the protection of borders, foreign and defence policy, the standards and values that apply in the Union and how they should be maintained, and much more naturally. Too much to treat it all in my 12 minutes. The Brexit means that a large part of income falls away. If the remaining countries continue to pay the same as they have so far, all this means that the package of services provided is shrinking, because the UK was a net contributor. So it paid more than it got back to services. In view of the additional tasks that are required, security, immigration control, and certainly climate policy, it seems that it is not possible to do so. Agricultural policy can abandon income support and focus solely on landscape and environmental values, and the Structural Funds can be limited to objectives that truly serve the convergence of the poor parts of Europe. That is where savings can be made, and that will not be easy. I believe that the multiannual financial framework is based on a little more than the 1% GNP of today. What's the Minister's position on that? In doing so, the Commission proposes a tax area of its own for the EU, so that the almost exclusive dependence on Member States' direct payments is reduced slightly. Alex Brenninkmeijer, the Dutch member of the European Court of Auditors, defended this last, especially with the argument that the payments always tend to see if there is enough money coming back. That is a good argument, because European spending must serve a clear European objective and not be driven by the question of how much a country has paid and can then get back. There are sensible European taxes, specifically supporting environmental and climate policies. This does not have to stand in the way of the principle that Europe must remain economical. Nor is it based on the assumption that countries, and banks, are responsible for putting things in order before they can call for solidarity. The euro is the EU currency. And because the euro is European, I do not think that it makes sense to set up separate structures for the euro group. The euro area needs to be embedded in the structure of the Union, where a Commissioner could act as President. It can therefore justify the euro policy to the European Parliament. As far as I am concerned, the same applies to the EMS, which can be converted into a European Monetary Fund within European structures, and not isolated from it. There too, of course, it is possible to regulate control for the countries which make the funds available. Keeping this principle of organisations within Union structures seems to me also to be a matter of simplicity and overview, and of democracy, because then Parliament can at least always be informed. In the case of enhanced forms of cooperation, as in the case of the EPPO, this is also the sensible starting point. Enhanced cooperation results in a multi-speed EU. The Visegrád countries do not really feel that way, but in view of the political situation, it seems to me that an EU with its forerunners and those who are lagging behind is inevitably real and also stimulating for those who are lagging behind. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, this has already been demonstrated by the EPPO. The decision remains with regard to the proposals for 3% turnover tax on eServices, and linked to them to include these companies in the CCCTB and the CCCTB respectively as a profit tax. I have already spoken on these taxes. I now refer to what Mr Lamassoure, French MEP in the European Parliament, said about this: 'For companies, the CCCTB project brings a single fiscal space for the most important tax. It means simplicity, justice, fair conditions of competition. For the Member States, it is the only way to put an end to the temptation to devise national laws and practices that are tantamount to stealing from the neighbours in tax matters." If Europe is a single market, then a uniform tax base to calculate tax profits is obvious. The fact that the government is paying attention to the result for the Netherlands and, in the case of consolidation, trying to get a system of profit-sharing across countries that does justice to our type of economy is right, if that is meant to be constructive. The government states that it wants to combat base erosion and therefore considers "harmonising critical points" to be a good idea. Does not soil erosion always remain a problem as long as there is no equal European basis? How does the Minister feel about that? In many things, it can pay to see the EU as a unit and to make common arrangements, equal for all. But not for everything. Each country is also entitled to its peculiarities and inherited habits, judgments and even prejudices. As far as asylum policy is concerned, of course, we need as much uniform a way as possible of dealing with and taking decisions. Furthermore, it is clear that only the Dublin system cannot provide a solution for those countries which inevitably receive the most influx. There is a need for a degree of solidarity in the form of readmission of refugees from other countries, but their acceptance is particularly difficult in the eastern Member States. That doesn't have to be surprising. Western Europe traditionally has a relatively open economy, and there are problems there too. The Eastern countries, Mr Schaap, also pointed out that societies are more traditional and more closed and have in fact had a turbulent history of ethnic problems everywhere and often threatened their people's existence. That goes back farther than communist times. It also goes back further than World War I. It is understandable that the integration of new groups of foreigners works differently than here. Solidarity is required from all Member States, but the way solidarity is implemented may be different. Countries have also indicated their willingness to pay if this cup can pass them by. How does the Minister feel about that? And then there are European standards and values. The Western Balkans, which must be kept within the European sphere of influence, if only in order to prevent accidents, still lacks the necessary standards and values. The EU countries in the neighbourhood are not, in fact, either. Romania and Bulgaria were still sighing under corruption. Slovenia and Croatia have an apparently insoluble dispute over the maritime borders. Bosnia will never become stable in its present form. There is perhaps something else to be thought of. Moreover, Kosovo and Macedonia are threatening the same fate, and Poland and Hungary, as almost the most developed countries in the former Eastern bloc, want a different form of democracy. The Balkans could not and cannot be left to their own devices, so a long-term process is inevitable, but calculated. As far as Poland and Hungary are concerned, as long as the governments get majorities behind them in free elections, it does not make sense to criticize internal affairs, I think. Except for one thing, the judiciary must be able to function independently. Without it, the rule of law is in immediate danger. That the European Commission is trying to achieve this must be supported. I assume the Minister feels the same way. We have another country in the EU where, although the judiciary is called independent, there seems to be strong ties from the authoritarian past between the ruling people's party and the judge appointed for life. A country that puts politicians in prison with not a handful, but a few million followers, refusing to negotiate reasonable compromises. We call that country 'democratic' because it is a member of the EU, but we would not seriously consider such action to be appropriate for a democracy. It seems to me that there is a duty here for the Foreign Minister to make it clear to me, with quiet diplomacy, that democracy allows for minorities and that prohibitions, threats and prison sentences do not fit in with that. Mr President, I am curious to hear what the Ministers have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u123	Thank you, Mr Ten Hoeve. I shall suspend the sitting until 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u124	We will continue with the General European Reviews. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you for your kind words of welcome. It's not the first time, but it's good to be here again. As the President noted, it is my first appearance, at least in the plenary session, as Minister for Foreign Affairs. Before I go into the specific questions, I think it is right that I should give my views on European cooperation in a broad sense. I belong to a generation raised by parents and teachers who consciously experienced the Second World War and who often got to know the European map by radio reports about capitals being bombed, attacked, liberated or occupied by the Russians. They have seen the Hunger Winter and for them European integration was part of the great leap forward that our country made after the war. A world of never hunger and of European cooperation instead of wars. For a long time, of course, there was also the threat of the Cold War and the Iron Curtain. But there were also the concrete results of European cooperation in everyday life. Suddenly olive oil and French cheese were affordable in the shop. Our farmers and growers and Philips could also grow because it became increasingly easier to do business within Europe. Those were great achievements. At the same time, I belong to a generation of politicians who have looked very disappointed at Europe. In 2003, for example, the ink of the EMU Treaty was barely dry or we had to observe that France and Germany did not comply with the agreed rules. All this leads me to believe that, as Foreign Minister, I will always work for the Dutch interest, which is generally in the interests of good international cooperation and more specifically European cooperation. Where that is possible and necessary, we must deepen it, keeping to our commitments. Against this background, I will answer the questions raised about general European policy, European foreign policy and the Multiannual Financial Framework. Mr Hoekstra will answer questions about EMU, banking union and taxation. I shall begin with the questions that Mrs Faber has asked. Mrs Faber's first question was accompanied by a scoop to my colleague Kaag about her visit to Iran. I would like to distance myself from Mrs Faber's statement on this matter. Ms Kaag was a Dutch minister in Iran. It is very important that we also keep the lines open with Iran. Yes, there are areas where we do not agree with Iran's policy, but we are going to visit it to deliver Dutch messages and we are listening to what Iran has to say. In Iran there is a different law than in the Netherlands, and we abide by it, just as we hope other people in the Netherlands will abide by our laws. It does not give a pass to accuse a Dutch minister of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u126	We have all seen the footage of the Iranian women going out there to get rid of the headscarf. Wouldn't it have been a very nice signal if our Foreign Minister had at least visited the Ayatollah without a headscarf? Wouldn't she have been able to send out a very nice signal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u127	It is very important that the Dutch Minister can give that signal and that we are also talking to countries with which we do not agree, such as Iran. This can be done by complying with the laws of the country, even if they are laws that we fortunately do not have in the Netherlands. The way in which the colleague was distanced was wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u128	If she had visited the ayatollah without a single head, would she have been denied access?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u129	As I pointed out, it's the custom that you obey the laws of that country in another country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u130	I can't get an answer to my question. Would she have been denied access to this ayatollah if she hadn't worn her headscarf?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u131	It is an answer to the question. We expect people who come to the Netherlands to comply with the laws here, regardless of whether or not we expel them from the country. That's a matter of basic decency. If you want to achieve something in international traffic, you adhere to the laws of other countries. I do not agree at all with the laws of many countries. I was in Venezuela myself recently, but I had a great interest in going there. For example, Mr Kaag went to Iran on behalf of the Dutch Government, because Iran is a country with which we must remain in dialogue for many reasons. Then I think it is wrong to talk so critically about that visit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u132	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u133	Can I conclude, then, that the government policy is that the Foreign Minister is visiting the Ayatollahs with a headscarf and abandoning Iranian women on the streets?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u134	Mrs Faber chooses her own words and I choose mine. In the interests of the Netherlands, it is government policy to maintain contacts with countries whose contact with them is very important, for example to draw attention to the position of women in those countries. If we did not maintain these contacts, we would not be able to defend the interests of women, politically persecuted or others in those countries. Mrs Faber's next question concerned the idea of a European solidarity corps, as launched by President Juncker. In the view of the Dutch Government, this should be implemented through the Member States. Then Mrs Faber asked about border surveillance at the Greek-Turkish border.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u135	The minister is super fast. I really need to be very alert to keep up with him. Let's talk about the solidarity fund. In the coalition agreement, in your coalition agreement, the cabinet writes on page 10: the cabinet will consider how a more mandatory variant of social service can play a role in the qualification obligation. This would mean that there would be more pressure to be employed in some kind of social solidarity corps and that this would also be a pre-requisite for a job in the government. That's in your own coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u136	Sure, but that is the result of a discussion that has also been held in the Netherlands about the benefits of the service as you used to know it, but which is no longer there. That is why the coalition agreement says that it is being considered whether we in the Netherlands could work on a social service obligation and possibly link benefits to it. This is a different plan from the one put forward by President Juncker by Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u137	So the Minister doesn't see that as an extension of Juncker's solidarity corps?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u138	That's right. Then there is the question of border surveillance at the Greek-Turkish border. I'm sure there is. They are two countries that have not always had a close relationship, but because of the great migratory pressure there is also European support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u139	Mrs Faber...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You'll be rid of me when my questions are dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u141	I was going to say that at some point you should let the Minister speak a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u142	Of course, but I do want my questions to be answered properly. But then I'm gonna sit down, too, and I'm gonna sit down. Greek defence is keen to guard its own borders. But the European Union has preferred to give 3 billion to Turkey to guard that border. My question is again: why is Greece not going to guard the border, possibly with the support of the European Union? Because the border has two sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u143	If I understand Mrs Faber correctly, she suggests that Greece is not guarding the border, because she says: why is Greece not guarding the border? That is factually incorrect. Once again, it is not true that Greece and Turkey have been close friends throughout history. By nature, there is a tendency to guard the mutual border. We all know that Greece was an important access point, especially at the height of the migration flow from Syria, but also migrants from other countries use it, and that is why there is European support for border surveillance on the Greek side of the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u144	And yet it happened some time ago that Greece was whistled back when they tackled the migratory flow. While Turkey is allowed on the other side of the border. That's weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u145	This is a very general question, because I can't put it exactly. I know that there have been court rulings on the asylum procedure, but without an explanation, I cannot judge exactly what this question is aimed at. But maybe he'll come. Mrs Faber was the first to ask, and others later on, about the attitude towards the countries of the Western Balkans. Do they or do they not qualify for EU membership? First of all, the Western Balkans are of strategic importance for Europe and therefore for the Netherlands. Instability in this region would have a direct impact on the European Union and the Netherlands, which history has also learned. This also means that we are providing support along a number of routes, both through the European Union and through NATO, and also, for example, in promoting the building of the democratic rule of law through the Matra programme. When it comes to the accession wishes of the Balkan countries, the past has learned that, as Mr Schaap pointed out, it is crucial that accession takes place in a strict but fair manner. It will not benefit anyone if, probably with the best intentions but still, you are flexible on the admission criteria, whether that is the rule of law, the free press or the fight against corruption, if you are not strict and honest about it. Before accession can be achieved, you will reap the bitter fruits of it and those countries themselves. So, in practice, this means that enlargement of the European Union is not on the agenda in the coming years, but that we will be very strict about what progress is being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u146	I would like to dwell on that for a moment. On the one hand, it is right that we cannot accept new Member States. The absorption capacity of the European Union alone would be affected and could collapse. On the other hand, we note that all kinds of unsatisfied developments are taking place in the Western Balkans: instability and crisis. And that means that we need to go a little further than the observation of this, plus the communication: we do not see them becoming members for the time being, because they are not in a position to do so. I fully agree with the Minister when he says that, only if one is very undesirable and the other cannot actually do so, then you will have to be a little more creative to come up with something with those countries to do something about the stability of those countries and b to avoid dragging the European Union further into the mud. That is why I think it is a somewhat unsatisfactory answer so far, but I would like to await the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u147	Well, I went on to say that there are pre-accession programmes, of the Matra programme, precisely to ensure that developments are encouraged in the right direction. There is also NATO cooperation. But before accession could ever happen, all the criteria must be clearly met at the same time. But it's so en-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u148	I had also asked whether it would not be contrary to the fundamental principles of the EU if an EU member is also a member of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u149	I wanted to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u150	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u151	On the contrary, attention has been paid to the unstable situation in the Western Balkans from various sides of this Chamber. The Minister states that they are part of the Matra programme and that we are providing financial support. The question that came to mind here is whether we are doing enough. Do these programmes help enough to ensure that we support these countries in developing in the right direction? After all, we see exactly how vulnerable they are now to wrong influences. Perhaps the Minister could go a little further on this, because everyone here is convinced that they are not meeting the accession criteria now, so that is not the point. But it's how we keep them on the right side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u152	In my opinion, we're doing enough. Not that Mrs Strik is saying that now, but of course the thoughts are soon going in the direction of: would it help to make more money available? We also see in the functioning of the members of the European Union that, unfortunately, when a lot of money is available, it does not lead to an immediate improvement in the quality of the rule of law or a better fight against corruption. That is why you have the two legs: yes, financial programmes and technical support, but at the same time it is clear that the criteria must be met before accession.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u153	Maybe the time is right for that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u154	Mrs. Strik, Mrs. Strik!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u155	Oh, yeah. Maybe the time is right there to see if we should look a little more creatively for solutions to ensure that we achieve the effects we want. I immediately agree with the Minister that more money alone is not a solution. But is there sufficient analysis at EU level of effectiveness and sufficient thought being given to possible other complementary strategies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u156	The Commission is coming forward with a progress report on the accession procedure in the short term, and that is a logical time to look again at whether the existing instruments are working properly or whether additional steps are needed. Then I come to Mrs Faber's question as to whether Albania can be a member of the EU and at the same time another international organisation, the OIC. EU membership does not preclude a country from being a member of other organisations. However, membership of the EU means that you meet all the criteria relating to the rule of law, the fight against corruption, respect for the fundamental rights of minorities, freedom of religion. That's always gonna have to come first. Mrs Faber was the first, followed by others, to discuss the transparency of European decision-making. I will go into this in more detail later, but Mrs Faber's question was specifically about openness about the voting behaviour of Member States. I have the impression that there is a misconception there, because the Union Treaty and the Council's Rules of Procedure have established that the Council is to vote on legislative acts in public. I will go into the points where I still see room for more openness, but this is how it is arranged for the votes. Then Mrs Faber asked whether the cabinet supports the European Union's policy of sanctions. Sanctions are, of course, a very firm measure in international traffic, which you would rather not take. But where necessary, it is inevitable. I am thinking, for example, of the situation in Myanmar, the violence against the Rohingya minority. I was, of course, addressed in Venezuela on the EU sanctions against Venezuela. Yes, unfortunately, that is necessary if a regime is to be overruled. So the current sanctions absolutely support the Netherlands. We are cooperating in all areas on their implementation. Then Mrs Faber asked whether refugees could apply for family reunification for a second partner in the event of a polygamous marriage. That is not possible in the Dutch asylum system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u157	Okay, at the moment that's already the case in Germany. You say that this is not the case in the Netherlands. But is it also true that the government holds that view that you can persuade one woman and not several women in a polygamous marriage?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u158	I do not believe that one of the governmental parties is a strong supporter of polygamy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u159	That might be possible, but do they also maintain the view that an asylum seeker should not persuade a second, third or fourth woman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u160	Once again, I do not think there is much chance that this cabinet will come forward with this proposal. I am looking at Mr Hoekstra, but even within the CDA, polygamy is not a traditional part of ideology, no. Neither does the VVD. Then I come to Mr Schaap, who, partly in his own speech and partly in his interruptions to other Members, addressed the very relevant question of what is really about sovereignty and its transfer. A lot of speeches have been written about this, not only in this Chamber but also in other places, such as in science. Not the least of them is from an illustrious predecessor of mine, who said about this in this Chamber: 'Sovereignty is an untamed concept. It is untamed in the sense that, on the one hand, it is absolute and final and, on the other hand, relative, because it is also about ability to act." He gave an example of the time for the introduction of the euro. At that time the Netherlands was sovereign in its monetary policy, but in practice De Nederlandsche Bank had to follow any interest rate adjustment in Germany within seconds. I believe that Mr Knapen has said very sensible things here, which are still in force. For the moment, it is relevant to me that issues such as globalisation, climate change, terrorism and migration cannot be dealt with by the Netherlands alone. It is not for nothing that this cabinet is of the opinion that European cooperation needs to be encouraged in these areas. That is also what the Prime Minister recently indicated in his speech in Berlin, to which many of you also referred. There must also be a strong international legal framework, an area in which the Netherlands has played a leading role. In areas where there is no need for international European action, the sovereignty of countries must also be respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u161	We have spoken on this subject a number of times today. I wanted to argue in favour of relativising, let us hold it on to the concept of sovereignty, even if it turns out to be so multi-interpretable. We have the concept of national sovereignty versus the concept of international sovereignty, and then we find all kinds of scholars and lay alike. I think it is such an important subject because it is not uncommon for a major stress factor to arise when the concept is used. And that's used especially when we don't want anything. Then it becomes a question of sovereignty at once. I see this government making a really good development with the underlying government agreement, for example when it comes to something like the European Public Prosecutor's Office. It's just a little more practical with that. That is precisely why I wanted to bring this to the attention of my fellow Members. Do I understand the Minister correctly that he says: we must, of course, keep a close eye on subsidiarity and, of course, there is always a sovereignty in that? But perhaps we should talk about subsidiarity instead of the great question of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u162	I would particularly like to speak with precision on this subject, because it really matters very much to the type of subject whether it is cross-border in nature that it is sensible to regulate the European system or even wider, or indeed national. In Mr Postma's speech, I also felt that I should hear a call for more European rules. Then I get the question: what exactly? Because it really depends on the subject. I do not think that Dutch people would like us to regulate healthcare at European level, because the average European level of healthcare is less than that in the Netherlands. Or take typically Dutch subjects like euthanasia, abortion or gay marriage. I think it is very important that we should at least be able to decide at national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u163	I really don't get this. The Minister now mentions all kinds of things that I did not mention in my speech. I find that really confusing. What I was just talking about with the Minister is, once again, that it is worth a sweet thing when the map of sovereignty is on the table a little less quickly, because it always causes a great deal of stress in the debate. We need to look much more practical: do we want this now and is it good for us, the neighbours and Europe or not? Then it is indeed better in a lot of areas that we do it ourselves and in a lot of areas that we do it together in Europe. I very much agree with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u164	Mr Postma is right that the examples are mine and not his. But I did that because I find it too elusive to talk about sovereignty in an abstract sense. Once again, in Mr Postma's speech, I thought I heard that there was a wish or suggestion for more decisions to be taken at European level. Then I think you should really call him man and horse: on what grounds? I have identified a number of areas, such as climate, security, the economy and migration, where cooperation can be improved. But I don't just have a whole list of other subjects where I see that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u165	Finally, Mr. Postéma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u166	The difference I taste in debates like this is the following. At a time when we are talking about subsidiarity, that is a difficult word, but then everyone will understand that it is about: is it sensible to do it ourselves or are we going to do it together in Europe and do we accept that we are actually mandating or delegationing responsibilities? The point of sovereignty is that it is immediately made very big. There is then a kind of existential question on the table at once: are we still the Netherlands and is Europe now becoming a state or not? That is why I think it is so important for Mr Schaap, who started the discussion, to say that again. Let us not hold each other prisoner in discussions about whether or not to transfer sovereignty. Let us look at what we want and what we do not want and what we do not want and what we are honest about to the citizens, particularly in the practical sense, including through the words we use.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u167	If I may also listen to this as a call for precision, we have found each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u168	In my speech on sovereignty, I was trying to remove the tension a little bit, simply stating that sovereignty lies with the Member States. That's what I'm talking about in a state of law. The Member States have a monopoly on the establishment of the public domain. To this end, they will also work together within Europe. They ask much of Brussels for preparatory work, directives, regulations and so on, but all this is done at the request of the Member States. I just wanted to keep the question of sovereignty a little simple and take off the fear that we're working towards a federal state. No, Europe is working together on a treaty basis, but sometimes spontaneously because you think it is wise to pick something up together and that's all. My point was also that it should remain so. We should not go with Europe to a federal state, if only because it calls for so much reaction from countries that do not want to do so, that will undermine Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u169	I also responded a little bit to the broader discussion that drew Mr Schaap out of it, but also the cabinet is not aiming for that federal state. That's where we found each other. Mr Schaap was also the first to enter into the Brexit negotiations. Others did that after him. I fully agree with him that there are enormous interests involved in these negotiations, especially for the Netherlands, because the Netherlands, with Ireland, has the most intensive trade relations with the United Kingdom. What is crucial in these negotiations is that the EU-27 operate together and that we, within the negotiating team, clearly highlight Dutch interests. I must say that I think that the process has been going well so far and that Mr Barnier and his people have defended European interests well. Of course, it is crucial that the internal market continues to function as much as possible, as well as cooperation in the field of security, on which I have heard regularly from the English people that they themselves attach great importance to this. Every step back in this area has great implications for entrepreneurs, for people travelling back and forth or living there. I have recently spoken with a group of Dutch people who live in England and who are very concerned about their position or the position of their children. The full effort is therefore not to let the Brexit end in a cliff edge, the blackest scenario, but to make the collaboration as smooth as possible. The United Kingdom's attitude, which has so far been often clearer in drawing red lines than in sketching lines to a solution, is crucial. Fortunately, we were able to reach an interim agreement in March. The full effort thus remains on the most damage-free Brexit possible. Mr Schaap was the first to discuss the rule of law in a number of Eastern European countries. He specifically asked about the action of the European Commission and of the Netherlands itself. As Mr Schaap knows, the European Commission, and specifically Commissioner Timmermans, is clear and sharp towards Poland and Hungary, because the proper functioning of the rule of law is really a cornerstone of European cooperation. This is important for the inhabitants themselves, but also for Dutch citizens or companies who do business or travel between those countries. That is the Commission's full commitment and also the full commitment of the cabinet. When I was Minister for Security and Justice, at a conference in Hungary, I addressed my Hungarian and Polish colleagues on these issues, and I will continue to do so. I hope I have answered Mrs Faber sufficiently about the situation in the Balkans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u170	I do not know whether the Minister has answered my questions on this matter. I was also talking about Poland and Hungary. My question was, on the one hand, what more can we do to ensure that the impact of our criticism on the undermining of the rule of law becomes more effective there. On the other hand, I asked: what does the Minister of AIV's opinion think about more peer reviews and why does he reject this? What would the alternatives be? Actually, a bit like the Western Balkans: things aren't working, what can we do to make it a little more effective what we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u171	I shall come back to the question about peer reviews, because it was only Mrs Strik who had asked them. The question of what we can do more was just before me, because it is linked to Mr Schaap's questions on the Multiannual Financial Framework. One of his questions was whether, as a condition for the Structural Fund, one could also demand that the European acquis be respected. This is one of the efforts made by the Netherlands in reforming the Structural Funds. I discussed this recently in Berlin and I agreed with my German colleague there. That is clearly on the retina and that is an immediate answer to Mrs Strik's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u172	One more comment on the rule of law. Apart from stability in Europe and defending our fundamental values, the Netherlands is the largest investor in many of these countries. I've been through it myself before, what it means if you can't go to court if something goes completely wrong. It is therefore in direct Dutch interest to maintain independent justice in those countries, because our business will run into it. For this reason, I believe that we must attach great importance to the fact that the trias politicians remain standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u173	I couldn't agree more. Then there's the Multiannual Financial Framework. The formal negotiations on this matter have yet to begin. The Commission will present a proposal in May. The Netherlands keeps in close contact with other European countries to see what their commitment is and to bring our spearheads to the fore. These key issues are specific reform, i.e. a more focused commitment to the future, more linked to innovation and to the real implementation of European core achievements. The stakes also mean that taxpayers' money is being saved. If the Member State leaves England, that does not mean that the other countries will automatically add up. In fact, it is not surprising that the cabinet conducts the discussion in this way, because it is very similar to the way in which we always have a discussion in the Netherlands about how to deal with taxpayers' money. Of course, there are always many wishes, but we are careful with the citizens' money. We must make choices and also indicate where savings can be made. Mr Schaap did a little wrong, for several reasons, to the truly honorable profession of accountants. If more accountants had been listened to, the banking crisis would have hit less hard. Moreover, Dutch culture is interspersed with illustrious accountants such as Droogstoppel and Laarmans. Perhaps Mr Schaap could re-examine the bookkeepers in the second term. Then I come to Mr Van Apeldoorn. He looked at the political nature of the European Commission. As Mr Van Apeldoorn knows, the cabinet is abandoning the political role of the Commission. On the contrary, the Commission must guard against the EU treaties. To this end, we repeatedly urge the Commission to do so. The Commission also has the right of initiative. Honorable ones: this Commission has made really good proposals, for example in the area of the internal market, in the area of less regulation and with steps taken on migration policy. As far as we are concerned, this is a question of a Commission which, in accordance with the Treaty, keeps watch over that treaty and does not play its own political role. Against the same background, the cabinet is not in favour of the concept of "ever closer union." There is still an incredible amount to be done in terms of the tasks I outlined earlier. It makes much more sense to make concrete progress there, whether it is the climate, the internal market or security. It is much better to show concrete results. This is also crucial for the public's support and understanding of European cooperation. We shouldn't have all kinds of reflections about distant futures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u174	The government and the SP Group agree that the European Commission should not play or seek an explicit political role. My question to the Minister is whether, in the opinion of the cabinet, the present Juncker Commission has done so on several occasions. People have publicly profiled themselves as a political Commission. Let me give you an example. There was a white paper containing five scenarios. The Commission said that these are simply different scenarios and the elected politicians can make their own assessment. Juncker then also promoted a sixth scenario that went even further than the fifth scenario towards further federalisation and defended it with extreme caution. Is this not an example of a Commission which is far too political in the opinion of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u175	Mr Van Apeldoorn is certainly right that there were examples of where the committee played too much political role. That is also the reason why the cabinet has distanced itself from this and at the same time said: now work on a large number of points where there are real steps to be taken. After all, you must not only say what should not be done, but also what should be done. I thought it was right to congratulate the committee where good results have been achieved. Mr Van Apeldoorn was the first to discuss migration policy. In fact, he asked for a moral judgment on the many deaths that have occurred in attempts to cross the Mediterranean. Of course, there can be no discussion that this is a terrible phenomenon that must be fought with full force. An important driving force behind these flows is the creation of a very cynical earning model for smugglers. This creates a mixed flow of people, on the one hand, who can rightly call on the Refugee Convention and, on the other hand, people who are looking for a better future. The latter is not to blame for an individual, but it really is not a basis for admission to the European Union or the Netherlands. In order to break the smuggling model and its terrible consequences, we need to take action on that route. That happened on the route through Turkey with the agreements that were made there. That approach is not a blueprint to copy to the other routes across the Mediterranean. Agreement on this can be made in the countries directly adjacent to the European Union, but also in the countries behind it. Last week's migration note by my colleague Harbers also covered this in detail. This approach has taught us that a package of measures will address both the sources of migration and the cynical smugglers that maintain migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u176	Of course, we agree, and I am glad that the cabinet notes, that it is terrible that 3,000 people drowned in the Mediterranean Sea last year. The question is, what can the EU, and the Netherlands, do about it? The Minister says that we should address this at the source and he refers to the Turkey deal. The fact is that so many people are still drowning in the Mediterranean. Isn't the best way to open legal routes for refugees, including to tackle human trafficking? Isn't the problem that that didn't happen at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u177	It is not that it is impossible to enter the Netherlands or the European Union. That's possible, if people meet the criteria. For example, there is a huge stream of students and people entering the Netherlands and the European Union on work visas, and that is a good thing. In addition, the Netherlands naturally adheres to the Refugee Convention, so if people are demonstrably persecuted or come from a country where there is such a war situation that they cannot reasonably return to it, they can call for asylum. But I see no reason to add another category to these categories unfocusedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u178	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u179	Yeah, finally. I believe that the legal routes are extremely limited at the moment, but I have another question about drownings in the Mediterranean. Recently, there was a report that the crew and skipper of a Spanish ship, which was covered by an NGO, were being prosecuted for the rescue of migrants trying to cross the Mediterranean. They'd be prosecuted for human trafficking. Can the Minister confirm that message? Is that EU policy: is it a crime for NGOs and other organisations to save people? Is that how we should tackle human trafficking in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u180	Mr Van Apeldoorn is now presenting me with a case I do not know, so I will have to return to that in writing. To be honest, it would help if Mr Van Apeldoorn could mention the source of this, perhaps outside the sitting, because I simply do not know the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u181	I should like to comment on what the Minister just said in reply to Mr Van Apeldoorn's question on resettlement opportunities. If I understood correctly, the Minister said that he felt no need to add another category for migrants who could come here with a visa. Is the Minister aware that refugees have no legal way of getting here? That's why they depend on smugglers. They do not get a visa for protection in order to fly here and there are transport sanctions, which means that transport companies do not take them with them. In short, there is nothing left for them but to come here either through smugglers and then submit an application for asylum, or to wait for resettlement in the camps. In the latter case, we see the problem that very few countries invite refugees to come legally. Does the Minister recognise the problem that there are very few legal ways for refugees to come here and ask for protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u182	It's not like there's no other route. Of course, it depends very much on the country where people come from. The people who are trying to reach Europe are, of course, in a somewhat enviable position, but we cannot disagree with the fact that we have to fight that terrible flow across the Mediterranean. The government's conviction is that you do so by tackling the smuggling of people on the entire route, as well as the sources and causes of the flight as much as possible. The solution cannot be to top the existing categories... Again, it is really not possible to enter the Netherlands to study or work. This is done on a large scale, but of course demands are made. As a country, and that is also a constitutional mission, you will have to make demands on those who can or cannot enter your country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u183	I think this is a very simplifying reality, because refugees are not usually in the situation that they meet the criteria for studying here. In order to study here, you also need funding. In order to work here, you need an employment permit, which you're hardly ever getting. They are therefore almost always dependent on resettlement, on invitation, or on smugglers. So I would like the Minister to look more seriously at that, because that would mean that you would have to make serious work of resettlement if you really do not want to get involved with smugglers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u184	The suggestion that this should not be looked at seriously is far from my point of view. At the time, I was responsible for housing the large influx of Syrians after the first reception in the asylum centres. This has been a huge challenge for society. In the coalition agreement, and in the meantime also in the letter from Mr Harbers, the cabinet has described in detail how migration can be tackled in different places. In doing so, the Netherlands will always be open to people who can rightly call on the Refugee Convention, but I see no reason to open additional routes on top of the existing routes that exist because that was Mr Van Apeldoorn's question. Mr Van Apeldoorn then commented on the Turkish invasion in Afrin and the Dutch attitude towards it. The Netherlands is very critical of this invasion and has also shown this in several places. I did when I spoke a week and a half ago in the Security Council. We are also doing this at different levels at European level. I also stated that I condemn the effect of that raid on the fight that the Netherlands is fighting against ISIS with coalition partners and Kurdish fighters, because Kurdish fighters have withdrawn from the fight against ISIS to defend Afrin. It is true that other countries are also making critical noises. I therefore welcome Chancellor Merkel's statement, which Mr Van Apeldoorn also referred to. Fortunately, there are several countries which find something, but it is not so that I can force other countries to make tougher statements about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u185	I am pleased to hear that the Minister is pleased with Mrs Merkel's statement. Can I conclude from this that the Dutch Government also strongly condemns the attack in Afrin? For those were the literal words of Chancellor Merkel: strongly condemn. Is that the qualification this cabinet would like to give to this illegal invasion of Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u186	I'm not giving you a new qualification. I've used the verdict "judge" for the effect it has on the fight against ISIS. That was a clear statement, with which we also took a strong stand. I personally did that in the Security Council. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked why the Netherlands has taken action at EU level in the Skripal case, but has not taken similar measures in the wake of the worrying developments in the Gaza Strip. Foreign policy inevitably involves a lot of worrying, incorruptible and sometimes degrading situations in many countries. It is often tempting to ask the question: why did you take measure A in one situation and measure B in the other situation? That's because all these situations require their own, specific approach. During the attack on Skipal and his daughter there is plausibility about Russian involvement, because of the type of nerve gas used and the origin of Mr. Skripal and his daughter. Together with other European countries, supported by a number of countries outside, we have put pressure on Russia to cooperate in a study to clarify the perpetrators. The situation in the Gaza Strip is different for a lot of reasons, but it is not at all the case that the Netherlands has remained on its hands. As a member of the Security Council, the Netherlands has expressly called for an investigation into all cases of victims. Unfortunately, this wish did not lead to a Security Council resolution, but the commitment of the Netherlands was fully focused on this. Mr Van Apeldoorn raised the issue of the European Union's military role, which has indeed been raised in recent years. This has been done in the light of the fact that NATO is and remains the cornerstone of security policy as far as the collective defence is concerned, but that the EU plays a very important additional role in this. A very direct reason for this is the instability at the edges of Europe, for example through the smuggling of people across the Mediterranean Sea and its causes. So there may be situations where NATO does not act and yet it is necessary to act with allies. In addition, there is the very practical point, which was also mentioned in the debate, that it is very wise to spend the scarce resources for defence together, because that way you will get more quality for the same money. "More bang for the buck," say military. Mr Van Apeldoorn also commented on the shifting balance between labour and capital...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u187	The shifting balance between labour and capital is a very interesting subject, but I would like to come back to the previous point. Working with neighbouring countries in the military field is one thing, but it is now specifically about the European Defence Fund in Europe. That is what my first question was about. We are talking about 500 million a year, and if it is up to the European Commission, perhaps 1,000 million a year, in subsidies for the European defence industry, which I believe is making 100 billion dollars a year. Why would that be justified? So that is different from working together in the military field, on which we can also have a discussion, but we will do so another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u188	The idea behind this common fund is the economies of scale I have just mentioned. Within Europe, defence equipment is currently being bought in a rather fragmented way. So you can get more bang for the buck by buying in together. Dutch companies can also benefit from this, because a number of Dutch companies play a leading role.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u189	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u190	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. The European Defence Fund is not primarily about joint procurement. It's also about research and development. It is therefore a question of subsidies for the European arms industry, the question of which is whether it needs them. There is talk of economies of scale, but they are already large multinationals operating on a European scale. Is there not more money going to the European multinationals in this sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u191	The arms industry has no customers other than governments, at least in Europe. Before you can develop anything new, there is R&D, but also R&D is clearly economies of scale. I have rightly heard several speakers mention R&D among the priorities of closer European cooperation. Yes, unfortunately, we live in a world where the arms industry and the military are needed and R&D is done, preferably as efficiently as possible. Then there's the shift between labor and capital. It is, of course, very important that the benefits of European cooperation in the economic sense should also be felt by the people, i.e. those who are employed, those who are entrepreneurs and those who are retired. This generally has a lot to do with national policies. By opening up borders but also setting rules where necessary, for example on the social dimension of cross-border work, on which strict rules have recently been agreed, we can ensure that exploitation is combated and that the benefits are extended to European citizens. The Copenhagen Declaration. Mr Van Apeldoorn was also the first to comment on this. Mrs Strik had more questions about that, so I will come to that later. Mr Van Apeldoorn specifically asked if the Minister would go there. My colleague Grapperhaus will go to that conference. Mr Van Apeldoorn also asked about accession to the ECHR. That is still the Dutch Government's commitment, but that process has been delayed following an opinion from the Court of Justice. This is already from 2014, but it contains a number of fundamental points. The Commission has the lead to resolve these issues, but the Dutch commitment remains that the Union also joins the ECHR.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u192	The SP Group welcomes the government's continued commitment to achieving the European Union's accession to the ECHR. The Minister states that it is settled, because there is a judgment of the European Court in Luxembourg four years ago that there would be a particular problem legally. My question is, what exactly is he into? In a weighing of this cabinet? What does the cabinet see as the possibilities and opportunities to achieve this? In other words, how is this commitment concretely designed? Indeed, we have been waiting for it since the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u193	The European Council in which the Netherlands is represented has asked the European Commission to come up with an analysis of the legal issues that are still going on and to conclude them quickly. The European Parliament has done the same. With this analysis I can answer your question, but the Commission is 'in the lead' here. As soon as that analysis is available, of course we will be happy to share it with the Chamber. Transparency and the initiative of this Chamber to come up with a COSAC opinion to promote this transparency. The Dutch Government has consistently advocated greater transparency in a number of areas. Against this background, we also very much welcome the initiative of that COSAC document. It will be discussed in the Council Working Party on Information on 26 April, so it is on the agenda. The Dutch commitment remains that steps are being taken with regard to transparency. We will continue to inform the Chamber about this. Mr Van Apeldoorn then referred to the appointment of Mr Selmayr. The European Commission's control lies with the European Parliament. As Mr Van Apeldoorn knows, the European Parliament has also launched an extensive round of questions, both in writing and in the form of a hearing with Commissioner Oettinger. The European Parliament's investigation is still ongoing. I indicated in the Lower House that in a previous life as Minister for the National Service I was responsible for the personnel policy of the government and the appointment of top officials and that I would feel it as a defeat myself if an appointment would lead to so much public debate. This does not in fact lead to confidence on the part of the institution which is the subject of this debate, but the monitoring task lies with the European Parliament. Mr Van Apeldoorn commented on Mr Dekker's recent letter on the deadlines for the implementation of European directives. I assume that there will be a separate discussion with Mr Dekker, because I have not heard a specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u194	Shortly, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u195	Yes, Mr President, there may be a separate discussion with Mr Dekker. That may indeed be a good idea, but perhaps the Minister, from his position as Foreign Minister, will be able to go into what the cabinet now sees as a problem and the cause of that problem here during the General European Reviews. The letter, which I believe was originally signed by your predecessor to the Minister for Legal Protection, states that the deadlines for implementation are increasingly exceeded and that this leads to fines. So that's a problem. The suggestion contained in that letter was a bit that the delay was caused by parliament and especially the Upper Chamber. The new letter from the Minister for Legal Protection actually takes that back. Then where is the problem and where is the solution according to the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u196	The problem is clearly not in the First Chamber. If that suggestion had been woken up, I'd really like to take it away. The fact is that the implementation periods are often rather sharp. I remember that I once had the task of implementing an energy label on the basis of a European directive. That happened under great pressure of time and indeed a threatening fine of 90 million, I think. This does not mean that there should not be a careful legislative process, but rather in the context of the reality that exists at such a time. What the debate may be about is when or when there should be no delegation provisions in such a directive. Directives often deal with rather technical issues, such as the admissibility of substances. In such a case, the cabinet considers it wise to include this under delegation provisions, otherwise, for quite technical matters, you will have to go through a full parliamentary process every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u197	I believe that the background to my question was also that the original letter from the cabinet said that the implementation of European directives could have a broader basis for delegation than regular legislation. In this Chamber, too, we have said on several occasions that we are not in favour of anything being left to lower legislation at all. The same should apply to the implementation of European directives. I think that's where the jumping point is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u198	Again, I think that precision is important. Again, European directives are often very technical. Your Chamber can judge this by its own implementation, but in those cases it does not seem to me in anyone's interest to go through very technical lists here. At least that was the background to that passage in the letter and, again, not that there would be any reproach to the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u199	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u200	On that point very briefly, Mr President. Does the Minister agree with us that when it comes to transposing European directives into national law, the primacy lies with the national legislator and not with the European legislator? That point in the first letter of the cabinet was in any case confused.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u201	For transposition into national law, the primacy lies, of course, with the national legislator. At the same time, there is an obligation to do so, often accompanied by a penalty clause. I can't escape that either. I come to the very thorough contribution of Mr Knapen, who, among other things, outlined how it could end with journalists entering politics. I very much agree with him that if we have our affairs in order within the Union, we can make a stronger fist against autocratic regimes in our environment and in all kinds of international negotiations. I agree not only with that, but also with the line of 'what do we want to do?''. There are also things that we do not want, but there is an extensive list of subjects that I mentioned earlier in my speech, which we consider to be very important, that follow-up and ambitious steps should be taken. As far as I am concerned, this ambition should not be accompanied by the weakening of key parts for the Netherlands, for example a stable and competitive euro area and a more modern Multiannual Financial Framework. Nor should you turn on your ambitions if you want to work towards a better Europe. It may well be part of this that Member States take more responsibility themselves. This is true of all kinds of reforms, but that is certainly true of EMU, which Mr Hoekstra will go into even more detail. If I understood him correctly, Mr Knapen called for us to join the French-German dynamics. There is the inevitable reaction: it depends on what this dynamic leads to. A dynamic that is moving in the right direction, and I have outlined the issues which we will support wholeheartedly. There are also very frequent contacts between a large number of administrators and German and French colleagues, but it must not be the case that the initiative and, consequently, the playing field will be entirely in the hands of the Franco-German axis. The Union is too diverse for that. At the beginning of my speech I indicated: you can expect a Dutch minister to stand up for the Dutch interest. There is no other minister who will do that. As far as external policy is concerned, Mr Knapen is absolutely right that there are major successes there and that this is also more effective as internal policy is better coordinated. Think, for example, of migration policy, which has both an external and an internal side. I also agree with him that it is not the case that when ministers take their positions, he referred to Africa as an example. Hence the commitment in the migration note but also in my own foreign policy and security policy, so that we can intervene in several places throughout that chain of migration. Against this background, of course, the relationship with China is also important, which Mr Knapen also mentioned. China is an increasingly large player. As champions of free trade, we also consider it very important that we can do business with China in an open and transparent manner, but where necessary we should also be able to act if, for example, we can take away intellectual property or market-distorting subsidies. It is precisely when these things play out that it is very important to act in a European context as well. Mr Knapen also addressed European defence cooperation and specifically asked about the initiative launched by Macron. The Netherlands is in favour of this. It needs to be further worked out. It has been announced but not yet worked out in detail. The palette outlined is a collaboration with a group of, for example, ten countries which are more intensively consulted and exchange information in order to be able to work together when military action is involved. In the case of the Netherlands, this should not be a new reaction force, nor should it affect cooperation in NATO or where that is at issue in the United Nations. In the case of military action, it is, of course, always crucial that every country can decide for itself whether or not it participates in a military operation. Then I come to Mr Postema's questions. His first question concerned the rule of unanimity in military operations. I hope I have answered that with this. He specifically asked for his own civilian-military capabilities. In 2017, the Council decided to launch a military planning and control capacity. It is a small unit which will be evaluated at the end of this year. On the basis of that evaluation, the Netherlands will also assess the need for adjustments. All this against the backdrop of the fact that we welcome this military cooperation at EU level alongside the NATO alliance. With regard to migration, I hope to have answered Mr Postema in reply to the questions and interruptions put by Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mrs Strik. I also hope that I have answered his questions on the Western Balkans sufficiently. Then there is Turkey's accession. Mr Postema asked whether, if the proposed constitutional change, which in fact removes the separation of powers, would remove the whole prospect of accession. I share Mr Postema's concerns about the development of the Turkish rule of law, but reflections on Turkey's accession are actually rather theoretical because at the moment the accession negotiations have been stuck for a long time and I do not see any changes in them in the short term. Mr Postema also asked whether we would like to focus on social rights and environmental standards in trade agreements, referring to the initiative proposal on child labour. Indeed, the cabinet's commitment in trade policy, both nationally and internationally, is to ensure that social rights and environmental standards are guaranteed. European treaties are also working as far as possible to this end, also in OECD conventions. So the subject is full on the agenda. Finally, Mr Postema asked for an opinion on the fact that 40% of young people in Spain, Italy and Greece do not have a job. It is a poignant situation which also illustrates the importance of national policies in a Europe which cooperates in important areas. I have had many debates, including in this Chamber, on whether tight adherence to the EMU criteria is the line of this cabinet and that of previous Cabinets, on balance, did not lead to higher unemployment or less prosperity. The countries involved, specifically Italy and Greece, are an example of the fact that not maintaining sound financial policies does not lead to more employment at all. It leads to two problems. You're financially stuck, and you're not competitive, which is why you have such a massive youth unemployment. For these countries, therefore, this is actually an incentive to pursue more reform-oriented policies, both financially and in other areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u202	We share that analysis. Moreover, however painful, the policy in this house has been much discussed with finance ministers who have preceded Mr Hoekstra. There has been a lot of criticism of the criteria and so on. I think we've done a good job of it in the end. We also discussed automatic stabilisers extensively at the expert meeting we had here in preparation for the debate. Such a framework is, of course, also helpful. The point, however, is that, without prejudice to that kind of criteria, in a European country that is a member of the Union, conditions can arise that are totally unacceptable and that one can ask oneself whether a population and the younger generation are not actually victims of, not rarely, bad policies. The positive question then is what the European Union can nevertheless do to help these groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u203	For me, then, the backbone of the policy remains the willingness to also take painful reform measures and keep state finances in order, as we have often done in the Netherlands with great sacrifice for the entire population. For example, in specific cases, European Structural Funds can be used. Perhaps that is what Mr Postema is referring to. I have to say, however, that the Structural Funds have been used in a number of countries for decades. However, they cannot compensate for what goes wrong in national financial and economic policies. We shouldn't wake up that suggestion either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u204	I agree with the Minister. At the same time, we also know that if you choose an overly technocratic approach that is not recognized by the population, as was done in the troika, you may have much bigger problems. This also applies in the longer term when it comes to, among other things, support for the European Union. I also mentioned this in my introduction. Sure: Structural Funds will not be Columbus' egg for this, but I would like to call for the signal that Europe is also there to help countries with rottenness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u205	That, too, requires precision. Unfortunately, before European intervention, it was the point that Greece was not prepared to take difficult measures. Italy has also been through such a phase, in which the European Central Bank has actually kept Italy above the abyss for a while by making money available only if it has reformed. As a European Member State, you can never say: if your economy is in danger of falling through the ice, you will always be saved. You must always leave responsibility to the national government, which ultimately has the greatest influence on it. I agree with Mr Postema that what the Greek people have been through was very, very profound. You want to avoid that at all costs. The royal road there is making sure your grades are in order. They weren't. Then take the appropriate measures, even if they are painful. I have had to defend some painful measures in this Chamber. Well, that's part of your job as a politician. Then you don't get any applause on the street, but it's the only way to make sure your country doesn't get in deep trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u206	Mr. Secretary, I'm just gonna tell you just in case, I'm gonna suspend for dinner break at 7:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u207	Well, I certainly won't stop that. I'm coming to see Mr. Backer. I think some of his questions have already been answered. The first question was about defence cooperation and how I look at it. The second question was about how the Netherlands is committed to upholding the rule of law within the European Union. The third question was about migration and to what extent the agreements with Turkey are an example or copyable. Of that I indicated: not one-on-one, but as far as the lesson is concerned, you have to take action on the whole route. Mr Backer asked how the Netherlands could make a concrete contribution to the capacity of the services responsible for asylum applications in Greece, Bulgaria and Italy, for example. In the contacts we have with these countries, we offer this support. I have already indicated to Mrs Faber that we support Frontex and EASO when it comes to Greece. These are the organisations that actually do border surveillance. The Netherlands is also active in Bulgaria at the moment. Mr Backer asked the wider question about what space there is or what. must be for migration. This debate has just been held. Mr Backer also asked whether, in the Multiannual Financial Framework, you could include dealing with migrants as part of conditionality, the conditions for granting European funds. A route that we are exploring, for example, and which I am also talking about with European colleagues, is to make the commitment to integrating refugees financially possible through European funds. Along that route you reward the good countries and remember countries that do not make these efforts the resources. Mr Backer asked for a response to Mr Monti's report, which essentially makes two financial proposals: the first is on new own resources for the EU budget and the second is on the abolition of reductions for Member States. The cabinet is not in favour of new EU funds. This leads to an additional tax burden for citizens and/or companies who actually crave more space in the wallet. That is also the government's commitment, and new charges do not fit in. As far as discounts are concerned, the Netherlands believes that financial costs and benefits of EU membership should be balanced. Where a country is or is likely to become a very large payer on balance, that country should also be able to be relieved on the left or right. So when it comes to the discounts, I am not going to repeat Mr Monti. I'll be at Mrs. Strik's, if you don't mind, before dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u208	Mr. Backer is coming up with another question. So that might take a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u209	I'll take this as an invitation, Mr. Chairman. You know, I'm not sure I'll keep this for the second term. To be served four minutes before dinner break on a very important subject, namely own resources and the MFF, I don't really need that much. The Minister began with a speech on the jewelry of the bookkeeper's profession. He immediately illustrated this, when I was actually hoping to hear a much wider argument here. Mr President, I am going to keep this for the second term, because it is not going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u210	Thank you very much, Mr Backer. That's awesome. I'm gonna take a look at the clock. Minister, you may have thought you might be able to answer Mrs. Strik, but I don't think that's gonna work in two minutes. Or do you think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u211	I see Mrs. Strik nodding. Then I think it's wrong to try that. So we're gonna have a meal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u212	I think we should suspend for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u213	The next item is the continuation of the General European Reviews. Once again, I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u214	Thank you. I had come to the questions of Mrs Strik, who first asked a number of questions about the Union's foreign policy. She began by asking what the Cabinet thinks of Mr Juncker's proposal to move away from the principle of unanimity in a number of foreign policy areas. The proposal has been made orally, but there is no concrete Commission proposal yet, so I would like to wait for that specific proposal to come. We discussed the question about the Western Balkans in the event of interruption. Ms Strik asked whether the EU's involvement in both the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and Syria would be sufficient. First of all, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. As far as the government is concerned, it is important for the Union to hold united on to the need for a two-state solution. We therefore also support Mrs Mogherini, who, on behalf of the European Union, is working together with the US and the countries in the region to restore the peace process, however complicated it may be. Then Syria. The cabinet believes that the United Nations should remain a leader in resolving the conflict. In the Security Council, I have once again advocated this in detail. Unfortunately, this conflict is, of course, very much tied up, but the UN is the logical leading party there. In the last Foreign Affairs Council, we as the EU received the UN Envoy De Mistura. Of course, he is doing his utmost, but unfortunately he has not yet been able to take the steps that are actually necessary. This does not mean that the EU does not play any role at all. We believe that there is now no role in reconstruction unless there is a credible political process in Syria, but the Brussels II conference on Syria will be held in April. This will include not only the humanitarian situation, but also the political process and support from neighbouring countries in the reception of refugees. Then Mrs Strik asked about the Cotonou Agreement. She asked whether it would not have a negative impact on the balance to also draw attention to migration. The current Cotonou Treaty also contains provisions on, for example, the admission of own nationals. That should be superfluous because international law already imposes that obligation, but unfortunately we have to observe in practice that many countries do not comply with that obligation. Given the great importance of preventing such large irregular migration and trafficking in human beings, it is logical that both the causes of migration and the fight against trafficking in human beings and the return of people who are unjustly invoking asylum status are part of discussions on a follow-up to the Cotonou Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u215	The current clause to take back its own citizens is understandable and does not do so much harm, but I asked for attention to be paid to top priority migration within those Cotonou agreements. That is quite different from the fact that there is a clause somewhere that states must take back their own citizens. What I read and hear is that the EU puts migration very much at the forefront and could possibly be at the expense of other goals. I asked for a response from the Minister. That is quite different from what he is now saying about a takeover clause. Maybe he can go into that after all. So it is not just countries of origin but also countries that are being treated as transit countries and are being asked to take or stop people, migrants, from us on our way to Europe. Maybe the Minister can go into that after all. How does this relate to other objectives, such as sustainable development, human rights and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u216	Yes, but I hope Mrs Strik will allow me to address the point that a take-back agreement is not so bad. I think it is bad enough that such a foundation of international law, namely that a country takes back its own nationals, still needs to be explicitly agreed and, moreover, with little result, because that does not help to deal with this migration problem either. Then that is a very big issue. I know that Mrs Strik and the cabinet differ on some points, but we cannot disagree on the fact that there is a great deal of human suffering associated with human trafficking and the unjustified hopes of people who often live and put at risk in Europe. Such an important phenomenon is part of the Cotonou Agreement in this case, but also of other international contacts. These large human flows are one of the greatest international societal developments that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u217	I asked how the EU puts migration as its main objective in foreign policy. The EU has many other goals. The question is: what happens to those other goals if you set that one goal first? That is actually more of an EU interest, stopping migration. Of course, trafficking in human beings needs to be tackled significantly, but the question is whether the EU's dimension in this is too one-sided. So it's not just about taking back our own citizens. It is also about ensuring that third countries, transit countries, take responsibility for refugees, migrants and take back. That's different. Then the question is: what happens to all the other goals we have as the EU?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u218	They do not disappear, of course, because both EU and national policies realise that migration has a number of causes. The cabinet's migration letter, as well as the EU's policy, therefore contains measures that, indeed, are aimed at trafficking in human beings, but also measures to strengthen both the rule of law and the economic position of the countries of origin. It has never been said that these other important factors would no longer play a role. Mrs Strik then went into the situation in the detention centres in Syria. There is indeed a very undesirable situation there. That is all the more reason why the EU and the Cabinet are working to tackle the flow of migration, trafficking in human beings and smuggling in a number of places, because these detention centres are an example of the degrading situation that arises if you do not tackle that trade. When it comes to the relationship with the European countries that we have concerns about the rule of law, Mrs Strik asked whether those countries are really being addressed by the Member States or by the Commission alone. She even wanted an honest answer. I have already honestly said that, when I was still responsible for security and justice, I spoke to colleagues in Hungary and Poland. I will continue to do so, because that is very important for the reasons we have discussed in detail before. Then Mrs Strik asked about the desirability of peer review when it comes to the rule of law. A motion for a resolution has been tabled and adopted in the House of Representatives. I have promised that I will see how this can be implemented without it becoming a heavy structure at the top of existing structures, for example from the Council of Europe. So, in consultation with other European countries, I am going to see how we can make a decent, not top-heavy contribution to this. Ms Strik also asked about the transparency of decision-making in the European Union and the COSAC and EU-Ombudsman reports. I have already indicated that the Netherlands has been pursuing a policy of greater transparency for years. Within the Union, we generally find support and have also produced non-papers in the countries of Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Slovenia and Sweden. We hope that the COSAC report will give a new impetus to this. I know that other European parliaments are involved in this. It would also, of course, help to encourage fellow MEPs to be behind their governments on this issue. The Netherlands has therefore voted in favour of a number of amendments, but these are not all countries that have participated in the COSAC report along the parliamentary route. I already indicated that the COSAC report is on the table, but along that route we could pull both sides of the rope.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u219	Thanks for the answer. It is very nice that the government is advocating greater transparency, but is the current practice now in line with Union law? I asked the same question. Is it only desirable to make it more transparent or should it actually be mandatory under Union law. How does the Minister view the current situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u220	There is a recent ruling by the European Court of Justice in the Capitani case, which states that this is a trialogue that should in this case give the European Parliament greater openness. I have to wait and see whether Parliament is going to appeal, but in the current state of the proceedings, the Capitani case underlines that there is more room for transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u221	This Capitani case does indeed talk a bit more about the trilogue, but always confirms the starting point: in principle transparency, unless, and serious reasons. But the Council has, of course, already been capitulated on this in accessing for Europe and a number of other matters. The Minister now says that there is room for more transparency, but is there no need for more transparency? I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u222	I'm afraid that's a legal battle I can't add much to. Again, there is no difference of opinion between your Chamber and the Cabinet. The problem is that at present we do not find enough European countries to take these steps. I think that's where the key is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u223	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u224	Yeah, finally. It would help Parliament if the government acknowledged that this was a Union-wide obligation. That can also help us in this fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u225	I do not believe that in all honesty, because the problem really is not with the Dutch Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u226	The Minister is right that it would be a good thing if this were to be followed up within COSAC and if national parliaments were to appeal to their own national governments, as we do here. I can reassure the Minister that such an initiative is under way and there is probably a letter to COSAC from the Lower House, but probably also from the Upper Chamber. This is without prejudice to the fact that this is mainly about the role of the government. It was announced by the Minister that it was scheduled for the Council working group to meet on 26 April. My follow-up question to the debate is whether it will also be on the agenda of the next European summit, i.e. at the level of the Heads of Government. That would help the case, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u227	I don't know. We'll end up in the same discussion. It is not the Dutch government that would have difficulty with this. But there are quite a few countries in Europe. This gives the impression that we would have a difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u228	We have no difference of opinion. If it is allowed, Mr President, then the question is simply very concrete, finally, on this point...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u229	That is allowed, Mr Van Apeldoorn, but finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u230	The question then is what is the concrete commitment of the Dutch cabinet to get this on the agenda of the summit, for example. Can we get an insight into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u231	One step at a time. Again, we really want to go the same way, but I also want to assess what is reasonably feasible in every European process. Unfortunately, so far few countries have wanted to make a move. Then Mrs Strik entered the Copenhagen Conference. First of all, she asked why the margin of appreciation is once again included in the declaration. This is because it is an important part of the Court and the application of the ECHR. I do not see that anything special or conflicting would happen if this essential part was not brought to the attention of the House. About Protocol No 16 asked Mrs Strik if I could assess the impact of this, including on the budget. I can't exactly estimate it, but the use of the protocol is to reduce the workload. Following the entry into force of the Protocol, it will be evaluated whether it works in practice. One of the practical problems faced by the Court was the heavy workload. Then Mrs. Strik asked why the last concept was not seen. This is because the Treaty negotiations are conducted confidentially under Article 21 of the Statute. Derogation from this requirement requires the agreement of all States Parties. I have already indicated that Mr Grapperhaus will go to the conference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u232	An interruption, Mrs. Strik. One, can you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u233	Thanks for the answer. The question of margin of appreciation, of course, was raised in the context of the concept of 5 February, but also in the context of the earlier Brighton Declaration which had already led to it being put into the preamble. What message does this send to the Committee of Ministers by putting this emphasis on it again? That's one. The other point is that I was not talking so much about Protocol No. 16 January is that I referred to the fact that the Brussels Declaration called on countries to make a voluntary extra contribution. My question was how things stand with that. Is it not time to include a slightly less voluntary contribution in the new declaration? Finally, I had a question about political dialogue: should we want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u234	When it comes to margin or appreciation, I think it sends a correct signal. It has always been part of the procedure of the Court that there is a margin of appreciation for the Member States. It is also an essential part of the procedure of the Court. In the light of Mrs Strik's last question, it is true from the outset that the Council of Ministers sets out the framework within which the Court operates. It is in fact the interpretation of the trias politicians at the level of the European Court. There's nothing special about that either. How else would that be? At the moment, the cabinet does not intend to provide additional financial resources, but rather to allow the new procedure, which should lead to a more flexible and therefore less costly procedure, to be carried out. I come to Mr Kuiper. He asked for a response to the Franco-German axis. I have already given it because Mr Knapen asked for it. Mr Kuiper then also asked for a review of Mr Juncker's scenarios. Those scenarios were part of a discussion launched by the Commission last year. In this context, a number of possible routes were outlined. The most important reaction of the Dutch cabinet is the route given by the cabinet through the Prime Minister in his Berlin speech, so we do not opt for one of Mr Juncker's scenarios, but explicitly for our own Dutch interpretation, because we also believe that you can achieve much more by coming up with ideas yourself than just saying yes or no to the proposals of others. We have been asked how the cabinet looks at a multi-speed Europe. This is, of course, the case in a number of areas. That applies to EMU, and that applies to the Schengen area. It is generally a second choice, because it is nicer to come to an agreement with the whole of the European Union than with some of it, but practice has shown that it can work well in a number of situations. Mr Kuiper also asked to discuss the consultations on the future of Europe and the role of the Chamber. At the initiative of President Macron, the European Council decided to hold these consultations, to look in each Member State at what is living among the population in relation to Europe. The cabinet considers it logical that such a question should be guided through parliament. That's why I sent you that letter. It seems logical to me that the First and Second Chambers should consult and also take the lead in their implementation. The cabinet is, of course, willing to provide support in all possible ways. I can imagine that there will be a combination of some debates and hearings, but that knowledge institutions, for example, will also be used. The Cabinet is happy to provide all the support it needs, but considers it most logical in the distribution of responsibilities that the lead lies with Parliament. I hope I have answered the questions about defence cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u235	Can I also ask why the cabinet thinks it is logical for the Chamber to do this? It is an initiative from the Council. Governments are also called upon to do so. So I do not quite understand why this cannot be organised from the cabinet. Are you happy with the consultation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u236	We support the consultation process, it is a Council decision, but expressing the feelings of the people is traditionally the task of parliament. That is why we thought it logical to ask Parliament to take the lead, with the supporting role.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u237	Then what do you propose? That as a parliament we go to employers, workers, trade unions and civil organisations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u238	I can imagine, but then I'm going to sort out a little bit, that there's going to be a combination. I am thinking, for example, of hearings. I also think it would be wise to use knowledge institutions as well. The Social and Cultural Planning Office has a long history when it comes to publishing, for example in the citizen's perspective, from how the population as a whole, but also specifically in the background, thinks about European integration, for example. So a combination of those surgeries makes sense to me. It seems to me less logical for the cabinet to lead the executive in the trias politicians, while the parliament is the most logical.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u239	Finally, Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u240	When these scenarios were presented from the European Commission, it has also been said that European citizens should speak to each other about them. Now it comes from the circle of the Council. You say that Prime Minister Rutte has already responded to the scenarios and that we do not opt for any of those scenarios. What the hell is going on here? Will the European Council now trump the European Commission with its own consultation round? Then where do you see this whole approach and approach of the Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u241	If you're consulting the population, it doesn't make sense in my opinion to frame that in a number of scenarios. It may well be that a large part of the population says: I do not recognize myself in those scenarios, but I would like this or that. I don't think you do justice to really wanting to consult the population when you frame that in a few scenarios. Mr Kuiper had questions about the Brexit. I hope that I have already answered it in response to Mr Schaap's speech. He asked whether there would be bilateral agreements between the Netherlands and the UK. That's not the bet. The commitment is really to create a new relationship with the UK, united with the 27 who remain. Then I come to Mrs Teunissen. She asked about the appointment of Selmayr. I hope I have already answered that question in response to Mr Van Apeldoorn's speech. She also asked about the common agricultural policy within the Multiannual Financial Framework. The cabinet's commitment is aimed at reforming the Multiannual Financial Framework. The aim is also to focus agricultural policy more on areas where the market is not doing enough, such as climate, environment, biodiversity and food safety challenges. The common agricultural policy should therefore become more performance-oriented in these areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u242	Thanks for the answer. My speech was actually about the huge amount of CO emissions from livestock farming and the use of agricultural subsidies as a steering tool to promote the transition from animal to plant proteins. Similarly, it would also contribute to achieving the climate objectives. My specific question was: does the Minister see any possibility of linking the food transition to the climate policy envisaged by the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u243	As Mrs Teunissen knows, an opinion from the Council on the Environment and Infrastructure has just been issued. That's really just received. Mr Schouten has the lead in this. I'd like to give her a chance to respond to that. Therefore, I cannot include this in the debate on the MFF. Mrs Teunissen also asked about the use of CAP funds for bulls used in bullfighting. It is not known to me, to be honest, whether it is. I am afraid that I will not be able to respond to that in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u244	In any case, in 2013 the House of Representatives acknowledged that it is. Furthermore, in 2015, the European Parliament adopted an amendment that indicated its intention to end the bullfighting subsidies. These subsidies are part of agricultural subsidies. Now the European Commission says that there are no official bull-fighting subsidies because there are no criteria within the agricultural policy. As I have said, this cannot be a reason not to meet the wishes of the House of Representatives and the European Parliament by saying: we want to stop this subsidy. It is now very unclear, it is very difficult to determine how high that amount is. But that is why we now have the revision of the common agricultural policy. It is then possible to apply certain criteria to these agricultural subsidies. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister: does he see the possibility of strengthening that 2013 motion and the 2015 amendment by also working from the government to impose those specific conditions in the common agricultural policy, thus excluding bullfighting subsidies? After all, this is the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u245	I really can't judge that so quickly. Again, I wasn't aware of the fact that it is. Mrs Teunissen referred to previous motions. Whether you could intervene on that, if that's the case, there comes a question of implementation that I can't judge. I don't know if you can check the allocation and control of subsidies to see if an animal ends up in a slaughterhouse or bullfighting. I can't judge that so quickly. There is a limit to the foreign minister's knowledge. Then I come to Mr Van Dijk. He asked for a terminal of EU integration. I can understand that question against the background of the ancient formulation of the ever closing union. The cabinet has indicated that we do not think that this is a logical objective. But that doesn't mean we're going to change this by another equally concise sentence. We have identified in our strategy the areas in which we need more intensive cooperation. However, in the debate I have also set out a large number of examples, which I do not think make any sense. It is precisely this careful demarcation between what the EU should and should not do that does not lend itself to a phrase that would be as short as 'ever closing union', which we do not feel for. The Western Balkans questions I have answered, I hope. Then there is the question of what the EU is doing to stop anti-Semitism. Since 2015, there has been a coordinator within the EU for the fight against anti-Semitism. The European Parliament has also adopted a resolution. The Fundamental Rights Agency collects data from Member States on anti-Semitic violence. This is therefore addressed along a number of routes. Then there is the question of how the Union is shaping the protection of life. This is stated in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and in the European Convention on Human Rights. This is thus guaranteed along a number of routes. With regard to Israel and the Middle East peace process, Mr Van Dijk asked for optimum coordination with the United States. I do not want to give the impression that there is a constant division between the US and the European Union. It would be wise to coordinate as much as possible. However, this has not happened around subsidies for UNRWA, the UN organisation that houses Palestinian refugees. Nor will we follow the United States when it comes to the establishment of the embassy in Jerusalem. We believe it is very important that both sides of the Middle East conflict are addressed to those issues that we do not agree with and are encouraged in the search for a solution along the path of the two-state solution. On cooperation with Iran, Mr Van Dijk indicated his opposition to close cooperation. Iran is a country that the government has a lot of concerns about. But also a country where the Netherlands has a lot of concerns must have open lines with our country in order to convey that concern and try to influence the situation. Of course, very topical as far as Iran is concerned, the question is whether it will be possible to extend the US sanctions in May as far as the nuclear agreement with Iran is concerned. There are also concerns about Iran's role in the region, and about the missile programme, but it is precisely when there are so many concerns that it is important that we express our concerns in Iran. Then the question about the Brexit. Mr Van Dijk specifically asked whether the departments are making plans and whether we are coordinating them. The answer to both questions is yes. It makes sense to make the plans per department because they are very technical and professionally specific. Think of the customs plans, or of the Food and War Authority. Foreign affairs co-ordinates contacts with business and civil society organisations in order to identify the bottlenecks that are seen or expected there, so that preparation does indeed take place as well as possible, however complex it may be. I have, I hope, answered the questions about European defence cooperation. Finally, I come to Mr Ten Hoeve. He indicated that the disappearance of the United Kingdom, if I understood him correctly, inevitably leads to a higher Multiannual Financial Framework. I have already indicated that I always think it is the responsibility of a government, whether at European, national or municipal level, to deal with taxpayers' money in an economical manner, and first of all to see whether it can be reversed or cut back. We really see a lot of opportunities within the European budget. We've reported them, too. On the issue of refugees, Mr Ten Hoeve asked how countries that have indicated that they do not want to receive refugees in the context of redistribution were treated. When reforming the financial framework, the Netherlands and a number of other countries now find it logical that the costs of integrating refugees should also be reimbursed from European funds and thus not benefit countries that do not cooperate. Mr Ten Hoeve also asked about efforts on the rule of law in Poland and Hungary. I have indicated that we are playing an active role in this. Then there was also a question about the rule of law that I could not quite place. It was about appointed judges, but I assume it was about Poland. Then I've already answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u246	I thought this would be completely clear to everyone, but that is not the case. There were other speakers who did not realize that I was talking about Spain where the problem is that a fundamental political issue is being dismissed by the central government with a refusal of dialogue and the imprisonment of politicians with large supporters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u247	Then I was not the only one who did not immediately understand that it was about Spain, but the Dutch government sees no role for itself there. It's an internal Spanish matter. Mr. Chairman. With this I hope to have answered the questions in the first term. I am looking forward to colleague Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u248	Thank you. You can look with expectation, but I give the floor to the Minister of Finance. I call the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u249	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thank you also to those Members who have raised a number of questions in my policy area. I realize that I am not much more than an figurant in the debate, because Mr Blok, with many of the Members, has not solved all the world problems if not, then at least touched. He has been to Chad, Israel, Palestine, the United States, Russia, China and many other places. He talked about geopolitics, human rights, nuclear weapons and polygamy. Insofar as I had not already fully mingled the government's position on the last point, I immediately did so today, even if only because Mr Blok began to look very deeply at me on this subject. I don't think there was a reason for that, but I'll let you name it anyway. Mr. Chairman. Let me first make a few general comments and then answer the questions put to me by the Members. I have recently noticed that, in the European debate, though not in this Chamber, I hasten to say that the framing, with a word of this time, is as follows. Someone in the debate on Europe is a naive europhile that would deliver the Netherlands to all kinds of evil plans of the European Commission, or the government would be all alone, have no contact with anyone and be doomed to an unwise entrance. I call it because it does so little justice to the complexity of the issues we are dealing with and does so little justice to the efforts of the Dutch Government. I would like to say this very emphatically here. I have said it many times and I would like to repeat it here: as a cabinet, we are very committed to Europe. We are also committed to the EU and we are very committed to the euro. We in the cabinet, as well as myself personally, are very motivated to play a role in the discussions that are now taking place on a lot of these important issues that relate to the future of Europe. This, if I may put it this way, concerns the old issues that we thought we had already agreed on, such as the Stability and Growth Pact. It also concerns a lot of new issues. Mr Blok has talked in detail about the MFF, but of course it is also about the banking union, the EMF and a few other issues. These are all subjects that we really look at with a positive basic attitude, but on which we do have our views in terms of order and conditionality. It's important to start the story that way for once. I am referring in general to EMU. I have already said that the cabinet is committed to the EU and the euro. That is because we believe that the Netherlands is better off within the EU and with the euro as a single currency. The Union has removed exchange rate risks, which promote trade within and outside EMU, and EMU has a stable price trend, which is a prerequisite for sustainable economic growth. At the same time, and I think we all see this, the euro area has had a difficult period with a credit crisis and a debt crisis. It is important to separate these two crises. They have had a huge impact on citizens and on employment. Mrs Strik and others referred to this. The crises have also led to concerns about the EU and the euro. I understand those concerns, although fortunately they are a lot less at the moment. The reason why these concerns are less is, of course, because of the economic situation and I shall say a little bit more about this in a moment, but certainly also about the fact that the banking sector has been fundamentally reformed with the establishment of the banking union. Budgetary rules have been strengthened, as have the approach to macroeconomic imbalances. With the ESM, a safety net has been put in place in case countries get into trouble. I will answer a number of questions on each of these subjects. Finally, in the introduction, the budget deficit in the euro area has fallen from over 6% of GDP in 2010 to 1.5% in 2016 and has declined further thereafter. It is true, however, that Mrs Strik referred to the fact that unemployment is still too high, although it is now falling very steadily. Cyprus, Ireland, Portugal and Spain have completed financial support programmes. Well, that's basic. They have done so more quickly and appropriately than some of us might have expected a few years ago. They also generally show good growth rates. Mrs Strik asked if I believe that EMU is now ready. I think I'm quoting her literally now. That is not, of course, yet. There are still major challenges in many areas. I will deal with that in a moment. I will say a few more about the Stability and Growth Pact in a moment. The single fact is always a dangerous concept, but the mere fact that 12 out of 19 countries are still above 60% in debt is an indication that there is still a lot of work to be done. So there are still concerns, but fortunately there is also a lot going well. I would like to make a few comments on coalition formation, which are in line with what Mr Blok has already exchanged with the Chamber. My cautious pattern recognition, if I may put it this way, is that the wild is complicated in Europe to allow two countries to agree on one subject, let alone to agree with a group of eight on a subject or six, especially when there is no immediate pressure. I am pleased that the coalition with the northern countries has succeeded. At the same time, it is only a cautious beginning. It is also a cautious beginning in my attempt to build many broad coalitions. Mr Knapen asked for that, Mrs Strik asked for it, and I also believe Mr Schaap. Let me mention a few specific points. I am talking very intensively with the Benelux countries, both with the three of us and one-on-one with the colleagues of Belgium and Luxembourg. I have been there, especially to discuss all these issues in great detail. The same goes, of course, for Germany. I have often said that Germany has been, and will remain, our main ally in many of these areas. I had very intensive contact with my colleague Altmaier during that short period of time he was there. I met Mr Schultz at the time when he was no longer the mayor of Hamburg, but half an hour later he would report to the Kanzleramt where he would be sworn in, in order to articulate immediately that I would very much like to hang out with Germany. I have also gone to a number of countries where this may be less obvious, such as Spain and Portugal. I have also entered into dialogue with others, precisely because sometimes the misunderstanding is that it would be about being right. But it is very much about being right in Europe. Building coalitions and finding common ground is crucial there. Of course, France also plays a very important role in this. On many of these issues, my colleague Bruno Le Maire and I have had several exchanges of views. I suspect that next week I will speak with him again in France on these issues. Then I come to the Stability and Growth Pact. I would also like to make a few general comments on this and then answer some of the questions. In spring 2011, 23 countries were still in the so-called collective arm of the Stability and Growth Pact. In the meantime, there are two more, namely Spain and France. On the basis of figures from the French Statistical Office, many will have read that in the newspaper recently too. The French budget deficit is now below 3%. That too is really excellent news. Although Italy is in the preventive arm of the SGP, there is, of course, a very high level of public debt. There are also wider reasons to worry about the Italian budget. At the same time, and I say this even after mentioning the good news, it is important, now that we have the economic wind in the sails, that countries continue to build buffers. There is still a great deal of work to be done in this respect, let me be very honest about that. You can see that the mood is decreasing in some countries. That is worrying, especially when you consider that many of the good results shown by all those budgets in all those countries are largely driven by the economic situation. It is usually a mix of the economic situation and reform, but I dare say that the economic situation has played a very important role in many European countries. Now is the time to move forward and continue with reforms, especially in those countries where there are well over 60%. Can there be further improvements in the Stability and Growth Pact? Yes, it can be simplified further and it can be applied more predictablely. Enforcement is not always easy either. Mr Schaap was right to ask whether it would be the case that large countries would be spared. Mr Backer sighed that some might be doing a bit unkindly about the Commission. Although I will not be guilty of the latter, I think it is right to note that it should be the Commission and the European Fiscal Board who should act together as the guardian of those rules which the European Member States have agreed with each other. There's really room for improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u250	The Minister presents a full analysis of the euro area economy and reflects the blessings of the Stability and Growth Pact. This is a story that I know of, but I would like to make a comment on it and ask two brief questions about it. The Minister states that the average budget deficit in the euro area has fallen, and that is positive. The question I have to the Minister is whether it would not have been the case that we would have had those deficit reductions sooner if we had created more room for growth in those countries. This could have been done by different means, for example by not making such extreme cuts. The Minister is now talking about building buffers, house in order, saving in good times for bad times. We know that story. But if the minister looks back at the causes of the euro crisis, then there were countries like Spain, Portugal and Ireland, Greece is a separate story that had lower deficits and lower national debt than, for example, Germany, sometimes they even had a surplus, which then went completely wrong. What was the predictive indicator for the euro crisis? That was not the budget deficit, but the trade deficit, which was very high in Germany and the Netherlands. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u251	On that first point: one of the people present, whom I will not mention here by name, has sometimes referred to this as 'if-history' and concluded that you should not be guilty of this as a politician. I take that advice to heart. Mr Van Apeldoorn's second point is, of course, a serious question, in which it is important to distinguish between the three different countries he mentions. In general, these buffers have helped those countries. Denmark, for example, has benefited greatly in this respect, and I am speaking to my Danish colleague just a moment after the fact that there was a very low debt there. It was precisely this buffer that was used to avoid major problems, especially as a non-euro country. I do not think that now is the time to go into the details very much in each of these three countries. But in Spain, for example, the very pro-cyclical housing market has played a major role. Secondly, I would like to introduce myself to Mr Van Apeldoorn's first question: how would it have been with that very procyclical Spanish housing market and with all the other problems that Spain has had in the past, for the Spanish economy if they had had a deficit of, say, 90% or 100%? Would the problems have been bigger or smaller and would it have been more difficult or easier? Then my analysis is that it would really have been considerably harder for Spain to do the right things and regain confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u252	Mr Van Apeldoorn, finally at this point. This is your second interruption about the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u253	Short, Mr. Chairman. The first question was a serious question, because, of course, it is about how to deal with such a situation and how, for example, to allow countries to grow again and to reduce deficits, and whether to do so with sensible macroeconomic policies or not. That is not a 'what if' history, but I agree with the Minister: if Spain had been in the situation where it had also had a national debt of 100% of GDP, it would have been even more problematic. But the other way around, you can't say that having buffers is enough. That is why my question to the Minister is how he addresses the problem of those other imbalances in the euro area that we have seen. Again, countries that did have those buffers did not get into trouble, for example, because they had a surplus on the balance of payments. The Minister doesn't go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u254	Then we'll have to separate two more things. What Mr Van Apeldoorn and I agree on is that buffers are of course not panacea in themselves. There are many situations in which it helps enormously and in which you could even argue that countries like Spain and Italy benefit even more than countries like the Netherlands and Germany to build buffers in good times. Mr Van Apeldoorn then says: it has to do with the trade balance, which I really do not consider to be a part of the banking problem, for example in Spain, but also with late maintenance, for example in the area of reforms in a country such as Italy. It is not for nothing that Italy has not been a programme country and is now one of the countries in the euro area that has had the most difficult time. So it's a complex framework of factors. My simple analysis is that buffers are not panacea, but they are very helpful and that countries should not be tempted to let that logic disappear again. Mr. Chairman. This was the result of the Stability and Growth Pact, and I also answered Mr Schaap's question, and I think that Mr Backer also said a few things about the Commission and the need to keep the agreements we have already made, precisely by the Commission. That is perhaps a final remark on this subject: it is sometimes pretended that the Netherlands would stick to those rules from a kind of Dutch logic of rules are rules. I admit immediately that many, and myself sometimes, tend to think: pacta sunt servanda, a deal is a deal. But the deeper logic is, of course, what we are really concerned about. The underlying logic is that it helps to build buffers and that it helps to reform and to go further in this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u255	We have discussed this issue before and we know each other's views there. There is an inconsistency in the Commission's approach. Actually, that's been going on all day. On the one hand, it is said that the Commission should not be too political. But at the same time I hear the Minister say: yes, but the Commission must keep the treaties. We know that everything the Commission does is political when we talk about it. The problem is different in each country, but there are parties and political leaders in each country who take a vacation of responsibility, have something else to do or do not want anything else, which means that the Commission must act. They'd have to have authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u256	I agree with the latter. My impression is not that it is lacking. My experience over the last few months fits in with the experience of many of my predecessors and other members of previous Cabinets, who have come home from a cold carnival, where the question was what was agreed on the Stability and Growth Pact, and what is the translation of these agreements or the failure to comply with them in practice. For this reason, a number of years have also been chosen to give the European Fiscal Board a role. I think that is an important step forward. The Netherlands has been in full support of this. But in the case of the European Fiscal Board, the problem is that there is a significant dependence on the European Commission. I share Mr Backer's view that, if the Commission is there, it would be wise in general if politicians did not choose the path of the least resistance by shooting at the Commission alone. At the same time, however, I believe that we, as Member States, can expect the Commission to be the ideal forum for enforcing those rules that apply to the European Union as a whole. There is, let me put it very carefully, room for improvement. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the EMF. Mrs Faber and Mrs Strik asked for that. In this context, Mr Knapen referred to the importance of mechanisms alongside the IMF. Let me start by saying that the ESM in the crisis was an institution that worked very well and did very good work in that very complex situation which was also to a large extent terra incognita. As a result of the euro summit, President Tusk concluded that finance ministers should focus on the issues most commonly agreed over the next six months. In his observation, these are the Banking Union and the future of the ESM. It is always dangerous to say that these are the issues on which there is most agreement, because that is not the same as enough agreement. My cautious observation is that there are still different views on these two issues in the eurogroup among the finance ministers. But let me at least make a few comments on what the Netherlands and the Dutch Government think we should do. As a cabinet, we are in principle in favour of developing the ESM in an EMF. Some of the members of the House of Representatives have said that the EMF label may not be quite the right label, but apart from that you could further improve the ESM; let me put it this way. Because the European commitment to support programmes is currently in the hands of several institutions: the ESM, the Commission and, to some extent, the ECB. They have different and sometimes overlapping roles in support programmes, and this does not benefit the decision-making of those support programmes. The Court will recall that the European Court of Auditors was particularly critical of the first phase and the coordination issue when it came to Greece. That is what we in the cabinet would like to see different. We are therefore also in favour of developing the ESM in an EMF. Such an EMF would therefore be able to negotiate, finance and monitor aid programmes on its own, as this will give you a more effective whole. I would like to make two more comments on that EMF. The first is that, as far as we are concerned, this should remain a matter for the Member States. Secondly, we would find it very sensible if the EMF were to include a so-called SDRM, a Sovereign Debt Restructuring Mechanism. The logic behind it is obvious that countries that knock on the door also look first and foremost at those that can make a contribution in their own country. Read: those who have purchased bonds from the country. Such an SDRM also increases the effectiveness of the emergency fund and reduces the use of the emergency fund's public funds. Read: the public funds provided by other countries and other taxpayers. Mr. Chairman. In this context, Mrs Strik asked for democratic control. So there is no doubt about that in the cabinet's proposal, which lies primarily with the national parliaments. Mr. Chairman. Finally, one final comment on the SDRM. There are countries that are also very much in favour of the SDRM, but for an automatic SDRM. This means that every country that gets into trouble and knocks on the ESM automatically enters an SDRM procedure. The Dutch government does not want that. We think that you should be more pragmatic about this and assess the case for case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u257	If I listen carefully to him, does the Minister exclude that there could also be a Community solution? Versions are indicated from different sides. I also agree with Mrs Strik's point on democratic control. Yes, it goes through the national Member States, but you yourself indicated the complexity of the environment in which all this takes place. It is also well known that the European Parliament believes that this should be resolved within the Community system. We also have an opinion from the Council of State, which has not been formulated as such, but in which it has been given: could it not also be thought of a form in which you have a board of governors, as in the IMF? Are the two points I am referring to compatible with the thoughts of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u258	Yes, where the fiscal capacity sometimes runs through this discussion. I do not think that Mr Backer mentions this, but that is a subject on which the European Parliament has more or less similar views. We believe that the EMF or ESM are such essential issues that it is essential to ensure maximum support from the Member States. That is one of the elements that has worked well, including in the crisis. See also the report of the European Court of Auditors. So the fact that that large group of countries had to decide in that board of governance in the context of the ESM is not seen afterwards as a weakness that has led to delay or suboptimal decision-making. It is true here that you can and should want to do it at the level of the Member States. Nor can I see any logic or greater potential for improvement if you put this in the hands of, for example, the Commission, if I am honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u259	It is the strength of the Minister of Finance to be able and able to deal with highly political issues in relatively technical explanations. This has traditionally been the Commission's method of neutralizing things and thus moving forward step by step. So all the admiration for that, but I do have a question that is a little more political in character. The cabinet says about the EMF: we agree with it, we welcome it. Then you expect all kinds of enthusiastic additions to indicate how you do it. But then you read in the letter: we are very much in favour of the European Monetary Fund, but we are opposed to new decision-making procedures, we are opposed to excluding the IMF, we are opposed to Commission control, we are opposed to buying up primary sovereign debt and we are opposed to letting go of the intergovernmental nature. The joke is that I individually agree with all these observations. Only when you hear this, you don't have the feeling that the audience is being taken into account in something beautiful that has to be built up and where a compromise at the end of the ride is also a victory. You actually get the feeling that we à contrecoeur should go in that direction step by step, because otherwise we are in our shirt. That is the question and also a little hesitation I have on this approach, despite all the admiration for how the Minister neutralizes this with a proper technical story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u260	That's the kind of compliment where you wonder if you should actually consider whether the compliment should immediately become yours. I'm gonna go back to school on that one tonight. I very much agree with what Mr Knapen says about the story you tell outdoors and the story you tell indoors in the Netherlands. Whatever agreements the cabinet is going to make in Europe, it must then also be able to explain the logic, the importance and the Dutch importance of these agreements. I'd like to be available for that. That is exactly why I started to oppose that framing that I have so much objection to, and I wanted to mention why the Netherlands has so much to gain and, in a literal sense, has to earn in Europe. I have done this much shorter than I have done recently in Germany, for example, and much shorter than in some of the exchanges with the House of Representatives. But I do, because it's really an en-en-story. If we then end up with these subjects, it is of course nice that Mr Knapen is actually very much in agreement with me at the level of individual measures. Again, the EMF is an excellent idea. There really are a number of elements in that that we should also want as the Netherlands and in which we should want to take the others with us. But at the same time there are points where Mr Knapen is apparently convinced that we should not, or not in a certain way, do them. That is also our belief. It seems to me to be the wrong logic to abandon these points for the sake of the image. Something similar is happening in the banking union in a slightly different form. Maybe I can also say something about this, not particularly to Mr Knapen but to several questioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u261	Then there is the question of how it is possible that those points which you have just mentioned and which Mr Knapen have endorsed are on the table in this way. Could this have something to do with the fact that we, even in the case of something as important as the EMF, entered too late and did not have enough of our own involvement and participation in the design?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u262	In all honesty, I don't think so. Of course, I can only oversee the last six months. This discussion has been going on for a long time. My observation is that the previous cabinet too has been very proactive in this regard and in the context of Dutch interests. I will not exaggerate, but I have entered into a dialogue with many European colleagues on many of these issues. The same applies to the key issues for the Foreign Minister and, without doubt, to the Prime Minister. The idea behind the position paper of the eight, but also behind the exchange of views with colleagues in the Benelux and the exchange of views I had with a number of countries that would like to join the dinner with the northern countries next time, because they agree with a lot of topics, is each time to want to be proactively part of the future. However, it is often about the measure and the "how." Many countries still agree on the "what" at the highest abstraction level. I think it is right that, if you then go into the funnel and look at that EMF, you then wonder what is wise, what you do want and what you do not want. I would be doing the Dutch citizen a disservice if, because of the fact that we are getting the EMF, I were no longer concerned and I was no longer concerned about the issues underlying it. A somewhat longer answer, but my impression is not that we are late at the ball.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u263	In that sense, it is important for my group because, having heard in the first instance a number of other groups, we were concerned whether we were not in the competition reactive when it comes to the European stage. It is, of course, about the further design and development of EMU. We have had a number of discussions on defence and asylum policy and so on. In any case, from my group, there is a need to encourage the cabinet itself to act primarily proactively and constructively, including on the details, and to be in the vanguard of these talks and not just at the back with the heels in the sand, as we sometimes find. Then you probably won't get your fill in the end and you'll have a bad story to the home front as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u264	Both points very much agree. We must defend what we agree on in Brussels or anywhere else in Europe. I very much agree with that. I also very much agree with that proactive attitude. But at the same time, and it is important to name that anyway, it is then important, subject by subject, to determine what you must want. I will say a little more about the banking union later. The idea in some Member States is: let us speed up a lot of these issues, no matter what we do. My pattern recognition is that we in Europe have sometimes wanted things too quickly and have been too easy in admitting countries to the euro or believing in the budgetary figures that countries have provided. What I want to avoid coûte que coûte is that we are creating something that may feel good and feels like a big step in the short term, but which we are wondering in the next crisis how we could have designed it that way. That would be extremely unfortunate. I want to go for the content and the precision of the content. If I can do that quickly, I'm very much in favour of it, but I'd rather have that quality and that content than the speed of the big gesture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u265	I have a question about the EMF. Is it intended that, in future, we will also make loans outside EU Member States?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u266	What exactly does Mrs Faber mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u267	I mean that countries that are not members of the European Union can receive loans from the EMF.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u268	To be honest, I haven't thought about that for a moment. I cannot imagine that, but I will see who said something about it in the past. I shall come back to that in the second term, if necessary. For the record, the EMF and the ESM were intended for European countries in the crisis. It seems so unlikely to me that it doesn't ring a bell, but if I had to add another nuance to it, I would do so in second term. About the Banking Union. To avoid misunderstandings, let me start with the broader context. The previous Dutch government and this Dutch government too say that we are in favour of the banking union. You know that this banking union consists of three pillars: supervisory, resolution and EDIS, the deposit guarantee scheme. The discussion focuses in particular on the third pillar, because on the first two we have already taken important steps, which are not yet complete. Part of the discussion is about that third pillar. We are in favour of that banking union for the simple reason that, if you place multiple parties in an insurance policy, the banking union has something of a fire insurance policy. A larger pool of insured persons reduces the risks for all insured persons. So that's a good idea. But there is an important but and that is that under more or less equal conditions you get into that insurance. That is exactly what the debate is focusing on. You must imagine that, where the Netherlands and a large number of other countries say that the risks must be reduced further before the risk-mutualisation process takes place, a large part of the euro group says: we have all done so a long time ago, so this is the time to let that go hand in hand. That's a complicated discussion. The non-performance loans, which have a large number of banks in the various countries on the balance sheet, are below 5% in the Netherlands, but in several countries they are well above 30% and in some cases well above 50%. Now there is more to be said about these bank balances, but the simple fact that countries say, because of the NPLs, that they can move to risk mutualisation is very unwise to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u269	I very much agree with what the Minister says, first risk reduction and then risk spread. But is it not wise, especially in view of the possibility of reaching compromises in certain areas, to communicate that we actually already have a form of mutualisation through the ECB, that buy-back programme? The Minister will say that he is not about it, but there is, in the end you can feel it, and that now includes an amount of 3,500 billion, a serious sum in European terms. Shouldn't you stop it from pointing out what we're talking about here and at what station we're on the train that's already driving?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u270	Mr Knapen is right. It is a huge sum, and I believe that 2 300 billion was the last time I looked at the amounts, but I am sure they have been raised again afterwards. The idea of broadening the playing field and saying in the negotiation that you have actually already got what you wanted is of course interesting. At the same time, Mr Knapen will recognize that every negotiation has already taken the other side of what you have already given away. That's not always easy to dissect. Moreover, the banking union is not the only country that wants to reduce risks. There is a much larger group of countries that consider that important for the simple reason that, if you don't get it right now, you're going to start wondering why you've been too long-suffering on the front. As far as I'm concerned, we should avoid that. This applies both to stock and to flow. The stock, the NPLs that are already there, and the flow, the NPLs and the misery that might come. Then I have answered a question from Mr Backer. Mr Postema and Mr Van Apeldoorn asked, both in a slightly different variant, who will pay the next account of the crisis. I think they believe that the objective is that it is not the taxpayer who takes the fall. At the same time, of course, you can never rule out the possibility that, if enough banks, and certainly system banks, are in very serious trouble, the taxpayer will have to intervene again. We are trying to avoid this with all these measures, but that is precisely the great political discontent that was behind a very different discussion about salaries some time ago. Why? Because, of course, that's exactly where the tension is... who ultimately pays the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u271	I wonder how that will work in, for example, an EMF. Maybe the Minister can help me with that. If such a country goes down, the first risk will be placed with the bondholders. We know that these bonds are often held by other governments or institutions of other governments. Aren't we still talking about the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u272	Mr Postema is now returning from the Banking Union to the EMF. In both cases, of course, you want taxpayers in other countries to be the first to pay the bill. In this situation, it may well be possible within the EMF that a country also has government bonds from other countries on its balance sheet, but the fundamental difference with this moment is that you can extend the maturity or adjust the interest rate for the owners, the investors who have bonds from the country itself. The most radical form is of course that you discount the bonds. Does that hurt? Yes, of course that hurts a lot and is that a pretty brutal measure, but why is that fair at the same time? Because the alternative, which we have applied extensively in recent years, is taxpayers from other countries who have to cough up their accounts. Between those two evils, I think it is obvious to say: it is very annoying, but if you share that with your own hands................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about the government's commitment to the separation between utility and business banks, a discussion which was also a bit longer ago. This has been the subject of a proposal in Europe, namely the banking structural reform, the BSR, but the Commission indicated in 2017 that it would withdraw that proposal. The reason was that an agreement in the EP was not deemed likely to be reached after years of stalemate and that the stability goals were achieved, because that is where I think Mr Van Apeldoorn can be achieved by other means too, but I see that Mr Van Apeldoorn might want to be even more satisfied with the answer I am going to give. I don't know if that's in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u273	I see he's gonna sit around for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u274	Well, Mr President, I will go straight to the Eurobonds and then I will be back to Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u275	Oh, now he's coming: Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u276	I must say that I expected a somewhat more detailed answer from the Minister. My question was whether the government agrees with the analysis that it can be achieved and achieved by other means. I now understand from the Minister's reply that the cabinet sees this as well. I would like to comment on this, because there are actually two approaches to the problem of the financial sector, its regulation, the prevention or reduction of...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u277	You're keeping your question short, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u278	I'll keep my question brief. There are two flight routes to reduce systemic risks. One is very briefly the way of supervision, namely a supervisory mechanism and the possibilities for settlement, which we now also have. The other way is to tackle the problem at source, namely the banks themselves. Then you can think of raising capital buffers, splitting up or reducing banks and separating utility and business activities. That element has now been removed. That was an element of the banking union that we said: well, that is heading in the right direction. Isn't it true that we have a great deal of confidence in this supervisory mechanism and in those laws and regulations, and is that sufficient in the event of a next real system crisis? I am genuinely concerned about that, so I wonder how the Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u279	In all honesty, I think it is a palette of things that we have organised with each other and are still organizing. Mr Van Apeldoorn is quite right that the supervisory mechanism is a very important pillar in that. The resolution mechanism with the resolution authority implementing it is also a very important part of that. The whole logic of the bail-in is, of course, new in this area, so that makes it really different from the time when a discussion on business banks versus utility banks was held for the first time. We're not quite there yet, but we're a long way away with those bail-in buffers called MREL and TLAC. Mr Van Apeldoorn knows: MREL is the European variant and TLAC is the international variant. I think if we had that palette in a previous crisis, things would have been really different. It is, of course, complicated, and I agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn that when the next crisis comes, one thing is certain: it will look a little different. What we can do now is to prepare ourselves as best we can on the basis of the lessons we can draw from the past. Mr President, I was at the Eurobonds. Mr Postema asked for my opinion. What are the views of the cabinet? At least that's how I interpreted the question. We are not in favour of eurobonds, because that means that the Dutch taxpayer is going to pay a premium, to put it again in good Dutch, for spending those eurobonds. You have to bring together the risks of all these euro countries. Moreover, that is the position of the present cabinet, but that was also the position of the previous cabinet, as I have always understood. Maybe I can also say in Mr Postema's direction that this debate on the Eurobonds is no longer being held by my colleagues, so it is not a subject that is still very prominent on the agenda of the eurogroup countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u280	That was also consciously one of the reasons why I came back to it. I do not see in the discussion that this premium has been paid for a long time and is through other mechanisms. We have had to give enormous guarantees and have to cough up emergency and restructuring funds together. That would not have been necessary or to a much lesser extent at the time when we could have ruled out the country speculation risk. So, frankly, I find it intellectually a weakness not to further explore the scenarios of Eurobonds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u281	That is, of course, a sensitive allegation, but it is perhaps good to say that the previous cabinet has chosen this quite extensively. The previous cabinet also said that it wondered what kind of problem the Eurobonds would solve. With regard to the previous and the present cabinet, it is also clear that it is not in the interests of the Dutch taxpayer to start with this. So I guess it doesn't have much to do with intellectual laziness. It really has to do with the fact that a discussion is no longer about it, we do not think it is sensible because we do not see exactly what they would solve, and I also find it ill explainable that the Dutch taxpayer should go along with these eurobonds. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mrs Strik asked about transparency. Mrs Strik has moved a few benches, I see; I missed her a little close to me on the left. Mr Blok has already said a number of things about transparency. I have been working for transparency over the last few years. It may have escaped Members' attention, but after the Eurogroup and Ecofin, I tried to reconnect what has been discussed in greater detail. I spoke to Mr Centeno about transparency. I have also expressed my support both for the eurogroup and in the press for the members of the House of Representatives who have sparked this debate in Europe. In the direction of Mr Van Apeldoorn, I might add that I do not often receive a compliment from the SP group in the House of Representatives, but that this was really one. Moreover, there is still a world to be won in terms of transparency, despite the efforts made by a part of the Chamber and myself. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Faber asked about the Greek programme and if it is true that this programme will end this year. That's right. It seems to me that it would be a good idea to mark once again that Greece has had a very impressive package of reforms. Mr Blok has already referred to the fact that this has cost blood, sweat and tears. That's definitely my perception. It does mean that the country is much better off than it did. It is now up to Greece to complete the last measures of the last support programme. It is expected that this will happen in August of this year. Mr Postema asked for tax avoidance. Mr Backer asked for that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u282	One brief interruption, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u283	I am pleased that the support programme for Greece is being phased out, but I had another question about the conditions for the Franco-German support for the European financial rescue package for Greece. Is it true that the arms contracts are linked to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u284	I've tried to listen carefully. Had my colleague Mr Blok not already said something about this? I have not considered this question as a question that should lie with me. I, or Mr Blok, will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u285	As far as I am concerned, the question can also be answered in writing at a later date. That's good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u286	Yes, excellent. And "a later time" is not later tonight, but a later time this month or next month.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u287	May I ask how much longer you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u288	Mr President, I am, of course, trying to show great care. I think I have two or three comments to make on taxation. Then I have one last comment and I'm all done. But you understand that I want to seize this opportunity with both hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u289	I totally understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u290	Mr President, I shall make it relatively brief. Mr Postema and Mr Backer both referred to the importance of tax avoidance and tax evasion. I very much agree with that. It is good to point out that the previous cabinet has taken a different path. I remember from the time I was a member of this house how we talked about ATAD 1 and ATAD 2. The present cabinet continues on that road. A great deal has already happened in this area. In my view, Mr Postema did not talk literally about digital taxation, but I had the impression that he referred to it. Whether you like it or not, the digital economy is there. Personally, I think it's good that there is. You have to think about how to deal with this new situation in taxation. The Commission has recently issued a publication. It is typically a subject in which we not only have to examine the proposal carefully, but also want to be an explicit part of the discussion, because the subject will remain with us. The digital economy is going to grow. One time it will come to digital taxation in a certain form, at any level. Mr Ten Hoeve asked about CCCTB, another subject which I know the Chamber has been dealing with for a long time. There is much to say about it, apart from the appreciation given earlier by the previous cabinet in a BNC-fiche, but the most important thing is that, as Mr Ten Hoeve will also realize, the First and Second Chambers have drawn a yellow card. The cabinet must take this very seriously when it comes to taking positions in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u291	Mr. Ten Hoeve, one interruption, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u292	I understand what the Minister is saying, but the government itself says it wants to counter base erosion and therefore want to harmonise critical points. This means that the discussion on this issue will be constructively co-operated, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u293	You have to ask yourself whether you should talk about base erosion in the discussion on CCCTB and CCCB, or whether you should have that debate wider. I'm really forgetting this, recapitulating the feelings of this Chamber a little longer ago: there are a number of fundamental problems for the Netherlands in the CCCB and the CCCTB, which make you have to look for the positive points with a flashlight. I understand that Mr Ten Hoeve has one point on which I agree in his own right. But if you're not careful, you're gonna let yourself be, because that one point might appeal to you, drag you into a discussion you don't want to have. We should avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u294	Finally, Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u295	The Minister says he's taking one point out. But this is precisely the cardinal point at the CCCTB's point of departure, namely that there should be basic harmonisation? That's not one point. It's the central point of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u296	Yes, but of course it's about the effect. There is a lot in the elaboration that not only does not appeal to the previous one, but also to the present Dutch cabinet. Moreover, the cabinet has to answer in First and Second Chambers. The First and Second Chambers have drawn a yellow card for this, I believe in fairly large majorities. Then the position, however constructive we put it in, is rather clearly framed, I might put it that way. I come again to Mr Backer, who referred to Darkest Hour, an interesting film about a key moment in history. After he has said something inviting about it, I cannot fail to respond to it. I must confess that, if I may put it that way, it is a stretch of the imagination from the confused cabinet in the summer of 1940 to the conference room where I sit with my European colleagues. But that is what Mr Backer has encouraged me to do. And if I may say something about that movie: the story was actually much more beautiful. Operation Dynamo was not the moment after which Churchill received the big applause. That was only a little later, I think so mid-July, after Mers-el-Kébir. But that is what Mr Backer and I are talking about later. Mr President, I apologize, I almost sat down, but you are dealing with the order here. I just wanted to say that I had reached the end of my first term, if that's all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u297	Thank you. I'll take a look around the room. I think we can proceed immediately with the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u298	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would of course like to thank the two ministers for their detailed answer, especially the Foreign Minister, because that is one of the first ministers at a time when my question has been addressed so extensively. In this respect, I sincerely congratulate you on that. There is one question that, I think, was accidentally forgotten. That was the question to the minister about social media in Germany. Currently, there is legislation to ensure that if there are unwanted notifications on them, they must be removed immediately by commercial companies. In my question I had asked: then the commerce will sit on the judge's seat. And my question to the Minister was: does the government share the view that it is undesirable for commercial companies to sit in the court seat? I would like an answer to that from the Minister. When I hear the debate like this, we are actually worse off here in this Chamber than I thought before I started this debate. We have talked in detail about sovereignty, yes, there is even talk of shared sovereignty. But there is no such thing as shared sovereignty. It just can't be. Speaking of sovereignty, we simply need to implement European legislation. If we don't, we'll just get a fine. So that's where we turned in pretty good, too. So we see a growing gap between politics and citizens. And our colleague Schaap van de VVD says he does not represent his VVD supporters, but all citizens. That means that a voice on the VVD means that it can go either way. That is different at the PVV, because we simply remain on our points of view. Whatever I find worrying: look, you can find Trump whatever you want, but to put him out of here like anything and everything, like, for example, an unstable mind, a reality showmaster and so on... We are talking about an ally here. If this ally says "let's make America great again" or "America first," what's wrong with that? Why shouldn't he say that? He's the president of the United States, so it's pretty normal for him to put his country first. I also hear the Minister say: yes, a minister stands up for the Dutch interest, because if he does not, who will do that for us? That's what he's doing. So I think it's very special that Trump is getting out of here like this. I remember when my party chairman or party leader Wilders said Erdogan was a total freak, the Chamber was too small, but we can say a lot about Trump here. Of course, we have freedom of speech on our plate, so that's okay. Good. I was pleased with the contribution of the SGP on Israel, that it would be a nice gesture if we supported the move from the embassy to Jerusalem. Then I must also say that, in addition to the SGP, which would like to underline that, Trump did, of course. Of course, Israel is the only democratic country in the Middle East, so that should actually have more support from the European Union. One more point about the migration problem. I think it is actually very simple to solve it to a large extent, and that is mainly by not encouraging future or potential migrants to go there. So we have to stop the welcome attitude of "everyone is welcome," because that is simply not possible. You're not gonna solve the problem by bringing everyone to Europe. Surely it will be much more beautiful if these young men are just going to build their own country? You can also see that it is simply not neat to rob a country of all young men, while they simply have to build their own country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u299	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mr Schaap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u300	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the two directors for their detailed answers and for a small challenge that remained on the side of the Foreign Minister. I'll get back to you on that. I have two comments to make, first on the Balkans. I have here in the Chamber a considerable degree of unanimity as to how we should deal with these people and the procedure involved. The Minister also shares this, so there are no further comments on the geopolitical situation. I have also tried to make it clear in the first term that certain countries, including Russia, China, but also Turkey, are beginning to enter there with not too pure motives. From a geopolitical point of view, it is of the utmost importance to give the Balkans the feeling that they belong to Europe in order to prevent them from being tempted, so to speak, to get too much into the arms of these powers. Let's talk about the bookkeeper's challenge. My first-term words would have led me to conclude that I do not take the accountant seriously, but that is not the case at all. A good accountant is in the service of the entrepreneur. I was particularly concerned that the entrepreneur should not be turned into an accountant, nothing else. In this sense, I have spoken about the European budget and said that you should look above all at what can be done in an entrepreneurial way with the European budget and that you should look at the next budgetary period. If a detour through Brussels, Brussels policy and corresponding Brussels money is more profitable, I think that would be a good argument for taking that detour. I would therefore not like to end up as an accountant in this respect, but as a grocery store: if Brussels is the way to do more, do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u301	Thank you, Mr. Sheep. I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u302	Mr. Chairman. We also thank the Ministers for their detailed reply. I believe that every question or almost every question is addressed. Much appreciated for that. Considering the first-term considerations, let me repeat that, as far as we are concerned, the core problem of the European Union continues to be its failure from the point of view of our democratic ideals. The European Union is not sufficiently transparent, the role of national parliaments is too limited and too many powers have been transferred to Brussels and also enshrined in a neoliberal, quasi-economic constitution. This neoliberal policy has also been extended by the unelected European Commission and has further strengthened the power of capital vis-à-vis labour and the rest of society. The Minister responds by saying: yes, we must also pay close attention to this and ensure that citizens and workers benefit sufficiently and we must prevent exploitation. The question is whether this will happen. The labour income ratio has been historically low and down everywhere. This is, of course, not only due to the European Union's conto, but also to economic liberalisation in Europe and worldwide. Now both ministers say: what we need to do is reform, reform, reform, but I would like to say once again that the troika reforms and austerity have led to great social misery and a real humanitarian disaster in a country such as Greece. The answer given by some groups to our observation that Europe is failing in terms of the functioning of democracy or the democratic functioning of Europe is that there must be more Europe, an even more supranational Europe. That is not the answer, therefore, but a dead end and the recipe for an even deeper crisis of legitimacy. All those who say that we must seek our salvation in a European democracy must ask once again: where and who is the European demos? I do not think that problem is sufficiently addressed. I have also asked the government for its view on this. I have not yet seen that vision completely crystallized, but we will undoubtedly continue the discussion about it. I am glad, however, that the Minister for Finance has said that he has worked hard to achieve greater transparency within the euro group. If there is a real black box in the configuration of institutions and bodies in the European Union, then it is the euro group. For this reason, I would like to add the compliments of the European Economic and Social Committee, to which I would like to add the question of whether the Minister sees it as possible in principle and would be in favour of the euro group being given formal status in one way or another and that this transparency can be formally established in that sense. As far as banking union is concerned, I note that the Minister is in fact completely relying on the supervisory regime and says that it is therefore not necessary to address the problem at source, i.e. with the banks, and therefore the structural banking reform directive is no longer necessary. Let me make a comparison with what the Minister said about Spain in relation to the euro crisis. If, in addition to a balance of payments deficit, Spain had a very high level of public debt at the time, would Spain not have been in greater trouble? I would say yes, but that also applies to the banks, of course. We can tighten the supervision of banks and we can put the resolution mechanism in place, but wouldn't it be better off in the event of a subsequent financial crisis that we cannot predict in terms of size and nature if we were to deal with the banks themselves, for example when it comes to the separation of utility activities and business activities? What can we do in concrete terms when it comes to democratisation of the EU? In any case, ensure that decision-making and the European legislative process become transparent. I welcome the government's efforts in this area. I hope, therefore, that we can understand what is going to happen to it in concrete terms and what the cabinet is doing in concrete terms. I hope this will be put back together, but the Minister has promised it, so that we will continue to follow it. It would then be unsatisfactory if the Minister were to keep saying that the other Member States do not want to. I would like to know which Member States they are and what the Netherlands has tried to convince them. Then we can somehow get an insight into it. What should not happen is that we weaken the position of national parliaments even further. I spoke about the cabinet letter on the implementation directives and the policy on fines. We're a little freaked out about that. In reply to this question, not everything became clear, but we are continuing this discussion, and I also think with the Minister for Legal Protection, in writing or orally. That will certainly come back to the committees here in this house. So that discussion is just gonna be continued. Many colleagues and I, too, pointed out in the first term the rapidly changing geopolitical context, including Trump's 'America first' power policy. We have heard from some groups that the answer to this destabilizing power policy should be that Europe itself comes up with a power policy, including the use of military power. As far as we are concerned, the answer to militaristic power politics is not even more militaristic power politics. I asked the government how it assessed the European Defence Fund in this respect. We also see the danger of developing a European military-industrial complex, but the Minister sees only members of scale. We are wondering, given the profitability of this sector, whether it is really necessary to throw so much subsidy at it. With regard to the invasion of Turkey, I have another question. Did I understand correctly from the Foreign Minister that he condemns it in terms of its consequences, for example the negative effects on the fight against IS, but not because of the violation of international law that this invasion means? Finally, the ECHR and the European Court of Human Rights. This is an essential institution in Europe which will be a community of values and which focuses on the values of the democratic rule of law. It is therefore obvious that the EU, which bears these values, should join the ECHR. Not only is that obvious, but it has been the plan for a very long time, because it is also in Article 6 (2) of the Treaty of Lisbon. We've asked the government to do this. The Minister referred to a ruling by the European Court of Justice at the end of 2014, but since then the case has actually been held. We also understand and appreciate that the cabinet will continue to work for it, but we had hoped for a more concrete plan of action. We would also like to know a little more precisely why and how the government sees the possibility of achieving this accession. That is why I have tabled the following motion. The President shall: Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Teunissen, Mr Wezel, Mr Strik and Mr Köhler proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the Lisbon Treaty obliges the European Union to accede to the European Convention on Human Rights;]] [[Notes that almost 10 years have passed since the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the precise state of play in the compulsory accession process;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of whether or not it sees any possibility for the government to implement the EU's accession to the ECHR in the foreseeable future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34841-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u303	Mr President, may I ask, through you, Mr Van Apeldoorn, why this question was not simply asked, by letter or in the first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u304	Thank you for this question. I think I asked the same question. However, the answer was rather short and actually not satisfactory. What matters to us is this. This file has been shut down for a very long time now. The cabinet keeps saying: we support this; we are committed to this. But then reference is made to the ruling of the European Court of Justice. As far as we are concerned, that is not enough. We would have liked to have mapped out the possibilities and inability, according to the cabinet, to achieve this in the foreseeable future. We would like a clear answer to that. It may well be that we will get that clarity in the second-term response. But that's why we filed this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u305	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u306	Mr President, may I also warmly thank the two directors for their comprehensive and competent response? Let me also congratulate the Foreign Minister. After all, he just got here. We're witnessing a steep learning curve. He may be a little more of a man of precision than of passion, but that all gets used to quickly. The Minister of Finance has worked very well and is also very useful. My question as to whether these nineteen 'euro Member States' are the group with which you are building a strong, strong euro union has not been answered. He is also quite right, because he would still be forced into some diplomatic pranks. So I'd like to leave it that way. Mr. Chairman. I sense that the Foreign Minister is in favour of the French intervention initiative. At least that's what it sounds like. He is not the type to take the lead in the polonaise to put out the flag for this, but I read from his words that he might be enthusiastic about it. It's good to see that here. The Minister also said that, for a moment, I would like to point that out: cooperation between France and Germany, which is all good and good, but I am here for the national interest, for the Dutch interest. That seems obvious to me. But we all know that 'national interest' is a label that you can stick on a bottle of milk, a bottle of gin or a bottle of beer. You can put that on anything. You can easily see in this Chamber that the national interest for everyone means something different. It could mean that we have an interest in strengthening this European core. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the financial part, but I really want to get it together, because you should also see it in conjunction if you want to pursue foreign policy. The threats from outside mean that we must stand strong in Europe. That was my point and that is urgent. That strength, that strength, is difficult to imagine without Franco-German cooperation. Having said that, we have all kinds of important points to make sure that this cooperation fits in with what we think is sensible and good for our citizens. The Minister of Finance is always talking about our taxpayers, but I would also like to say for our citizens. It is good to pay attention to this, but it is also good to point out that this broader importance of this strong core is also essential for our citizens. If you do not, you run the risk of a compromise being interpreted here as defeat when it is not. Such a hanze coalition could, with all the merits I see from the minister, throw the voter on the wrong foot, as if this cabinet would not see the bigger picture. That is not the case, of course, and the ministers have made that clear here. I wish them every success in this mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u307	Thank you, Mr. Knapen. I give the floor to Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u308	Mr. Chairman. I have seen today, this morning, that various groups have really done their best to make real European reflections today and not just a list of political topicality. I've learned a lot from that, too. I am therefore grateful not only to both ministers, but also to colleagues. I also note that there are several colleagues in the government parties who call on the cabinet to contribute proactively and constructively to the Europe of the future. Strengthen European commitment in the fields of security, defence, sustainability, R&D, asylum and migration, also combined in the development of an external leg, as Mr Knapen said, in addition to the already developed foot of the internal market. Better and more contemporary use of European resources, not necessarily with less, as Mr Schaap said. I myself felt the need to deepen and guide the future of the European Union as a community along at least five axes. The answer given by the two ministers shows in full how difficult it is to have a real dialogue here with the government. Europe continues to manage a set of problems for them, without an inspiring view. Nevertheless, I hope that the contributions made here in the Chamber today from the various groups, including mine, will make the government think about its role in Europe. We will not fail to follow the government in the coming period. Finally, Mr President. As a Chamber, we have also looked at the Commission's 2018 programme, which has led to the concept of the 2018 European Work Programme of the First Chamber. My group supports the adoption of this work programme in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u309	Thank you, Mr. Postema. I give the floor to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u310	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by expressing this support. I had 1 minute and 25 seconds left in the first period and they should have gone about it, but I was overtaken by the other subjects. We also support this European programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u311	That's noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u312	Mr. Chairman. These considerations today are also real reflections, of a general nature. The D66 Group has put its own emphasis on this contribution in the first term. I think that is also the intention of this meeting and of the interactions with colleagues on this issue. I have stressed that it is a pivotal moment in history and that there is a momentum that needs to be grasped now. I have listened carefully to Minister Blok and I thank him, and also Minister Hoekstra, for the generally careful response. I'm just making the disclaimer in general here and that's where my intervention started right before the evening break. My irritation was that at some point it was very mechanical and routine. The positive side: it is, of course, a very experienced minister, who is not going to spread and keep things small. But if there is a debate on a large subject, which many of us are also expressing with a certain passion, then it is as unfortunate as it is. But each his own style. I've reconciled with that once again. It was also made up for by the two rulers after the break. Minister Blok said something about Franco-German dynamics and that the playing field should not be dominated solely by Franco-German dynamics, but of course no one has claimed that either. No, of course not. But the core is a dynamic that is extremely important and that we will have to pay attention to if we do not want to be empty-handed at the end. I agree with what Mr Knapen said on this point. I have listened very carefully to Minister Blok on defence capabilities. I appreciate that, too. On President Macron's initiative, he said, while maintaining the unanimity rule. I understand that, too. I think that one day, but that's gonna take a long time, maybe change again. The issue of Monti and its own resources; let me not say too much about it at this late hour. I think it's about managing expectations and I'll come back to that later. I was relieved to hear that Minister Hoekstra has been in almost every capital in Europe and in some more often, because I had also got the impression that the Hanseatic coalition dominated his range of action. Fortunately, that is not the case. That is also a gain from this debate, because that can help to make the right interpretation of what the cabinet is doing. The Minister mentioned "pattern recognition" which he does in Europe. I'm also doing pattern recognition here. I didn't see it like that, but I'm happy about it. There is, of course, 'of course' because I would have expected nothing else from the two leaders to say that there will be no more money for the EU budget. You're not gonna say that any differently, and I don't need to hear that either. I think that the importance of this debate is that you hear from me that, if the outcome of the discussions is different, I will value it, and that it will, of course, cause problems, because then we have to turn around again and find that money that is allowed. I would like to put it this way. Originally, the Minister of Finance is a lawyer and knows the distinction between an effort commitment and a commitment to results. I think we're talking about an effort commitment here and we'll see what comes out. Mr. Chairman. I asked about the following, which Minister Hoekstra has said little about. In the group of southern countries, but also in the Commission's proposals, and even the Council of State has said something on this point, it has been said that the social pillar must take shape in the further European dimension. Not by handing out money and transfer expenditure, but by investing and creating real economic progress in parts of Europe where it is not yet there. Mr President, I will conclude. In all these complex negotiations in so many places, we keep in mind that this is in the interests of the citizen, in the Netherlands but also in Europe. Yeah, there's a lot of flaws and it's gonna be very technical. That is also the risk of such a debate. At some point, especially in financial matters, it becomes very technical, with many abbreviations. But in the end, it's about a capacity to make people's lives better. I am confident that the ministers and the cabinet are working on this. I have a feeling that we will talk about the EMF again, because I am not entirely convinced that it will have to be an intergovernmental outcome, but we will see it. I would also like to conclude by expressing my appreciation for the commitment of the ministers; Mr Blok was in Russia and Venezuela for a while and is now here to discuss with us. Finally, Mr President. My group has confidence in the future. Let that happen to be the title of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u313	Thank you very much, Mr Backer. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u314	Mr. Chairman. My party is always in the mood for the future. That is, if possible, even more optimistic than trust, but together things are going well. I would like to thank both directors very much for their reply. I have two more points on human rights for Minister Blok and then I come to the European ambitions of the cabinet. On human rights. The next few days, of course, the Copenhagen Declaration will be adopted, which we do not know exactly what it says, but on which it has been very trustingly indicated that it will all work out. In replying to Minister Blok, I was missing some clarity as to whether this political dialogue would be included or not. The Minister indicated that the Committee of Ministers could, of course, intervene in this, but the point is, of course, that you do not want governments to question the Court about certain case-law and to discuss it. That would also be unthinkable at national level, because then you might step into the independence of the Court. You shouldn't even want to wake up that suggestion. With regard to additional contributions. We know how difficult the court is. We know that, in fact, if you add all the Member States together, it is not at all about so much extra contributions. The Brussels Declaration called for this. So I would nevertheless like to give the government to make sure that there is a further mention of it in the follow-up statement, so that the Court receives sufficient financial support. Then there is a human rights aspect with regard to migration. We have talked about foreign policy and how migration plays an increasingly important role. My point here is above all: how do we prevent the external dimension of European migration policy from leading to human rights violations? The EU Ombudsman has already indicated: ex ante research, some kind of impact assessment, whether it could harm the human rights of refugees or not. The coalition agreement talks about a monitoring mechanism that should be established. If you have such mechanisms, of course you should also talk about stopping cooperation when there are clear violations of human rights. I haven't heard the Minister say anything convincing about that. Maybe he can go into that after all. Then there are European ambitions. It really struck me that a number of coalition groups here seem to be significantly more ambitious than the cabinet. Mr. Postema gave it to me as well. Comments have already been made about perhaps more external power, more foreign policy. The Minister said that we are going to study Juncker's proposal. I hope we'll hear more about that later. However, EMU and economic and social cooperation were also at odds with a gap. As far as I am concerned, the Minister of Finance has not yet been able to take away the picture that he was, especially with the little ones, organizing a kind of counterweight, counterpower over the big two, although he tried to say very diplomatically that it was actually a sort of rapprochement to Germany. I still see it a little differently, that it was mainly: trying to counterweight by hand on the cut. On the other hand, I hear too much about the hand brake being used to look at possible further development within the European Union. It is an ESM that should remain mainly intergovernmental, if you add it all together, and not Community, not risk-sharing, each for itself. In fact, I can only hope that the coalition partners I have heard here will continue to be in charge of the cabinet in order to look at them a little more visionary, a little longer, because Europe deserves it. Not only the Netherlands, but all the Member States, and especially our people, deserve to be able to pursue a robust policy, with buffers, with risk-sharing and with sufficient solidarity. Finally. We are, of course, doing it for those European citizens. I would like to touch on Mr Backer's last words: for that social policy you would actually like to develop that solid economic and financial policy. I would therefore call on Minister Hoekstra to look a little less sec, purely at budgetary discipline. Give me some room. Look at what countries need, such as investing in education and solving unemployment problems. If you pay too little attention to this, the balance sheets may eventually be right, but you will lose the citizens and also the future of the countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u315	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u316	Mr President, thank you very much. Many thanks also to the ministers for their reply. Over a third, 38% of the EU budget has been virtually undisputed by ministers. This is a pity, especially now that the CAP is being reformed and can play a crucial role as a steering tool in the transition from animal to plant proteins and we can effectively tackle climate change. The elephant in the room is unnamed. I have given both ministers an opportunity for an open goal to catch the cow by the horns, but they have not gotten to the animal kingdom and, unfortunately, have confined themselves mainly to humanity. I mentioned in my speech the subsidy of bullfighting as an example of a democratic deficit. The request of the House of Representatives, which was unanimously adopted, and the European Parliament to end socially controversial expenditure on agricultural subsidies, has been ignored by the European Commission for years. There is therefore a democratic deficit. In addition, EU animal welfare rules state that animals need to be spared unnecessary suffering. I would like to move that one of the most pregnant forms of animal cruelty should no longer be eligible, namely bullfighting. The President shall: Mr Teunissen, Mr Koffeman, Mr Strik, Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that substantial amounts from European agricultural subsidies are spent on the bullfighting sector;]] [[noting that in the coming period the Cabinet is negotiating the reform of the new Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) by 2020;]] [[Considering that in 2013 the House of Representatives instructed the Government to work in Europe to stop granting agricultural subsidies for the breeding of fighting bulls;]] [[Whereas in 2015 the European Parliament voted against subsidies for the breeding of fighting bulls by amendment;]] [[calls on the Government to work in Europe to ensure that, following the review of the common agricultural policy in 2020, no subsidies will be used for the breeding of fighting bulls,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34841-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u317	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister has indicated that he cannot judge this issue today because of limited knowledge on this subject at the moment. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for a letter prior to the vote, preferably before the end of this week. He could also include the judgment on the motion I have just tabled in this letter. My group believes that the reform of the common agricultural policy is an opportunity to move forward with this motion. Mr. Chairman. Let me return to the EU topic. Unfortunately, both ministers did not address Mr Szász's legacy, which I mentioned earlier in my speech. He warned strongly about the euro as a maze without a way out, as a one-way street to the United States of Europe. What is wrong with a return to more monetary autonomy instead of the euro? What is wrong with a currency next to the euro, a national currency, not as an alternative to fruitful European cooperation, but as a necessary condition for that? It would be nice to abandon the fact-finding spirit and to highlight the alternative solutions in the final agreement of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u318	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u319	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate the rulers on their effective response. After submitting the previous motion, I will not make any reference to the cold-bloodedness of matadors and the like on the other side of that table. But let me point out that many immense world problems have been caused by Minister Blok, although Minister Hoekstra can also be reduced to, I will not say, 'almost fatal issues', but they have been made very manageable. I thought maybe it was due to the late hour. Senators are also a bit like my young children: they sometimes ask very big questions and are then satisfied with very small answers. So much for my introductory remarks. I'm just gonna take a few points out. I would like to thank Minister Blok for saying a few words about anti-Semitism and the work of the coordinator in this area. In the EU Member States, this is a very persistent and urgent problem, leading to feelings of great insecurity among many Jews. So I urge the Minister once again to do everything in his power to continue addressing anti-Semitism at European level. Mr. Chairman. Courtesy is, in general, a very great asset. As far as I am concerned, this also applies to the treatment of Eastern European countries by Brussels, but that also applies to the way in which we talk about the American President. It must be borne in mind that the PVV in this area should call the Chamber to order and call for a moderation of our tone. I think that's quite historic. It's been noted. The Minister continues to seek a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. In particular, I would like to stress that peace must come from the bottom up and that it is certainly not conducive for terrorists to continue to be generously paid by the Palestinian Authority, and that a lot of textbooks on the West Bank and in Gaza are still teeming with anti-Semitic expressions. There is European money in this too. I am also thinking of the UNRWA schools in those areas, which are partly paid from Europe. The Minister wouldn't want that, would he? The word "conditionality" has fallen a number of times today. Let us also apply this here: no EU aid money as long as violence or hatred is glorified by Palestinian rulers. I'd like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u320	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u321	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank both ministers for their reply. I am very pleased to note the positive approach that this government has explicitly taken towards the European Union and its development. We're moving forward again. Only, and that is what I said in the first term: for me it could also be a little less focused on business and a little more on emotional matters. The EU, we are ourselves. Perhaps this is also reflected in the approach to the Multiannual Financial Framework. What I said about this was paraphrased by Minister Blok as: the Brexit will have to lead to more contributions. That was a little short. Of course you don't have to. If enough savings are being made, and savings can be made here and there, then there should be no need at all. We can also make savings; Mrs Teunissen has already made a move. At least there's a possibility, and there's more in that corner. But there are also a lot of new expenditures. I would therefore like to say that if the government does not, in the end, remain too strict on its position of 'not a penny', then I am at peace with that. There was a similar line of reasoning with regard to a possible new tax on the EU itself. Of this, Minister Blok said that this would lead to additional burden on citizens. I don't think that's quite right. There are good arguments for a real EU tax. There are also arguments against it, but there are also very good arguments for it. What comes in that way, of course, doesn't have to come in any other way. In other words, this will be integrated into the Multiannual Financial Framework. The total amount of that framework is determined with each other. I'm talking about taxes, and I'm gonna stick with that for a while. Let's talk about the CCCTB. Yes, I'm aware that the government can't help but object. Both chambers drew a yellow card about that. I am aware that the House of Representatives was also very negative about the EOM: the EOM should definitely not be. After a number of changes, we are now ready to participate fully. If I note that the government would like to continue talking about harmonizing on critical points to counter base erosion, I note that this is at the heart of the CCCTB discussion. I do not rule out the possibility that there may be a common solution to this problem. As the last point I mentioned earlier, namely the situation in Spain. What is wrong there seems to me to be not first of all criminal in character, but political in character. This also means that the solution must not be first and foremost criminal but politically sought. It would be a good thing for me if politicians in the European Union wanted to see that and say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u322	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. It seems to me that the ministers are able to respond directly. I shall then give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u323	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their various words of appreciation for the way in which they have responded. A number of members asked for passion. I have deliberately outlined how I am of the generation who had parents and teachers who rightly spoke very passionately about European integration. That is the cabinet in many areas too, but that we have also become a bit of a streetwise by, for example, the EMU Treaty in 2003. So we look very carefully at what we agree. If we agree, we will defend that passionately. If we don't think it's wise, we can't help but stand up passionately for the Dutch interest. Mrs Faber asked for a German law on reporting or even removing expressions on social media. That's a German law. It's not for me to comment on that. I know that in the Netherlands too, in the context of the fight against terrorism, there are agreements with Internet companies to remove, for example, jihadist expressions as soon as possible, but there are no plans in the Netherlands to introduce that German legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u324	I had also focused my question on whether it is a desirable situation for commercial companies to sit in the court seat, because that is what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u325	I have indicated that the Netherlands does not intend to introduce German legislation. I think I have answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u326	I am not saying that the Netherlands is going to introduce German legislation, but only ask for an opinion from the government on this matter. Does she agree that it is an undesirable situation for commercial companies to sit in the court seat?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u327	In general, judges have tasks other than commercial companies. It is not for nothing that I indicated that the Netherlands is asking commercial companies to remove jihadist expressions or violent expressions as quickly as possible. But I suppose Mrs Faber agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u328	I actually wanted to leave it at that, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u329	Mr Schaap did not want to go through the honorable profession of accountant. He asked the cabinet to be a little more entrepreneurial. That is something I should like to comment on. An entrepreneur handles his own money. That really is something else than a government dealing with taxpayers' money. I do not want to open a whole new discussion with that, but that is substantially different. Mr Van Apeldoorn owed me an answer on the Spanish ship. That's what my diligent officials have done. He probably refers to the ship Open Arms, which was used by a Spanish NGO and brought in by the Italian authorities. The D.A. in Catania has indeed charged the NGO. That means that the case is now under trial, and in a court case, you can expect a minister to have no judgment on it. Then Mr Van Apeldoorn once again raised the question of whether the return is going to work or capital, and whether the EU is doing sufficiently well. I think you can see in all objectivity that within the EU there are the most prosperous, happy and functioning countries in the world. This already applies to the Netherlands as part of the EU. That is also an important explanation for the enormous migratory flows this way. This does not mean that we are lagging behind, but to say that it is a problem and misery in the EU or in the Netherlands, it would be a threat to the truth. When it comes to the condemnation of Afrin, I have deliberately formulated as I have formulated. I leave all kinds of other wordings to Mr Van Apeldoorn. I'm not going to repeat my own wording. The motion on accession to the ECHR also falls into the category of matters on which we really do not disagree. I would therefore like to carry it out, even if you do not put her to the vote. But we shouldn't look for differences where they aren't. I have also indicated that the Commission is the party to implement the legal ruling. We also believe that this should be done quickly, but I really need the Commission's response in order to assess what follow-up steps need to be taken. I'd like to share it with the Chamber as soon as possible. The cabinet would like the EU to join the ECHR quickly. If the motion is withdrawn, we will therefore execute it, and if it is still filed, we will execute it. I'm coming to see Mr. Knapen. I am indeed of precision. To be honest, it strikes me that there is no lack of enthusiasm in foreign policy. I've noticed that for decades. So I just wanted to add a little precision. We are indeed looking constructively at the French Defence Initiative, although it has not yet been worked out. In the French-German axis I am also of precision. I have already indicated: if that axis starts the right movement, because I have emphasized after all that I do want to move on important issues, we support it. Not for nothing do many rulers have very close contacts with the Franco-German axis. But should it lead to an unhoped isolation, I remember a romantic gathering in Deauville, where the rest of the Union and the Netherlands didn't agree so much. I hope to have explained further to Mr Postema where we are passionate and where we are passionately critical. Mr Backer also commented on this. In reply to Mr Knapen's questions, I hope I have also given him an answer on my vision of Franco-German dynamism and defence capacity. Mrs Strik asked about the Copenhagen Declaration and the political dialogue. There is no way that the Council of Ministers is going to deal with individual issues. I agree with Mrs. Strik. It may well be so, and that has been so from the very beginning of the creation of the Court that the European Court, like any judicial body, functions within a trias politician. That is more complicated there than in a national parliament. Mrs. Strik made a comparison with the Supreme Court. The rulings of all judges, including those of Supreme Courts, are respected. But it may well be that, on the basis of that, the Chamber or Government says that it considers it necessary to come up with a legislative amendment. In fact, that happens at regular intervals. The European Convention does not provide such a route easily. For this reason, the form that is now in place, the political dialogue with the Council of Ministers, but not with individual matters, has once been chosen. When it comes to extra money for the Court, the Netherlands really takes its fair share. There are a few countries that don't. That is actually the most important explanation for the financial problem. But you can't just commit extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u330	Mrs. Strik, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u331	I did not specifically mention that the Netherlands should contribute extra. My request was to ensure or to advocate that this declaration also includes something about additional contributions, that is to say, to call on other countries to contribute more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u332	Yeah, if that helps, I'd love to. It is the kind of countries that, I fear, does not attract so many statements. But if that helps, no problem. Then there is migration policy. Of course, the European Union's commitment is precisely to ensure that the Refugee Convention can be respected and applied. It is precisely to put an end to the terrible scenes on the Mediterranean and the human rights violations surrounding the large migratory flows. On the contrary, doing nothing would mean continuing both the drowning and the major human rights violations in the route to Europe. I just can't guarantee that that's settled from today to tomorrow. That is an incredibly complex problem. This involves countries which are generally very poorly organised internally. That is another reason why another important trace from the cabinet's migration letter is to support and strengthen those countries! But the commitment is, of course, to ensure that human rights violations are brought to an end. I will indeed inform Mrs Teunissen further by letter about bullfighting, because I really do not see whether there is any subsidy and what it would mean in technology to make an adjustment. Mr Van Dijk spoke of anti-Semitism. We will continue to set that up. When it comes to relations with the Palestinian Authority and with Israel, we will at the same time offer support and praise where appropriate, but also address human rights violations or other unwanted behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u333	Mrs. Teunissen, one interruption, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u334	Very briefly. I would like to thank the Minister very much for the letter. I just have the question as to whether it could come before the votes on the motions for resolutions that are part of this debate take place. That's next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u335	That means the letter should be there Friday before noon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u336	I want to do my best, but this is not a subject that is discussed every day in the Foreign Office. So I'm gonna do my best. Mr Ten Hoeve is more flexible both in the Multiannual Financial Framework and in EU taxes. For me, it is a bit of an empirical fact that in practice it does not lead to less taxation elsewhere, when a government imposes an additional tax. Also in that I have become a bit streetwise. As for Spain, there is no reason to believe that Spain has no functioning rule of law and functioning democracy. So I really see no reason for the Netherlands or the European Union to interfere now. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u337	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u338	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also for the questions and, above all, for a number of comments in my direction in the second term. Perhaps I can say that as far as Europe is concerned, I think that the combination of passion and streetwise, as Mr Blok has just said, is a nice adage. Let me stress once again, also to the Chamber, that I am very motivated to proceed with that combination. It is not for nothing that I, when I was in Berlin a few weeks ago to make a speech there, stressed that in an earlier phase of my life, when I lived in Berlin, I experienced and saw the enormous importance of Europe, much more than in the periods, much longer ago, in which I lived in France and Italy. Mr. Chairman. I owe Mrs Faber two more answers. As regards the answer to the first question that I was still guilty of, I can only confirm what I have just said about it, namely that the ESM and any EMF are exclusively euro-area countries, and then under very strict conditions. The second question concerned the purchase of defence equipment by the Greek authorities. She asked in particular whether France's support and I also thought Germany's support programme depended on this. I have no reason to believe that this is the case. Then Mr Van Apeldoorn asked whether there was more than just supervision. I think that was his concern. I hope that my first reply really made it clear that this is indeed the case and that there is much more to it than just supervision. It wouldn't be good if it were different. Remember the resolution. Think of the bail-in. Think of buffers. Think about the stress tests. So there really is a lot more than just that supervisory pillar and so it should be. Mr. Chairman. Mr Knapen allowed me not only not to answer the questions he did not ask, but also not to answer the questions he did ask. I won't make a habit of it, but I found it extremely courteous of him. Then, as far as the distinction I was trying to make between the taxpayer and the citizen is concerned. When it comes to Europe in general and its importance, I am talking about the citizen. When payment is due, I refer specifically to the taxpayer. That seems to me to be a measure that fits both subjects. Mrs Strik pointed out that we should look more broadly than just at buffers in some of the southern countries. I agree with her very much in itself, but I would like to point out that the countries themselves are at the ball, by making reforms and pursuing sensible policies. It cannot be the case that the finance ministers of other countries are suddenly given a responsibility that belongs primarily to the Member States. Mr. Chairman. Then I owe Mrs Teunissen an answer to her question on the history of the euro. She was right to say that. I think it is good to highlight that the euro is a financial and economic project. It always has been, and it still is. However, it has also been a very explicit political project. The last period is a little more attention to that. That has really been the driving force behind getting to the euro. I think it is appropriate to underline once again that there was very broad support for that project in both chambers of the States-General. Would you, looking back, do things differently? Yeah, no doubt. That's with most of the big complex things that concern you so much. But I would not in any way like to give the impression that we need to get rid of that euro. On the contrary, there are obvious advantages to it, for the whole of Europe, but also for the Netherlands in particular. Not so long ago, a report from Tilburg University showed how much the Netherlands has benefited from the euro. For each of the countries and also for the euro group as a whole, that is to say for all those involved, it is very likely to be extremely costly if you allow countries to leave it. So we really shouldn't want to go on that road. Mr. Chairman. Then there is one final comment about passion and being streetwise. Mr Blok and I have heard very clearly what the Chamber thinks and how we should make that assessment. The cabinet is, of course, trying to make that balance right. I would like to point out once again that I am talking to the other half of the States-General on these issues at least once a month, and that the balance between passion and streetwise is sometimes slightly different, that the government obviously has its own course of action, but has to justify itself in both Chambers of the States-General. As far as I am concerned, it is also good if we do this consistently, in both Chambers of the States-General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u339	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-8.u340	I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
