ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u1	The further general consultation of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council of 29 January 2018 will then be discussed. Three speakers have already signed up for this with speaking time. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The government has set out a number of good ambitions in the coalition agreement. In the short time she has been in the Ministry of Agriculture, the Minister has also said fine words about looking at the whole issue, using integrated plant protection and using as little chemical pesticides as possible. Then, of course, it is up to the Chamber to determine how concrete that can be. Hence the next motion, the continuation of the battle we've been having here for a while. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government recognises the need to minimise the use of chemical pesticides;]] [[noting that countries such as France, Belgium, Luxembourg, Slovenia, Malta and Greece are in favour of a Europe-wide departure from the species of bees and other organisms which are dangerous to bees;]] [[calls on the Government to join the call for the phasing-out of arthropods,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Grashoff, Mr Moorlag, Mr Graus and Mr Futselaar.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-1078]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has just referred to me as a connector and I am therefore proud to say that this motion was co-signed by Mr Grashoff, Mr Moorlag, Mr Graus and Mr Futselaar. I invite other parties to join me. That'd be so much fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u4	This signature has given sufficient support to this motion. It is therefore an automatic part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u5	That's how easy it can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u6	It's his own. Were you done with your contribution? That, too, is the issue. Then we continue with Mr De Groot of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u7	Sometimes I get the impression that the Party for Animals has a kind of fruit machine with motions. That's when nice combinations come out. There's always something in there with grapefruit and always something in there with integral. Anyway, that's a little lame. Mr. Chairman. I don't have a motion, but I do have a question for the Minister. In the context of the future of European agricultural policy, we had a small discussion on the advisory services proposed by the European Commission. These are incredibly important for two reasons. The first reason is that farmers need independent advice. This has already been addressed in the fraud case. Then the second reason. If we come to that integrated vision which the Minister has just announced and which is also in the coalition agreement, we will also have to bring farmers from A to B. That will also have to be done in an independent way. It does not have to be a large state-owned company, but there has to be a way to organise this under the CAP. As far as D66 is concerned, that is desirable. I'm not going to make any motions about it right now. We're not going to talk about it now, either, but I'm sure I'll get back to you on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u8	Okay. I see a question from Mrs Ouwehand. I'd let you, but this is a VAO. You have discussed with each other in a general discussion. We're not gonna do that again. Mrs. Ouwehand, it's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u9	I was a little provoked by the fruit machine. I would simply like to ask Mr Groot whether he will support our motion for a resolution on satsumas. It contains exactly the same words, but actually even more concisely, as in the motion that D66 supported in the European Parliament. It also responds precisely to the call I am constantly hearing from Mr De Groot in debates. It's a very cheerful motion and maybe it comes from a fruit machine. But the question is: will D66 support them? Because it's what D66 wants, that's what I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u10	D66 has been betting on two things. Firstly, we are following the official bodies when it comes to the admission of funds. This is regulated by EFSA and the process in Brussels. That is what the Brussels Group is about. Secondly, D66 has always focused on the use of the medicine. It is not so much the remedy itself, but the frequent use outside agriculture, which is now being combated more and more effectively, both within agriculture and in a systematic way. I have also gone into this in detail. That's two different things. The Party for Animals confuses it. It comes with a testimony as if we here as politicians know better than the bodies we have created for that purpose. If these authorities are wrong, we must change the procedures. Whatever we have to do, that is stated in the motion for a resolution Dik-Faber/De Groot (21501-32, No. 1053)... is new scientific insights, when there are, very quickly re-evaluate. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u11	That's what we're all gonna have to do for now. Then we'll go to Mr Futselaar, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the general discussion I spoke with the Minister about the European intervention stocks of milk powder. One of the options discussed is to process it into biomass. The Minister's reaction was, I paraphrase a little bit that it is very complicated and that the discussion is going on. At least that's how I heard her. I always find it useful when the Chamber gives a minister something in European discussions. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a debate at European level on what to do with the nearly 400 000 tonnes of European intervention stocks of milk powder;]] [[noting that this option is the processing of milk powder into biomass;]] [[considers that this scenario would be a waste of food and would, in addition, make the previous intervention a kind of subsidy;]] [[calls on the government within Europe to take the view that intervention stocks for milk powder should not be processed into biomass, and preferably not into feed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-1079]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the contribution of the Chamber. First of all, I should like to comment on the motion in part No. 1078 by Mrs Ouwehand on satsumas. I can almost say that Mr De Groot has already given a great deal of my answer during the interruption. As Mrs Ouwehand knows, we have just had a very detailed scientific assessment of the effects of this substance. That assessment has led to the authorisation of renewal of the active substance at European level. We have always followed this legal procedure. That is why we do not want to undermine the outcome at the moment. At the same time, I have repeatedly stated that I myself want us to move towards a more integrated plant protection system, with prevention and non-chemicals, and only with chemicals as a final element. In addition, I would like to focus on low-risk means. That's what we're really doing and taking steps in front of it. For this reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u14	The motion in part No. 1078: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u15	I have heard Mr De Groot's comment on the advisory services. I will hear what else he will bring in during the debate. Then the motion to part No. 1079 by Mr Futselaar. Mr Futselaar has almost been served at his beck and call. Last Monday I contributed to a debate at the Agriculture Council. That is where this issue has been discussed. We have indicated, as I said during the general consultation, that we would like to see milk powder stocks phased out on the market. In this way, we can ensure that stocks do not become extremely market-distorting. At the same time, we retain the value of the food. I myself asked the WUR, the Wageningen University, what are the possibilities for that. So we are already actively working on it and actively looking at what contribution the Netherlands can make. This motion asks me to say that stocks should not be processed into biomass at all, and preferably not into animal feed. That's just too strict a request. I would like to point out that we in Europe are now working very actively on what Mr Futselaar is asking for. I think we should make every effort to apply this method, the phased marketing of milk powder, rather than saying very radically now: this or that is absolutely not. I can't rule it out, but we'll do everything we can to prevent it. If I can explain the motion that way, I can give her "judge chamber." In fact, I almost executed her. If Mr Futselaar insists on an absolute ban on this, my margins have become a little too narrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u16	Let me check with Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u17	I can live with "we'll do the best we can to prevent it." I think the Minister gives a similar explanation. I agree with that interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u18	Okay, if that's the interpretation, I can give this motion "judge chamber." Mr Futselaar may have to change the motion, but that is more a possibility I am giving him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u19	With that explanation from the Minister, the verdict on the motion to the Chamber is. Mr Geurts may, exceptionally because he is not the author of this motion, put a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u20	It's a new subject, Mr. Chairman. It is about the current intervention stocks. I take it that the Minister does not take an advance on the future with this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u21	Definitely not. The motion refers to the almost 400 000 tonnes of European intervention stocks of milk powder. So that's this intervention, where the Netherlands also thinks it's important that we shape it in a good way. We have offered our own knowledge for it and are doing the best we can to prevent it from actually getting there. I cannot rule out that this is happening, but I have read the motion in this way and I would like to give it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mr. Futselaar, you were out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u23	Purely for Mr Geurts: the motion was also not intended as an advance on the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u24	No, colleagues, we're not gonna argue with each other. You will do so at another time, at least not with me as chairman now, because I am allowed to regulate it differently here. Are you ready, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u25	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u26	Yes, that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-5.u27	The motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday. The next item is the debate on the reduction of the insect population in the Netherlands. We certainly will, but I propose a very short two-minute suspension.
