ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the United States' decision to abolish net neutrality. A warm word of welcome to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate. Thank you for joining us. We have six speakers from the Chamber, all of whom have three minutes of broadcasting time and we have a maiden speech. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Azarkan of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about the abolition of net neutrality in the United States. This means that Internet providers will no longer provide neutral content transfer services, but will be able to offer their own services at higher or lower rates or at a higher or lower rate of transfer. Ultimately, this can lead to less freedom of choice and higher rates for consumers and businesses. We are pleased that the Secretary of State stated in the letter of 12 February that he was in agreement with the DENK Group. The Secretary of State raised the important principle of net neutrality on the Internet with the European Commissioner for Digital Economy and Society, Mrs Mariya Gabriel. The European Commission has indicated that it will continue to protect European net neutrality. It also indicated that it would share concerns about developments in the US and their possible negative impact on a free and open internet. Can this step be taken as a new barrier to trade which the US is now putting in place? Could the Netherlands, or the EU, submit this to the WTO Disputes Committee? I am considering tabling a motion on this point. A group of over 200 companies and organisations has warned against the negative consequences of this action by President Trump. The relevant letter discusses the emergence of a patchwork of local monopolies that will hinder innovation and competition at the expense of consumers. Net neutrality is cherished in the EU, as in Chile, but the clock is now reversed in the US. And only two and a half years after net neutrality was introduced there. Mr. Chairman. I have some questions. What are the consequences of removing net neutrality in the US for the European Union, for the Netherlands and for the Dutch citizens? Does this also affect Dutch companies in the US or abroad? And if so, which one? Is it now directly or indirectly more difficult for Dutch companies to sell content? Is it true that it can become more difficult for European companies to participate in the market in America? Is it possible for Dutch developers to find it more difficult to get their online products or services under way in the US, because it may be necessary to negotiate with providers? In any case, we do not want small and new parties from the Netherlands and Europe to be put at a disadvantage if they want to approach American users. Mr. Chairman. I also read that in the U.S. 22 states, including New York and California, have initiated some kind of objection procedure against the decision of the US regulator, the FCC. Can the Secretary of State tell us anything about this procedure? Is it true that the same FCC has relaxed US privacy rules before, namely in spring 2017? Has this possibly affected the misuse of the data of 90 million Facebook users? Could this have affected the abuse of Dutch Facebook users? Mr President, I will conclude. With Internet service providers no longer falling under Title Two, but under Title One of the Communications Act, they will have to comply with less stringent rules. Could this lead to more data misuse? This theme is, of course, extremely topical. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. Maybe we could have a hearing here with Mr. Zuckerberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u4	Excellent proposal, Mr. Chairman. I think he'll come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u5	I call Mr Weverling of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. In December last year, the US Federal Communications Commission, the FCC, announced that net neutrality rules would be repealed in the United States. This has a negative effect on a free and open internet. The VVD is therefore pleased that once again it has become clear that net neutrality is of great importance in the Netherlands and in Europe. We would like to thank the Secretary of State for her letter, in which she shows that she shares this view. It expressed its concerns at the Telecom Council last December. In addition, a group of MEPs sent a joint letter to the FCC expressing the same concerns. We are also pleased to hear that the European Commission has indicated that it will continue to protect European net neutrality rules. I have a few questions for the Secretary of State. First of all, to what extent does the Secretary of State have the opportunity to do something about this? As far as the VVD is concerned, this is an internal matter for the United States, regardless of the discussion that is now under way. I think it would be good if we had no illusions that we could reverse the decision here in the House of Representatives today. There is still a great deal of uncertainty about the precise impact of repealing this regulation. Various scenarios have therefore been outlined in the media. Let me give you an example. A foreign provider may be put at a distance by this decision. The Internet provider, or even the American state, can go so far that you can only access the net if you are willing to make customer data available as a company. I ask the Secretary of State if she can undertake to investigate this potential danger and to inform the Chamber in writing at a later date. Thirdly, is the Ministry aware whether Dutch companies operating in America will be affected by the decision? If so, how many companies are involved? And finally, to what extent does the Secretary of State think that the decision of the FCC affects the Dutch internet user? Will a Dutchman who uses an American service in our own country, for example Netflix, be hampered by the FCC's decision? So far, Mr. Chairman, I leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you. Then there is our joyous moment today: Mr Alkaya's maiden speech. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Almost half a century after the foundation of the Internet was laid in the United States, the Internet connects almost half of the world's population. Our lives are hard to imagine without the Internet. We use it daily for our work and in our spare time, to share things and to speak with each other. With this, the Internet has become a kind of utility. And just like my energy supplier can't distinguish between the electricity I use for my television and that for my vacuum cleaner, so Internet providers shouldn't be able to distinguish between the internet I use to watch movies or, for example, for social media. There is net neutrality. This principle guarantees free access to the Internet for all and the vast majority of society is better off. We have more freedom of choice, our privacy is better secured and small internet companies have a better chance of competing with large, established companies. Unfortunately, however, the benefit for society is not decisive in capitalism, and certainly not in the extreme right-wing variant that US President Trump is pursuing. If there is more money to be made in capitalism by abolishing a good principle, that is what happens; that is what history teaches us. Unfortunately, the free internet has also not proved immune to a small group of rich people around US President Trump. That is why net neutrality was abolished in America in December, purely because Internet providers can make more money. Now they can not only ask customers for money for their internet connection, but they can also ask for money from websites and internet services. If they refuse to pay, they can simply block those websites and services. Higher costs and less choice for ordinary people, ordinary Americans, and more power and more money for a small group of powerful people around the president. In the Netherlands net neutrality was already laid down in the law in 2013, when mobile Internet providers tried to make WhatsApp pay, and otherwise block this service. It was right to stop this at the time. But the Internet is a global phenomenon; what is happening in America today can also have influence here in the Netherlands tomorrow. Soon the evaluation of the European Net Neutrality Regulation will have to take place. First of all, I would like to ask the Secretary of State: is the abolition of net neutrality in the United States also being used by Internet providers today to advocate the abolition or relaxation of the rules here? In her response, the Secretary of State also expressed concern about the abolition in the United States. But what exactly has she done in recent months to make her concerns clear to the Americans, other than that she mentioned this once in the Telecom Council in the EU? Exactly how fast has it run to protect the principle of free internet and net neutrality? Have the possible consequences for the Netherlands, for example for small entrepreneurs here, and what we could do about it been mapped out? What if indeed, as other groups pointed out, American companies are going to decide to influence Internet traffic towards the Netherlands as well? What then are the means that we can use here towards the Americans? Has that been mapped yet? Mr. Chairman. It's been two and a half months since I was installed as a public representative. Every day it is an honour to stand here as a socialist and defend principles such as net neutrality, which are good for a large group of people in society. I am standing before this large group of people, not that small group of rich people, who only want to make more money by speculation or, if necessary, by boyfriend politics. And yet that small group still reaps virtually all the benefits of our economy. I feel the responsibility to contribute to another economy, one that is there for the large group of people and not one that, the other hand, employs people in economic growth; economic growth that they themselves see little of. While the world and our economy are changing faster than ever before, I still see, unfortunately, that many politicians are running behind the facts that large companies are already being called "a few." This neoliberal attitude of the 1980s does not mean that we, elected by a large majority of people, but a small group of billionaires and shareholders are shaping our societies. In particular, I would like to conclude with an opinion from Ernesto Che Guevara: "Let the world change you, and you can change the world." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you. A maiden speech as a maiden speech should be, with immediately sharp questions to the minister, a bit of ideological passion and another personal note. And you took 35% extra air time. So I predict a great future for you. It is my honour and pleasure to be the first to congratulate you, and then the others are next. I'm gonna suspend for the congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u10	If Mr Verhoeven sits down again, we will listen to the next speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mr Graus from the Group of the Party for Freedom. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can be very brief about this debate. First of all, I would like to congratulate my colleague, Mr Alkaya, who has also become a bit of a buddy in a short time, on his maiden speech. I was allowed to preside over a general discussion in which he was allowed to speak one of the first times. I spoke to him after that general meeting. Most MPs come in here like some kind of bridge classmates, like bridge peeps. What surprised me was that immediately during that general consultation he was a kind of nestor. It was like he'd been there for years. I let him know that back then. I can't believe how quickly he made this his own. My compliments on that. I agree with the words of our chairman. Very good luck and a lot of cooperation, Mr. Alkaya, I say through Mr. Chairman. Now back to this debate. After several speakers, we now know what net neutrality means. Then the people, the viewers and listeners know that, too. We did not support the request for the 30-member debate on the United States' decision to abolish net neutrality, because we believe that this is an internal matter. My colleague from the VVD just said the same thing. It is up to the United States to decide. We never want people to interfere with us either. That's not what we're talking about. We did not support the request for this debate, nor did we have any further input. I'd like to leave it at that. Of course I am curious what the consequences are, but that has already been asked, so I don't have to do that. I'm curious. Our lovely Secretary of State will explain the consequences for our country. I'd like to take note of that. I'd like to leave it at that. Amen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u12	Amen. I call Mrs van den Berg from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u13	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Alkaya on his maiden speech with a nice mix of the subject matter and a personal note. Mr. Chairman. It will be clear that the CDA is in favour of net neutrality. We welcome the fact that providers should not interfere as gatekeepers with services that consumers use online. In this way, services are treated equally and no obstacles are created for smaller providers of Internet services and for the innovation of services on the Internet. The Netherlands was at the forefront of net neutrality and now net neutrality has become commonplace in the European Union. The CDA does not consider it to be a good development that the US regulator, the FCC, has decided to abolish the net neutrality rules. We think it is a good development that the cabinet and the European Commission share these concerns. We still have some questions about the consequences for the Netherlands and another question about the concerns in the United States itself about possible espionage by the Chinese government via Chinese telecom companies. The CDA is curious to see if the Secretary of State can give a little more insight into the consequences of this decision by the US for the Netherlands. Is it true that in the longer term the Netherlands will also be hampered by this because the supply will become less innovative and because newcomers will be less likely? In any case, we thank the cabinet for expressing the Dutch concerns directly at the European Commission in December, and we hope that pressure from Europe will help the US to make a different decision. We understand that the U.S. government is working on a bill that makes it impossible to use Huawei and ZTE's telecom equipment within government agencies. The planned measure follows concerns due to possible espionage by the Chinese government via Chinese telecom companies. Are these concerns also in the Netherlands and, if so, how does the Netherlands deal with this? Furthermore, we would like to hear an update on the state of play of the bill Amendment of the Telecommunications Act to prevent unwanted control of telecommunications. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u14	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Verhoeven of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Congratulations to Mr Alkaya. I'm actually a little jealous that he gets to give his maiden speech on such an important subject as net neutrality. Back then, I had to give my maiden speech about squatters and since then, my career has been squeaking and cracking. So I hope he'll keep it neat and neutral over the next few years. Good luck with that. D66 has been committed for years to an open, free and secure internet, whether it is limiting government intervention in the Internet, making devices connected to the Internet safer or changing net neutrality. Fortunately, more and more attention is being paid to ICT technology and digitalisation. This cabinet has a very ambitious digital agenda to seize economic and social opportunities and cope with risks. This Secretary of State is one of the most important tractors. There is also a great deal happening at European level. Yesterday 25 Member States in the European Union agreed to invest in the development of artificial intelligence. So things are moving in the right direction, but sometimes there are also setbacks. An example of this is the reason for today's debate, namely the abolition of net neutrality in the United States. Moreover, this proposal needs some nuance, for as many as 36 states have opposed that abolition and some have already introduced their own Net Neutrality Act or Regulation. Yet, at federal level, this abolition is and remains an undesirable development. I am pleased that Mr Azarkan van DENK has seen this as well and has requested this debate. I regret that Mr Graus is actually a little limited in his contribution in this debate, although he normally raises a lot of issues. I am especially pleased to hear that CDA and VVD have now become warm advocates of net neutrality, because that was different in 2011. In short, the Chamber is actually quite united on this issue. I would say that we can therefore ask this cabinet for a number of things in this regard. I told you, cybersecurity and cyber threats are already high on the Chamber's agenda, but what about this subject? I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. Is it prepared to raise the issue of the abolition of net neutrality with its American counterparts, not only with the federal government, but also with the various states? That is where the most potential for progress and improvement lies. Is it prepared to seek support for this position within the European Council, in order to raise this issue with the US as a whole? Finally, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to outline the consequences and possible disadvantages for Dutch and European companies in the US, but I believe that this question has already been raised by several colleagues. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u16	There is another question from Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u17	What was unclear to me was the point of those 36 states which apparently consider different rules with regard to net neutrality.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Perhaps Mr Verhoeven can say something about that. I understand the FCC actually prohibited that. Mr Pai has indicated that they are not allowed to do so, because it is about federal laws. In fact, it becomes very complicated when things change in 36 of the 52 states. So how hopeful is that remark that that really gets us something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u18	You're right about the quote you're giving. That is why I am also saying that the abolition at federal level is an undesirable development. So let's start by trying to deal with that first. But there is also hope, because 36 states have said that they do not think this is a good way forward. Some have even gone a step further and have already introduced legislation or regulation on net neutrality, which has already entered into force. The FCC probably said that it should not, but it is good to see. We're all thinking, okay, America, that's Trump, so federal, so net neutrality is screwed over, so that's it. But it's not like that. In the much more nuanced picture it appears that many states attach great importance to net neutrality. That was actually more the point I was trying to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u19	Thank you so much. I'm gonna suspend until 3:15, and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u20	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u21	Mr. Chairman. In the documents, you found a letter that I sent to the Chamber in February to inform you about the situation surrounding net neutrality. As is well known, the US regulator, the Federal Communications Commission, the FCC, has decided to withdraw the national neutrality rules. It's just that this hasn't been dealt with yet. That's why we're kind of arguing in some kind of nobody's area. A large number of you have rightly pointed out the importance of net neutrality, and no matter how suspicious and negative this decision is. But it's not quite clear how it's gonna work out in the end. For example, if the decision of the FCC has been implemented, US Internet providers may give or delay certain services on their network. Such a decision could have serious consequences for American citizens, their freedom of expression and their free access to information and freedom of choice, as well as for providers of Internet services. This is also the reason, but you all know why we in Europe have the net neutrality regulation. Internet providers should not behave like gatekeepers in order to influence end-users in their choices for the use of certain Internet services, apps or websites, for example in order to promote the provider's own Internet service. Mr. Chairman. Mr Weverling of the VVD gave, to some extent rightly, what we can do about this and Mr Graus also asked how we would look at it if America were to interfere with us. At the same time, however, it is a subject that has not just been given its place in the European Net Neutrality Regulation. That is why I also specifically asked Mariya Gabriel, the Commissioner, for this, especially in response to your Chamber's request on 29 November. Fortunately, there are more people who are concerned about this. MEP Schaake, together with 48 other MEPs, explained by letter and in a visit to the US Congress why this decision was unwise. The European Commission has also expressed its concerns. At a telecoms conference in a panel, Commissioner Ansip defended the need for net neutrality for open and equal access to the Internet to the President of the FCC. And I hope, of course, that the decision of the FCC will be reversed, or through all the different pending court cases, or through the US Congress. A number of questions have been asked. For example, Mr Azarkan raised the question of whether this decision could now be seen as a trade barrier that could be submitted to the WTO Disputes Committee. I think it is an interesting idea, but this requires a legal analysis, so I will return to your Chamber in writing. Mr Azarkan also started in this debate on the abolition of the privacy rules by the FCC and whether or not it contributed to the leaking of data by Facebook. At least, I think that is what Mr Azarkan meant. It's not entirely clear to me. I suspect it's about privacy rules. He's supposed to be with the minister of JenV about that. For the next time, because I would of course like to serve the Chamber with all the information it needs, it is perhaps an idea that I will be informed in advance, so that I can provide you with the right answers even if I am standing here. Mr Azarkan also asked about the various cases and possible new US legislation. There is a great deal going on here in the United States. Several legal proceedings have been brought against the decision of the FCC. These cases have been brought by attorney general of more than 20 states, but also by industry and by interest groups. All of these are now merged into one big lawsuit. Several states are now looking for loopholes in the law and see if they can enforce net neutrality in their procurement contracts themselves. The U.S. Congress can still decide to make its own legislation. Senator John Kennedy has already put forward a proposal for this. All in all, the struggle for net neutrality has not yet been fought. Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked by Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Van den Berg about the impact on Dutch and European companies in America. As I said in my introduction, it is not yet entirely clear, because it is all still under discussion and research is being carried out into how this will work out in the end. Of course, I am monitoring, through the National Entrepreneurship Service and the Washington Embassy, whether the Dutch business community operating on the American market needs information about the future situation and possible consequences, should it really lead to the abolition of net neutrality. Questions from both organisations have not yet led to insight into concrete problems of concrete companies. Apparently, it's waiting there after all. On the other hand, that is a bit in the spirit of the debate on the Brexit, which we had last week, of course, there are opportunities. While it is becoming more difficult for innovative new Internet services in the US, it also offers opportunities for the development of innovative Internet services in the Netherlands. It's to be hoped they're listening to it now. You can't know. I come to Mr Weverling's questions. Let's see... So I just answered that question. Mr Weverling also asked what it means for the Dutch internet user. Some of you have asked that question. Will a Dutchman who uses an American service in our own country be bothered by Netflix? Netflix is an American company operating on the Dutch market. Netflix is protected here as a content service provider by the European Net Neutrality Regulation. The content that Netflix offers is stored in the Netherlands. By storing data in the Netherlands, the Dutch user of this type of service is not affected by the decision. Mrs Van den Berg asked me whether the Dutch government would also ban Huawei devices. I am currently working with the Ministry of Justice and Security on a digitally secure hard and software roadmap. It contains the first building blocks to take the lead as the Netherlands in promoting digital security of devices. In general, the Dutch government monitors the international security situation, both in the physical and in the digital domain, with a view to Dutch national security. If that is the case, appropriate measures will of course always be taken. In my view, Mrs Van den Berg also asked for the amendment of the Telecommunications Act to prevent unwanted control. When's that law gonna come? I'm just finishing up. The proposal will soon be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u22	A question from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To return to the previous point, I understand that Netflix must comply with the rules that we have here. These are the European rules, because it has also stored its data in Europe. However, it is not unthinkable that there are services whose data are stored in the United States. My question to the Secretary of State is: are these services also subject to the rules we have here? Or can American internet providers influence the services stored in America if used by Dutch users?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u24	The debate is about net neutrality. It's about free access to the Internet. I don't understand what storage has to do with the subject we're talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u25	Suppose an Internet service like Netflix, only in this case not Netflix but another service, has the movies on a server in the United States, and an Internet provider like AT&T or Verizon does not receive any extra money from that Internet service and therefore decides to offer or block that service more slowly, can they do so abroad? Can they do so if Dutch users use these services? Or can they only do so in the direction of users in the United States?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u26	The decision that has been taken and is not yet being implemented means that Internet providers in America will soon be able to distinguish between the Internet traffic that is related to their connection. That then affects the Internet in America, so how it is streamed and what is streamed. How that will ultimately work out in practice is just not clear at the moment. But that it will have consequences for the Internet there may be clear. That is why, in America, there is still a long way to go before everyone agrees with the proposed decision. I sometimes look at it with surprise. Everyone knows that this has a negative impact on innovation and competition. You always make a wonderful plea for communism and socialism, but the advantage of competition is... Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm trying to say it nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u27	You say it very nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u28	Yeah, that's nice, isn't it, Mr. Chairman? The advantage of competition is simply that it challenges companies to come up with new products. Competition leads to lower prices for consumers. So it's not all bad, I'm just saying to Mr Alkaya through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u29	We're getting ready for a nice ideological debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u30	A brief personal fact: I do not remember making a warm plea for communism. We're a socialist party. I can explain the difference to the Secretary of State if she needs it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u31	I'd say, why not now? Bring it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u32	No, no, no, no. We're going to see Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u33	We know from other debates that the Secretary of State comes with a note of digital connectivity for the summer. She has just indicated that we will soon be getting more information about the telecommunications control law. The Secretary of State has said that digital security hardware and software are being developed. Can she give a timetable and indicate when the Chamber can get a closer look at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mrs Van den Berg now refers to the digital security roadmap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u35	Perhaps for the sake of clarity: earlier we talked about the note on digital connectivity, which comes before the summer. Is this part of that? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u36	This is all connected in the end, but the note digital security I want to go to the Chamber for the summer. I believe that this would have brought me to the end of the first-term questions that were put to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u37	That's great. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. Mr Azarkan did not, nor did Mr Weverling. I call Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u38	Mr. Chairman. Even if it's just to take all the compliments and thank everyone for the lovely words. I look forward to a good cooperation in the coming years. I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that net neutrality has been abolished in the United States;]] [[Considering that the European Commission is required to review the Net Neutrality Regulation by 30 April 2019;]] [[noting that the Netherlands cannot prohibit zero rating under this Regulation, despite the fact that this is contrary to the stricter Dutch legislation on net neutrality previously in force;]] [[calls on the government to continue its efforts for net neutrality and a regulation that also allows for a ban on zeroing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-33-694]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u39	Mr. Chairman. The Alkaya motion, in which the government is asked to continue its efforts for net neutrality and a regulation which also allows for a ban on zeroing, I do not recommend. My predecessor and your Chamber have made every effort to maintain the ban on price discrimination, as is still stated in Dutch law. But as you know, that's gonna go away. This does not mean that all forms of zero rating, or the free provision of services, are now possible. The cooperation of European telecoms regulators has established guidelines on how supervisors should assess a zero rating case. So under circumstances, the judgment may still be that a specific form of zero rating is not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u40	The Secretary of State presents a good idea of how the process works and how it works. Thanks for that, but I haven't heard from her what she actually thinks. In the AO Telecom we also once talked about zero rating. We remain stuck in how the process works, but zero rating really undermines the principle of net neutrality. If the Secretary of State shares this view with me, the motion calls on her to use the evaluation, which will also require our opinion, to make such a ban possible. I know we can't right now, and we've tried.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u41	Guidelines have been adopted on 30 August 2016. These are used when assessing specific zero rating situations. For positive price discrimination, as that is zero rating, these guidelines state that this form is possible, provided that it is not contrary to the principle of non-discrimination and that the rights of end-users are not restricted. This is a regulatory framework and it is not necessary to include it in the new regulation, if only because there is no majority in favour of it. This was discussed in Europe not so long ago. That's what finally came out of it. The objective that Mr Alkaya hopes to achieve lies in the guidelines of the organisations that monitor that regulation. That is why I do not see any need to include this now, and therefore I do not recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u42	Mr Verhoeven still has.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u43	I do regret that the Secretary of State has now really fallen into procedural... gibberish, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u45	Because this is actually a matter of saying that you agree with the spirit. This was also the position of the Netherlands in the past, and now we say: this is a minority and there is another way in which we are likely to achieve this. Can we not just send out the signal once that the Netherlands still believes that we want to ban zero rating?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u46	Yeah, you can always send out all the signals. Let me put it positively: if there is a battle to be fought, then I am your wife. My answer was not only about the procedure, but also about the content. The regulation states that BEREC, the European Supervisory Authority, should adopt guidelines on this issue. Those measures were adopted on 30 August 2016. Specific cases of price discrimination are based on the following principles. Zero rating can be very nice for a specific consumer; let's not forget that with each other either. However, if there is a specific case of zero rating, the situation will examine whether there is a breach of the principle of non-discrimination and whether the rights of end-users are being restricted. So this is a test in the current regulation. Then, of course, with all the love of the world, you can argue for something that the vast majority said not so long ago: we do not want it. I don't think that's wise. Let us fight for the points in which things really go very wrong on the content. This is not the case here, because of the guidelines adopted by the European Supervisory Body.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u47	Fine, that sounds like a nice closure to me. Mr Verhoeven, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u48	It's a nice closure. I also understand that the Secretary of State is in this position, but let us not forget that having a minority position can help in this kind of debate. Just getting net neutrality in the law as a second country in the world and as the first country in Europe has received a lot of countries in that movement, with great admiration and appreciation. One of her predecessors, a member of her party, was the one who fought for it. So I would have expected a little more from this Secretary of State than to hide behind a solution that might lead to the same thing, but above all it is motivated by the fact that the battle in Europe is difficult to fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u49	The efforts, including those of my predecessor, and the guidelines used in the assessment of price discrimination, are then somewhat wronged, because they look precisely at the content, namely no discrimination and the interest of end-users. This means that the content is secured at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u50	Fine. Thank you. I'm glad you were with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-7.u51	So much for this debate. On Tuesday we shall vote on the motion. I'm gonna suspend for a moment and then we're gonna talk about the social workshop.
