ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the repeal of the Advisory referendum Act, Section 34854. I warmly welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and welcome the people in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate in a different way. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Raak. He is speaking on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u2	What did the minister see when she looked in the mirror this morning? Did she see a D66 man who had sold her soul in exchange for a ministership? Did she see a mayor in wartime? Or didn't she especially see a paladin by Prime Minister Rutte? He wants to deprive the citizens of a democratic right, but is not prepared to defend it here in the House of Representatives itself. It's a black day for democracy. The first Liberal Prime Minister Thorbecke brought our country the right to vote directly in 1848. Under the liberal Cort van der Linden, we were granted universal suffrage in 1917. Mark Rutte wants to abolish a democratic right today by putting an end to the referendum. Minister Ollongren, his right-hand man, is here today to take the chestnuts out of the fire. Today is a black day for democracy. It is a day when citizens are deprived of a right and people are silenced. And why? What did people do? What crime have we committed? People have said no. We once said no to the government, to a proud elite. Once we said no to the interests of multinationals and a smug cabal in Brussels. Once we said no, for our own democracy and not for Mark Rutte's friends. That's why we're being punished. That is why citizens should not correct their directors: the law for a corrective referendum of D66, the Labour Party and GroenLinks must be put in the trash as soon as possible. And that is why people are no longer allowed to advise politics. Together with the VVD, the CDA and the Christian Union, D66 wants to throw the existing consultative referendum in the garbage can. The Prime Minister called it "inherently logical" that the government wants to abolish the referendum without the people being allowed to speak on it. He called it "inherently logical" because the government is against the referendum. That is an interesting idea: people no longer need to have an opinion because the government already has an opinion. Does the Minister share this view? Is that also her idea of democracy? I admit, you see it all the time, in dictatorships. If Putin has an opinion on anything, the people are also supposed to remain silent. There, too, the law is being used creatively to push through the sense of the government. The current Referendum Act is very clear on the issues on which no referendum can be held. This law isn't there. The current Referendum Act does not state anywhere that a repeal law could not be the subject of a referendum. There is nothing in this law that says that this democratic right must be taken away from the people without their having to say anything about it. If Mark Rutte says something makes sense, it doesn't mean it's true. If the Prime Minister finds anything, that doesn't mean it's democratic. What does this minister, the guardian of our fundamental rights, think? Why does she, as D66 Minister, get so excited about the VVD? For example, why doesn't this minister listen to Alexander Pechtold? I don't know where he is. Rutte's gone. Pechtold's gone. When we debated the introduction of the referendum, Alexander Pechtold spoke fine words, for example about being corrected. I quote him: "Being corrected is not fun, but sometimes it is useful and certainly necessary. Moreover, the possibility of a referendum being held means a stick behind the door which, as it were, puts forward its shadow and forces us to listen even better to the people." Those were wonderful words from Alexander Pechtold. How does the Minister feel about that? Or of another beautiful quote by Alexander Pechtold of the time about the discontent in society: "It would give people a little more self-government. It would spread power a little more. It could do something about the discontent about the relationship between politics and citizens." What does the Minister think of these words by Alexander Pechtold? Or the attitude of political parties against the referendum? Alexander Pechtold also had wonderful words for that. "Unfortunately, some parties do not need the referendum," he said. "They are not willing to give up their power and give influence to the people," said Alexander Pechtold. "They cling to an ever smaller ice shot, while the need for change is only increasing," said Alexander Pechtold. What melting ice flop is the minister on? We have had one referendum on a treaty with Ukraine, which, according to this minister, I quote, 'has not brought Dutch politics what was expected of it'. That is why the referendum must be abolished. But then who is Dutch politics? The people who said yes in the referendum, but were heavily outnumbered? No, they didn't get their way. That is the result of elections. But the people who said 'no' in the referendum and were in the majority did not get what they wanted either, because the government brutally ignores the outcome of each referendum. It is true that the referendum did not bring what was expected of it, but that was not the fault of the people. That was the attitude of the politicians, who do not want to take any interest in the choices of the people. Not in 2005 in the referendum on the European Constitution and not in 2016 in the referendum on the Ukraine Treaty. And now we have a government that has the guts to say already that it will not care at all about the referendum on the drag law, on which we will vote on 21 March. A big finger at the population! The problem is not the referendum, but scared politicians; a proud elite who thinks they know better than ordinary people. And a parliament that is afraid of the people is not a parliament, but it serves other, wrong interests. According to the government, the referendum cannot be reconciled with our representative democracy where Parliament has the final say. But almost all countries in Europe have a referendum. Yes, Belgium and Bosnia are not, but do we really have to go along with that? The voters elect the House of Representatives, the people who have to represent them. In a referendum, those same citizens, those same voters, can advise or correct their MPs at a time when people's representatives make decisions that the people do not want at all. That is precisely the crown of our democracy. A crown that this minister is about to break. Not because the referendum does not work, but because it works far too well, in the government's view. Not because it affects democracy, but because it strengthens our democracy, something our government does not want, because so many politicians are so afraid of the opinion of the people. And yes, they really say it at the VVD, the CDA, the Christian Union and D66: ma'am, sir, for you it's too complicated, you don't get it, you're too stupid. But, Mr President, we have had to listen to these self-declared smart people for far too long. Because many university-educated people do not like the referendum, all other people in the Netherlands have to keep their mouths shut. Those same self-proclaimed smart people, who first made a law for a referendum, do not know how quickly they have to put this democratic right back in a deep drawer after people have once spoken. Why? Because they're foreign to the world because they're scared and insecure, because they see how stupid they are themselves. It is not for nothing that this law is being dealt with now, just before the referendum on the drag law. Because in this way, the government is also trying to frustrate this referendum, in advance. If it's Mark Rutte, there'll be a tow law, but no referendum. If it's up to the Prime Minister, the government can know everything about the people, but politics doesn't want to listen to the people anymore. Mr. Chairman. This debate today is at the heart of our democracy. Who owns the Netherlands? Who's got the last word here? I say: if you don't want to hear it, you have to feel it, especially politicians who refuse to listen. On 21 March, the people will be able to express their views. Vote against the drag law and for the referendum. People can say no. For our democracy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you, Mr President. We're gonna hear from the minister what she thought when she looked in the mirror this morning. I was thinking early this morning, you know what, I'm gonna put on my funeral suit. It's a black day. It includes a black suit. Luckily, I'm not wearing much. No matter how you turn it, it's a historic debate today. It's historic because we're going to put the clock back to 1966. What has been built up in decades of democratic renewal is today being demolished by the party that built it, the party that today attacks its own livelihood. That too is historic. Today is a day of loss and mourning. We are losing an important instrument in our democracy. For 200 years we have had the same political system, since the time of the tractor barge. The introduction of the referendum is the only political innovation since Thorbecke. Today we're turning back the clock. We're gonna party like it's 1866. The referendum could have been very important for democracy. A collective interest. It is not the solution for all the ailments and not magic, but it is an opportunity to deal with the looming errors of our parliamentary system. In case the parliament makes decisions that only appeal to a minority. Theodore Roosevelt, the President, said: I believe in referenda, not to destroy the representative system, but precisely to correct it when it is no longer representative. Alexander Pechtold argued at this place: "Initiation of forms of direct democracy, such as the correct binding referendum, would be an important addition and make the Netherlands more democratic. The referendum is not an attack on parliamentary democracy, but a modern addition to a 19th-century system at a time of globalisation and the Internet in which the world is changing more and more rapidly. It would give the population an emergency brake to correct the legislator or adjust it in the meantime." No PVV could have said it better than the penthouse prophet. D66 was established for direct democracy. We saw Hans van Mierlo in that legendary video about the crisis in our democracy walking along the Amsterdam canals. He is therefore rightly referred to by D66'er Boris van der Ham as the father of the referendum. Van Mierlo, for example, wanted referenda on the Betuwe Line and the Maastricht Treaty. I wish we'd done it. Other leading D66s, such as Hans Gruijters, Jan Terlouw, Thom de Graaf and Boris Dittrich spoke out for the referendum. I found a nice 2005 interview in which young, enthusiastic, fresh, promising Minister Alexander Pechtold expresses his unconditional love for the referendum. He has just arrived in The Hague as Minister for Administrative Renewal and is going to put the ideals of D66 into practice. This is the moment. I quote the first sentence of the interview with the new minister: "The new D66 Minister Alexander Pechtold wants to give the referendum a new chance." Quote by Pechtold: "It is an extremely interesting tool: to hold a consultation on a subject that really lives among the citizens." I quote the journalist: "All of a sudden Alexander Pechtold sits in his office at the gray Ministry of the Interior on the tip of his chair. He talks passionately about what he has to do: to give citizens resources so that they have more say in the administration of the country, so that they actually have influence on that administration." And he, Pechtold, hopes that in the referendum on the European Constitution there will be a high turnout later that year so that, according to Pechtold, others eagerly want to apply this form of participation more often. Question from the reporter: "Is the referendum back on the political agenda?" Answer: "It's never been over for me. A referendum is a means of increasing citizens' influence. In Switzerland, they don't do anything else. It's a drug that's incredibly interesting." End of the paper. I'll tweet it later. It's nice to read. It became a glorious ministership, by the way. Prime Minister Balkenende referred to him as the minister for bacon and beans. But this aside. Fast forward to 2018. The elite are now driven by a panic fear of the people, demophobia. The canal belt feels threatened. Every night they look from behind the curtains or the plebs already robbing and looting through the streets. The panic is palpable. The sweat of fear can be smelled all over the Netherlands. The people think wrong, vote wrong, and therefore should remain silent. I'm quoting a lot of D66s today. Just one more: Boris van der Ham. He says, "You notice fear of the citizens among highly educated people. That's where the fear of referenda comes from." He speaks of a sad, empty leadership. Well, ma'am, it's up to your partymates. It's not an incident. See last year's New Year's speech by Miss Ollongren of the D66 branch of Amsterdam. There it has an anti-democratic, anti-legal and anti-constitutional position in principle, namely: if the wrong party wins the elections, then that is the PVV, then Amsterdam must become a separate republic. Borders for Amsterdam are then much needed to keep the tokkies out of the door. She only likes elections when osm wins, our kind of people. We see it in her Ien Dales lecture from two weeks ago, a speech steeped with fear of the people, for people she puts away as "populists," for whom she has an all-encompassing, irrational blind hatred. We see it reflected in its rigorous plans for even more municipal reclassification of local government even further away from the citizen. We see it in her fight against the so-called fake news; the plebs are too stupid to weigh information themselves, the people must remain silent and slaves turn in their organs. Preferably the damsel single-handedly amputates our vocal cords; we say the wrong things anyway. According to D66, our entire people are brain dead by now. Our democracy has a complete life, that party says nowadays. Why the blind panic? What's the rush? On the basis of this law, we have had only one referendum, namely on Ukraine. And then we have to pull the plug right away, based on one experience. D66 has it in his election program. On this basis, therefore, the present group has been elected. I quote: 'When a new instrument such as the consultative referendum is used for the first time, we embrace it and learn from it. We don't stand as the other parties at the front to argue for discarding it." Watch that condescending "other parties." No, we, D66, are superior to those other parties. Remember, Chairman, that seven out of ten Dutch people want the referendum. It's still popular. During the last parliamentary elections, the Dutch voted massively for pro-referendum parties: 90 out of 150 Chamber seats. Demophobes 66. Why isn't there waiting for Mr. Remkes' state commission? That committee is actually already breaking a small lance for the referendum. The funny thing is that the basis of the party remains faithful to the referendum. What does a D66 municipality like Haren do if it wants to oppose an annexation of the city of Groningen? Well, a referendum. The local D66s are very happy to be able to defend themselves against the policies of genosse Ollongren in this way. Executing your own crown jewel: that should be done by royal means, in a neat, orderly manner. Especially when it comes to a law on control, more democracy. A law intended to empower us is abolished by firmly silenced us. The knife goes in, the knife crashes. And there's a huge rush. After four months, this cabinet has done nothing at all, no new laws, no new policies. It's just demolished a minister and demolished this referendum. This law is a mockery. There's no serious justification whatsoever. Why the hell do we have to get out of the referendum? Well, Ollongren comes to three arguments after hard pressing. One: the law has not brought what was expected of it. Yeah, why? What expectation? And who recorded it? How was that quantified? I don't read anything in the old law about an expectation. What would show that this expectation has not been fulfilled? I'd like a statement from the Minister. That's my first question. For the viewers at home: I never get an answer from this minister; pay attention to whether this might happen at some point. Argument two: the law has not been able to ensure a pre-emptive referendum. Again, who has ever seen this law as an advocacy? It's not in the law. This too has been dragged with the hairs. It's bullshit. I quote another D66, Thom de Graaf, who said in the course of the examination of this law in the First Chamber: this consultative referendum is a separate instrument, not related to the decision-making referendum. You shouldn't be such a jock, Madam Secretary. Third argument. The citizens seem to think that the outcome of the referendum will be binding once the threshold for entry has been met, we read. Okay, again the question: what does that prove? Numbers, please. If that threshold is the problem, change the threshold. Come up with a reasonable alternative, D66. Arguments of nothing, dragged with the hairs to carry out the basic idea that the people should remain silent; purpose reasons. I would say, if the law is not right, improve it; come with adjustments and do not throw us back in time. The Council of State asked for a better justification, but it did not, except for a reference to the coalition agreement; a circular reasoning. Normally, a law doesn't go into law until it's in the Official Journal, but this law is a trick made up. He goes into retrospection at the ratification by the First Chamber. Only then do you have a law that you can oppose and in that law you state that you cannot oppose it. The people must remain silent and as soon as possible. However, Professor Voermans, to whom we were allowed to listen in a hearing, I would like to quote the basic logic that a referendum can be held on the repeal of the referendum law. He calls the current construction legal magic. He even says, "It's illegal." Mr. Chairman. Indeed, there can indeed be a referendum on this law. The mischief of the damsel doesn't cut any wood. See, for example, Articles 4 and 8 of this Advisory referendum Act. I call on everyone to collect signatures immediately so that we can hold a referendum on the referendum. The organizers should simply go to the Election Council. Let them refuse. The government is bound by the general principles of good governance. For example, it must carefully prepare and take a decision and legal rules must be applied correctly and consistently. Professor Voermans also mentions the principle of legal certainty. The government's gonna make a mess of it this way. There is no beginning of motivation, while the government is also committed to it. Mr. Chairman. Resuming. This minister is driven by a blind hatred of what she calls "populists." The young lady, however, lacks the intellectual abilities to define what that is, populism. Frits Bolkestein did. According to him, populism is the one-sided fixation on short-term interests to the detriment of long-term interests. According to this definition, Minister Ollongren is a true populist, for she thinks she can get rid of this law very quickly, but in the long term she risks, I quote, political science professor Tom van der Meer, a reduction in confidence in politics and an increase in political cynicism. It is beyond any irony: the party, founded to bring citizens and politicians closer together, has become a populist party that ensures that citizens and politicians drift further apart. 50 years ago, someone wrote: "We must make a revolution before it breaks out, a silent revolution, which digs channels from the citizens and their frustrations to the centers of power, and that by peaceful means. That is the great challenge for a new policy." That man was Hafmo. Mr. Chairman. I'm wearing my funeral suit today. Hans van Mierlo is only truly buried today and direct democracy with him. The damsel is the gravedigger. I remind her of a proverb: digging something with a pit for another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Bosma. I now turn to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Why be so afraid of the voter's advice? Why so much fuss about a consultative referendum, an advice that you can take next to you? Then why is this repeal law? And why put this innocent, non-binding instrument in the trash so urgently? It is not a matter of great urgency, but of great care. This is a young instrument in our democratic system and it is about the voter's confidence in our democracy. For the 50PLUS Group, the consultative referendum is only a modest addition to a more direct democracy. And now it has to be abolished again, even before the instrument has got off the ground, even before the state committee has drawn up its final report and even before any evaluation has been carried out, even by way of derogation from the European countries around us, which almost all have a form of referendum. I have asked for half an hour's speaking time to express our deep concern at this repeal law, but have the cards not already been shaken? The negotiators agreed at the formation in their closed chambers that there would be a line through the consultative referendum. And that is strange, because we know from polls from Maurice de Hond and De Telegraaf, among others, that a large majority of Dutch voters want to keep the consultative referendum. And it's also weird that government party D66 goes along with this. I'm quoting from her election program. "The analysis of D66 in its founding years still makes sense. Democracy and public administration must be thoroughly renovated. So when a new instrument such as the consultative referendum is used for the first time, we embrace it and learn from it. We are not at the forefront as other parties to argue for the rejection of this renewal." End of quote from the program of D66. D66 went one step further in her election programme. Not only an advisory but also a binding referendum should be possible. I'm quoting again. "In addition, D66 wants the population to be given the possibility, as an emergency brake, to stop legislative proposals with a remedially binding referendum after Parliament has adopted them." Somewhere between the election results and the coalition agreement, things went wrong. The way D66 is in this, we believe, illustrates exactly how necessary the referendum is. And why? During the Second Chamber election you vote for a person, with behind it a fist-thick party program with all kinds of demands and wishes. And everyone understands that working together in a coalition is giving and taking. But on what points? That's the key question. Suppose as a supporter of direct democracy you chose D66, precisely because of their position on direct democracy. Well, then you'll feel pretty abandoned if it turns out that's exactly the point of change. In a referendum, you vote on a specific subject. Then the voter can correct this kind of blunders. That is why we need a referendum to complement representative democracy. To our system of giving and taking during coalition discussions is a major disadvantage. Theoretically, it is possible to forge a government agreement with merely minority views. The CDA and the Christian Union want x, but then D66 wants y. The VVD then demands z again. How'd it go? What did D66 win in turning in the consultative referendum? It won't be clear for a while. What is already clear is that the consultative referendum has been killed. That while a majority of voters are in favour of the referendum, as several polls have shown. So it is not just a question of deleting the consultative referendum. It is a direct attack on democracy, not to mention a three-stage missile. First of all, the smallest possible step towards more direct democracy is being knocked down. Secondly, a minority position is being pushed through. Thirdly, coalition discipline is a major obstacle to our beautiful dual system. Or maybe it's not a race after all? Maybe there are D66s who believe in their own election program. Maybe there are D66s who are remorseful of conscience and who also believe in that beautiful dual system. The cabinet is really something else than the parliament. Maybe they'll dare. After all, it is only an advisory referendum, an opinion of the electorate. The results do not even need to be followed. We're gonna see it at the votes. I understand, by the way, that the D66 Group in the Senate is different. They don't just take over the coalition agreement one-on-one. They do appreciate our dual system. Senator De Graaf said at the General Political Reviews in December: "The cabinet will, if the bill for the abolition of dividends tax reaches this Chamber, still need some persuasion to convince my group. The same applies to the intention to repeal the Advisory referendum Act (...)." That gives the House of Representatives of 50PLUS the hope that this race may not have run yet. Theodore Roosevelt said it a century ago. Mr Bosma also mentioned this. Perhaps it is the most famous quote about the referendum. Roosevelt said: "I believe in referenda, not to destroy the representative system, but precisely to correct it when it is no longer representative." That is exactly what 50PLUS advocates: the consultative referendum as a correction to representative democracy. Another fine quote comes from the American writer and feminist Emma Goldman: "If voting changed anything, they'd make it illegal." Translated: If voices actually changed, it was long forbidden. The gap between citizens and government is widening; it is often said. Politicians don't keep their promises. Once chosen, the voter disappears from sight. But the government is there for the citizen and not the other way around. In a democracy, the will of the majority is decisive, taking into account the position of minorities. The people are sovereign. Citizens should therefore be able to have the final say on laws. We can do that through a referendum. That is why the government should be a strong supporter of referendums. Are we still doing what we have to do? Are we still doing what the majority want? These are questions that can only be answered after a referendum. Not once every four years, but as far as 50PLUS is concerned four times a year. Why? Because the referendum provides support for policy and for more public debate. Because the public debate is getting more business under the influence of referenda and because a referendum is about a defined case, while in election debates all issues are chaotic. Because in a referendum democracy politicians cannot afford to leave groups of citizens behind. And because in a referendum democracy each issue has to find its own majority. That majority is formed ad hoc each time. One time you're with the winners, the other time you're with the losers. This is contrary to a purely representative system, in which the ruling majority can get anything they want and the opposition often sits there for bacon and beans. Mr President, that feeling of bacon and beans was also felt by our group when we saw the Minister's answers to our earlier questions. The questions went to the minister on 19 January and three working days later, on 24 January, we already received her response. That's faster than fast. The minister seems to be in a hurry, but we already knew that. Here too, hasty haste is rarely good. The answer to the questions of 50PLUS was not satisfactory. Sometimes a question was removed with a forgery. For example, the 50PLUS fraction wanted to know why no proper evaluation was carried out prior to the withdrawal. For 50PLUS, an evaluation is part of a careful legislative policy. The Minister's reply was brief and strong: "The cabinet points out that it is about abolishing the instrument and not about developing it further." The 50PLUS fraction distances itself from this. A proper legislative policy must be accompanied by an evaluation. A starting instrument certainly deserves to be evaluated by the Cabinet, just when one considers that it does not work as expected. In the explanatory statement, the Minister writes that voters do not understand enough that the outcome of an advisory referendum is not binding. The dedain with which the voter is spoken is very disturbing to us. We are also disturbed by the way in which an alleged problem is abused as an argument for abolishing the instrument. If the evaluation would show that the voter does not fully understand it, why not organise a broad public campaign to better inform people? The 50PLUS group therefore also asked a very specific question. Why is there no information campaign if it is an objection? No answer was given to this question. A serious proposal was simply ignored. That's pretty easy. Sometimes our questions were also dealt with with with a word game. When we used to respond to Johan Remkes' statements in his interim report from his role as chairman of the parliamentary system committee, we got the answer that it was a problem exploration. Mr President, what is this about? In the problem exploration, the State Commission has repeatedly expressed a positive view of the potential strength of the referendum. An advisory referendum can bridge the gap between the cabinet and the citizen. We want a response to that and then before the referendum is abolished and not after. Then there was another question that was not answered by the Minister at all. She said our question wasn't on the agenda. I will not dwell on this, because we want clarity now, both on the way in which our group is being lectured and on the missing answer. The question was this: "There has been only one country in the post-war history that has ever repealed a referendum law, and that is the GDR in 1968. With the repeal law, the Netherlands finds itself in the illustrious company of so-called democracies such as the German Democratic Republic. The 50PLUS Group would like to receive a comprehensive comparison between the repeal of the referendum law by the GDR and the repeal law now before us." So much for the question we asked. The Minister's answer was: "The Netherlands has long had a democratic system, whose representation by proportional representation is a core element. A comparison like this is not relevant for that reason alone." Period! Mr. Chairman. It feels like a position when the Minister says that a question is not on the agenda, because we meant the question very seriously. If we ask a question, that question is before us! It is also an important question. The GDR has preceded us in abolishing the referendum, because the 50PLUS Group believes that the withdrawal of a democratic instrument, without any prospect of a promised replacement, is a restriction on our democracy. The NRC also devoted an article to this comparison. Then why should it not be in this Chamber, Madam President? Isn't it weird that the Minister decides that? Then why is this minister sitting here? To answer only the questions she considers appropriate? With all due respect, that seems to me to be the most arrogant person in the world. The 50PLUS fraction takes this high. If questions from the representatives of the people are no longer answered, then much more is going on than the abolition of direct democracy. This will also destroy representative democracy. That is the fourth attack on democracy, in addition to the aforementioned three-stage missile. If questions are no longer answered normally, then the relationship between Lower House and the Cabinet no longer works. In our system, MPs have one or two employees. The Minister has hundreds of them. If we have to answer our questions ourselves, then it is high time we looked at them carefully. After all, my associates have been looking for the answer. Why did the GDR abolish the referendum in 1968? It wasn't just a year. A few of us remember it from our own memory, others perhaps from the history books. It was the year of the Prague Spring, the desire for more freedom behind the Iron Curtain during the Cold War. Many DDR citizens traveled to Prague that year. They also wanted to taste these new freedoms, but we all know how things turned out. On the night of 20 on 21 August 1968, 150,000 Soviet soldiers marched through the streets of Prague. In the GDR, the possibility of direct democracy was removed. That's where the referendum died silently. Mr President, please understand me correctly. Of course, with my questions concerning the comparison with the GDR, I did not say that the Netherlands is now as bad as the GDR at the time. There's no way! Those were unthinkable times, but that is precisely why we need to be alert when this cabinet takes the same measure. Then the alarm bells will ring with us. This government can promise so much when it comes to new ways of involving the electorate more in the decision-making process, but abolishing the consultative referendum is not a good start and makes the worst fear. Why are shoes that haven't even been walked in, thrown away before we have new shoes? Mr Bosma talked about what was wrecking this cabinet. He forgot one thing, the payoff, because also the Hills Law was demolished. And yes, also former D66 chamber member Boris van der Ham says on the radio today: a democratic instrument for citizens will be abolished and nothing will come of it. Double pain for Van der Ham, because the minister responsible comes from his own party. Van der Ham literally says: "We may have lost this in the coalition negotiations. That's too bad, but it happens all the time. But the zeal with which this minister is going to push it through is incomprehensible." I'm quoting a D66 man. It is difficult for politicians to give citizens something more to say, and that is why the referendum has to go. Van der Ham has a tip too. "Adjust," he says. If the threshold of 30% leads to confusion, we have to throw it out by a simple legislative amendment. He also considered it unwise that his D66 party colleague, the minister, did not wait for the results of the investigations of Remkes and his committee. We're at a turning point and this minister is running in the wrong direction. Does this Minister intend to frustrate the current referendums in advance? In our view, this glowing haste to destroy the consultative referendum is careless and incomprehensible. It also hits the ongoing referendum request on the discharge at www.stopaflosboente.nl in the heart. The introductory phase of this referendum, the phase in which 10,000 signatures were required, has been more than successful. Despite the holidays, despite the winter storms and despite the fact that it wasn't digital yet, there were not 10,000 support units inside, but more than 27.000. Almost 25,000 of them were valid. That's a record. At the introductory stage for the Ukraine referendum 13,480 valid statements of support came in and in the referendum on the drag law there were 17,162. That's an ascending sequence. The myth that the interest in the referendum is waning is not true. It's just getting started. It's a young instrument. People at home still have to learn to use it, but this minister seems to be keen to frustrate even ongoing referenda requests, for example with Article 4. It states that an ongoing request for a referendum must have passed the final stage successfully. So a request for which the introductory phase has been successful, goes into the trash. That's very acidic for the people at home. At the time they signed up, the consultative referendum was their right. The only question was whether enough statements of support would come in. But now that the number is being achieved, suddenly the question is: will my signature enter the trash? Here the rules are changed during the game. Even if that is technically possible, as far as we are concerned, it is inappropriate administration. Secondly, there is Article 6 which provides for the repeal law to enter into force at the time when the royal decree is signed and not, as is still more common, at the time of publication in the Official Journal. Mr President, do you also see that old-fashioned, already extinct grocer showing up in front of your eyes, who secretly puts his finger on the scale when weighing? With all due respect: are we dealing here with a grocery cabinet that sells the customer for a few peas less? Unfortunately, today is not about grutterswaar. It's about our democracy. Can it be one less us? It's not being asked by the client. The customer is not even allowed to express his opinion anymore. Unfortunately, the voter cannot go to another store, where he is treated fairly. The State has the monopoly and also acts as a monopolist. Is this minister going to put 300,000 signatures that are now pouring in in the garbage without cans or blushing? It's unworthy of a democracy. That is why we have tabled an amendment not to frustrate announced referenda. We are against the law, but if D66 is really going through the shredder, then at least we don't want to change the rules during the game. Will the real D66 get up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u7	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now turn to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the coalition agreement, the coalition stated that the consultative referendum would be abolished. The referendum was once one of the crown jewels of D66. Today, a D66 minister has to defend the bill in order to withdraw the crown jewel, citizens' right of advice to politics. That's crazy. It is precisely at a time when citizens want more control and are more involved in the drafting of laws that this cabinet abolishes the right of advice for ordinary citizens without anything new. If an evaluation of five or ten consultative referenda had shown that the consultative referendum would not work and that citizens would not be waiting to advise the representatives of the people, at least I could have imagined something about this withdrawal proposal. While only one, really only one referendum has been organised on the basis of this law and a second referendum is due to take place shortly, the law is now being repealed. My group considers this to be a strange course of action. Mr. Chairman. It is not only strange to withdraw a legislative proposal when there is only one case that can serve as a basis for evaluation, but a state committee has also been sent out with a mandate to look at the functioning of our democracy in a broad sense. The committee led by the King's Commissioner, Mr Remkes, has taken serious action. Would it not have been logical, as I ask the Minister, to at least await the advice of this State Commission before this bill is withdrawn? What would happen if next year the State Commission recommended that a referendum be a good instrument? Will the Minister then consider reintroducing the law? I would like a reflection from the Minister on this point. As I said, GroenLinks finds it strange to repeal an existing law because there is only one case that apparently serves as a motivation to say that the consultative referendum is not a good instrument. This is too narrow a base. It is also good to reflect on the fact that the Consultative referendum Act was an initiative law of the Chamber. An initiative law that has only been used once is now being repealed by the government. I wonder if the Minister doesn't think this is a little weird. I'm sure there's a lot to note about the exact design of the current law. Doesn't it make sense to propose improvements to parts of the law? I can imagine, for example, looking at the threshold of entry and whether it cannot be replaced by a threshold of outcome. Instead of improving the law, this minister immediately chooses to withdraw the law. I would like to know very precisely from the Minister why she chooses to withdraw the law immediately after one referendum which she is not happy with, rather than come up with proposals for improvement. That would have made more democratic sense. From the explanatory statement, I did not understand why withdrawal is better than adjustment. Can the Minister explain this? Mr. Chairman. Apart from the substantive objections we have to this proposal and regardless of the timing of this withdrawal proposal, my group also has great difficulty with the route that the cabinet is now taking. In the bill, the Minister chooses to exclude this law from holding a referendum. The Minister's reasoning is that, if you are against referendums, you are logically against a referendum on the law of withdrawal. I can assure the Minister that this reasoning is not properly understood by many people and is not considered logical. As we also heard in Professor Van der Meer's round table, it will be unreferendable to this bill to lead to even more alienation from politics. People will recognize in this proposal that politics does not listen to the citizens. That's what worries me. How does the Minister judge this criticism of the citizens? I would like to hear a comprehensive response from the Minister to these concerns. And can the Minister once again argue why this bill should be excluded from the possibility of holding a referendum? I couldn't find it. The Council of State has also expressed clear criticism of the lack of motivation in the explanatory memorandum. This proposal is also very strange in legal terms. Several state law experts, including Professor Voermans, have given extensive and convincing reasoning as to why the retroactive entry into force of this bill is foreign to state law. It seems that this route has only been chosen to prevent a referendum on the repeal law being requested. I would like a detailed explanation from the Minister as to why this construction was chosen. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the fact that the law will have to come into force retroactively and that according to the bill there is no possibility of holding a referendum on this bill, I have tabled an amendment. I look forward to a response from the Minister to my amendment. I'm rounding up. This bill will not be supported by my group for several reasons, which have just been mentioned. Unfortunately, given that the coalition has made these agreements in the coalition agreement, there will be a majority in favour. I would like to ask the Minister, if she is so keen to withdraw the referendum, to indicate what her view is on involving citizens in political decision-making. And by that I mean the broad population, not just the highly educated and wealthy participation elite. I really cannot imagine that this Minister thinks that a problem will be solved with the withdrawal of the consultative referendum. In fact, I think that, given her political background, the Minister will agree with me that we are taking a step backwards. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u9	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. Then I give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the cabinet bill to delete the consultative referendum, a plan from the government agreement and therefore also a plan with our signature. But also a proposal that D66 can support for other reasons. D66 has always worked to strengthen democracy by involving people as closely as possible in politics. Democracy lives and works when power is legitimized and people can choose power, control power and settle power, and when every Dutchman himself can participate in politics. That is the ideal of us as democrats and the realization of these ideals remains the objective of D66, but a means must never be more important than that objective. We continue to test our starting points, experience, facts and reality. A large part of our party's history has helped to achieve our ideals by means of the referendum. We now support the withdrawal of one of the forms of the referendum. Why? The cabinet states that the consultative referendum was intended as an adaptation to a correct binding referendum. The cabinet also states that, at a time when that final objective is far from being seen, the maintenance of the advisory variant is not desirable. D66 is still in favour of a correct binding referendum, but at the moment there is no political majority in favour of it, and in the meantime experience has shown that the consultative referendum is not really the instrument we expected it to be. It is not the instrument to strengthen our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u11	There you are, Mr. Jetten. Ever joined a nice smooth party and now part of the frightened reactionaries in our country. I wonder what kind of feeling that makes. I would also like to tell Mr Jetten the words of Alexander Pechtold, who spoke of parties that disagree with the referendum. Exactly what Mr Jetten is doing now. Mr. Pechtold said: "Unfortunately, some parties do not need this. They are not prepared to give up their power and give influence to the population. They cling to an ever smaller ice shot, while the need for change is only increasing." What happened? What happened in D66? What's the matter with Mr. Jetten that he's now standing on that shaky ice flop?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u12	D66 was once created to shake up our democracy, to strengthen our democracy. One of the most important proposals we have made is that, as Dutch people, we would also get a vote on directors in addition to a vote on the parliament, so that we can decide who our directors are, from prime minister to mayor. That remains at the heart of the renewal of our democracy for us. Over the years, we have said that a referendum may be a good addition. If we have strengthened that parliamentary democracy, a remedially binding referendum can be added as a kind of emergency brake. That, if you look at the past 50 years, has been a very constant line of D66 and he still is, because we are still in favour of a correct and binding referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u13	With all due respect, that's insane, isn't it? D66 has made a law for a consultative referendum and for a binding referendum and when it was, D66 said: we do not want a binding referendum. In fact, I had to defend that binding referendum there, where the minister is sitting, and D66 voted against it. Then there is the consultative referendum, also a D66 initiative. And then Mr Jetten is standing here on behalf of D66 saying nicely: we are opposed to the consultative referendum, but we actually want a binding referendum, the same referendum that we voted out of here a few months ago. There's no way that's credible, is there? What did Mr. Jetten see this morning when he looked in the mirror?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u14	D66 is still in favour of a correct and binding referendum as a real emergency brake. Why is this remedial binding referendum a better variant? Because we will then put a clear question to the electorate, namely 'are you in favour of or against the relevant law'. In such a correct referendum, a remedially binding referendum, the result of the electorate is also the result that we here as Chambers have to accept. The consultative, advisory variant, is a non-binding opinion to the Parliament, which then gives Parliament a whole discussion on how it interprets that result and how it should then turn it into political action. That is, in the end, what I think we have seen in the referendums here in the Netherlands and in the countries around us is not the way to do justice to that desired participation, because the electorate no longer understands what is happening with the interpretation of that result. That is why we are still in favour of a correct and binding referendum in our electoral programme. We had a good debate on this in September. At the end of the day, my group voted against the specific legislative proposal, because it did not contain the correct rules for a correct referendum if you ask our Members. But in the long run, our party is still in favour of introducing a correct binding referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u15	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u16	So when Mr Jetten looked in the mirror this morning, he said: I'm going to tell the House of Representatives a talk, I'm going to tell him that we are in favour of a binding referendum. While D66 made that law himself and Mr. Jetten should have been in trade-k to defend that law, but he failed to do so. And when I did, he voted against it. It is the bloody limit that they agreed a law here a few months ago and are now going to argue for it. But there is something else going on here: Mr Jetten and his kind have no respect for the opinion of ordinary people. Once people voted, once. And D66 disagreed. They're shocked that people have an opinion, that people have a different opinion than they do. This is incredibly arrogant, horribly elitist and terribly stupid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u17	Let me peel off D66's lies a little bit. Mr Jetten has just said: yes, this was a prelude to the binding referendum, but that has not happened, so this has to be in the trash. Now the entire D66 group received an e-mail this morning from Mr Dubbelboer of More Democracy in which Thom de Graaf is quoted again. He said in the First Chamber, when dealing with this law on the consultative referendum: no, it is not necessarily meant as an advocacy to such a thing he then calls a "decision referendum." Why did Mr Jetten appear here to lie about his own party?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u18	I stand here on behalf of the Dutch Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We are carrying out an electoral programme that has been established by our Members. And that election programme says that we are in favour of a correct, binding referendum. I am now here to explain why we support the government agreement in which we agreed that this form of an advisory, advisory referendum should now be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u19	No, you're lying about your own party. Because it's clear what your party meant at the time when this was being dealt with in the First Chamber. Then it was said: no, it is not at all a prelude to a binding referendum. Now Mr Jetten says the opposite. And I hear him now quoting from his election program. That election programme says: let's not go ice in one night and let's not throw this referendum overboard when it's hardly been tested yet. It has hardly been tested, because there has been only one referendum on the basis of this law, namely the Ukraine referendum. Is it not very soon to say that this whole instrument is not right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u20	That was a completely wrong quote from our electoral programme. We have made it very clear in our electoral programme that we are in favour of a correct, binding referendum. The election programme also states that D66 will not lead the way when it comes to abolishing the consultative referendum. We've never been in the lead. D66 also participated fully in the previous referendum, as opposed to a lot of other groups in this Chamber. We have learned from this and we have come to the conclusion that the consultative referendum did not work as an adaptation to the corrective referendum. And now that there is absolutely no political majority in this Chamber for the corrective referendum, we are not going to continue with the current consultative referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u21	Oh, so that's how I should have read the election program. It says, "We're not leading the way." So that actually means: we do, if someone else does, and otherwise we abolish our own crown jewel. You could have explained that fairly in some kind of package leaflet or footnote. Because people may have voted for D66 because they thought: that is the referendum party. It was in your election program. Isn't it an incredibly gross form of electoral deception that you stand here talking right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u22	As I said, and as I said in the debate with Mr Bosma in September too, our party was set up to strengthen democracy in the Netherlands. We have always said since '66: we do so by making a stronger link between the electorate and the people's representative, and by choosing our directors directly. Later, the referendum was added as an option, in addition to that strong parliamentary democracy. We are still on that line. We are in favour of more direct democracy by direct choice of directors and by introducing a remedially binding referendum as an emergency brake at the end of such a parliamentary process. That's a crisp line. I will also say later in my speech that this is a line which Mr Van Mierlo has always supported. So I think that's a clear line of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u23	Do I hear that D66 is more or less giving us an outstretched hand? Mr Jetten says that we were always in favour of this consultative referendum, but that is not feasible, and so we are continuing to fight for the binding referendum, but that is not yet feasible. Will the two of us now propose that the consultative referendum be abolished only if that binding referendum is introduced? Maybe we'll get a majority together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u24	We noted in September that there is absolutely no majority in this Chamber for such a correct binding referendum at the moment, but let Mr Krol and I keep a close eye on this together and, as soon as such a majority occurs in this Chamber, see together whether such a correct binding referendum could be held in the Netherlands. Today we are talking about the government's repeal law to end the consultative referendum. I will go into more detail in a moment as to why we believe that this is a sensible choice, not only because it is in the coalition agreement but also because the current advisory and advisory variant does not in fact meet the need for more participation, through interpretation discussions, through problems with entry barriers and so on. But I'll deal with that in a little bit more detail in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u25	Mr Jetten is beginning to speak nicely in the terms in which the CDA used to do so, 'yes, if', 'yes, but'. You are prepared to table a motion with me to call on the cabinet to present a binding referendum as soon as possible. We're gonna file that motion together?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u26	Again, there is by far no majority in this Chamber for a correct and binding referendum, so I do not think it is appropriate to talk about this now. We are talking today about the repeal law for the consultative referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u27	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u28	After everything that has been said today, why don't we take a look at what's going on with that majority? Because it is ultimately up to the Chamber to decide on it, and it would be even better if we left it to the people, because that was what it was ultimately about: what does the people think about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u29	I think it's Mrs Arissen's turn now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u30	I am increasingly surprised to listen to Mr Jetten, especially since he is also a new Member of Parliament, elected at the same time as I entered the Chamber. I am really wondering: what about your grand ideals for democratic renewal? On the website your photo is widely displayed, with the portfolio "democratic renewal" in capital letters. How does that feel to you, I say through the President, that you are going to carry democracy and the referendum to the grave today? That seems very difficult to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u31	These seem to me to be rather big words, whereas we are merely talking about the withdrawal of an instrument to strengthen democracy. I will go into more detail in a moment as to why I believe that the current consultative variant is not the way to use the referendum in a good way as a complement to our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u32	The members of the Young Democrats thought otherwise. They tabled a motion at the Party Congress in November and it was adopted: once the Advisory referendum Act has been abolished, D66 must come up with a new law for the referendum. Will Mr Jetten submit them as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u33	In our electoral programme, our members have established that we want a correct, binding referendum. Our Members confirmed this again in the autumn and also challenged the parliamentary group: keep a close eye on it; once there are political majorities to get it done, make sure that you are on top of it as a D66 group. As a spokesperson for democracy, I will certainly do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u34	Finally. But I don't have to; then I'll go to Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u35	I would like to add that I find it very sad. Hang on to your ideals isn't spent on D66, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u36	I do not understand Mr Jetten's reasoning. One time he withdraws the support under a corrective referendum and now he is clearly saying that he had actually been in favour of it, so I assume he regrets what he has done. On the other hand, one of the arguments put forward by this cabinet, by the Minister, is that the consultative referendum is seen as binding by the people. Then you have exactly what you want! That's a good thing, isn't it? Then you should actually develop it with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u37	To be honest, I find this a little cheap from the Green Left Group. It was the GroenLinks Group and the PvdA Group that first withdrew their support under the law for a remedially binding referendum. It was also the GroenLinks Party Congress that first said that we are no longer in favour of referendums. It says in your election programme that the complexity of social issues cannot be included in a yes-no question in a referendum. The D66 Party Programme, adopted by the Members, states that we are in favour of a correct and binding referendum. We are therefore more ambitious than Mrs Özütok's group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u38	I'm not falling for that distraction. You take away from the people an important existing instrument that functions and is perceived by the people as binding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u39	Mr Küzutok. Oh... I combined it with "Özütok" and "Kuzu" I made "Küzutok." That doesn't make any sense!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u40	I won't say you're new, Mr. Chairman. Social liberals rely on their own strength and the development of people. "Trusting in people's own power" is a publication by the D66 Science Bureau. I would like to ask Mr Jetten: why do you not rely on people's own strength, as a social-liberal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u41	I have the greatest confidence in people's own strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u42	If you have faith in people's own strength, shouldn't you agree to abolish the referendum as we now have? You can make a very long speech about the corrective referendum, but today we are talking about the consultative referendum, which is meant to be a stepping stone, and Mr Jetten is quite right about that. But why would you throw away the baby with the bathwater if we've only tried it once so far? Isn't that a sign of distrust in people's power?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u43	The difference between the correct, binding referendum and the consultative referendum is the crux. In the advisory variant, it is unclear at the front what the influence of the electorate is, how this Chamber will interpret the electorate's ruling and how the cabinet will then implement the advice given by the population. I believe that, if we want to put questions to the electorate through referenda, we should do so in a corrective and binding version, in which the electorate's ruling is really an emergency brake on a process that we have gone through here as a parliament. If we keep the advisory variant up, you get people voting against a law because they want to get rid of that law altogether, or you get people voting against a referendum because they want a better law. But these are all solutions that are not possible within this advisory, advisory variant. That is why we say: if you want a referendum in the Netherlands, choose the correct and binding referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u44	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u45	The line of defense has been well communicated with Mr Jetten of D66. The story doesn't touch either side. I would like to ask you to pass on this report from the D66 scientific bureau to Mr Jetten. Maybe he can read it and re-examine the ideals of his own party. Maybe it'll help him and D66 when we vote on the bill next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u46	I think Mr Jetten already has a copy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u47	I have a nice hard copy. Perhaps I could exchange them with Mr Kuzu sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u48	Can Mr Jetten explain to me how this repeal law of the Consultative referendum Act is an expression of a well-functioning representative democracy, when 90 seats are currently forgiven to parties who have made a plea for this referendum in their electoral programme and we also see that a large majority of the population is strongly in favour of a referendum? How can it be that the withdrawal of the referendum is an example of a well-functioning and representative democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u49	You can also say that voters have voted to a large extent on parties that are not in favour of a correct, binding referendum in this country. I find it difficult for Mr Baudet to conclude that there is a majority in favour of this. I don't think so. In addition, part of our parliamentary democracy with so many groups in the Chamber is that groups have to conclude a coalition agreement with each other in order to be able to govern effectively. In the coalition agreement, which includes the signature of D66, this repeal law has been agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u50	No, just to the first point: 90 seats now in the Lower House go to parties who are in favour of maintaining the referendum. In principle, there is simply a parliamentary majority in favour of the referendum. Two. You said it already, apparently it was set up in a coalition agreement. That's very interesting. This means that something that a majority of the population is in favour of and that has 90 seats on the basis of the electoral programmes can still be killed. How is that an example of a functioning representative democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u51	We will probably vote on this law next week, but I do not think that we will get to those 90 seats that count Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u52	Exactly. We must therefore note that both the electoral programmes and that which lives under a majority of the population can be sidelined by a back room agreement. So we can see that representative democracy is not working properly in this area. That is precisely what the referendum is meant for; it is intended to correct democracy in that respect, in the non-functioning coalition system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u53	If Mr Baudet asks me how you could ultimately correct the parliamentary system, my answer is: with a correct and binding referendum. Then we have gone through the whole process here and the voter with an emergency brake can finally say yes or no. During the consultative referendum, it always remains an opinion for this Chamber. We will then always have a debate in the Chamber to see what we do with that opinion. There is no guarantee to the electorate that the opinion will lead to the same result as the referendum. That's...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u54	Mr President, with permission, this is really bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u55	No, no, no, don't use this kind of language.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u56	This is really bullshit, because the only club that could decide that a council is not being followed is the Chamber itself. If we want a binding referendum, but not an advisory one, then all we have to do is say: if a Council has been given, we will consider it binding. There is no constitutional reason why an advisory referendum cannot simply be regarded as a binding referendum. So this whole line of reasoning, I have to put it another way...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u57	Mr President, if I may respond briefly. It would be unwise, by definition, to use the opinion of the population as a binding result, because you do not know which voters go to the ballot box with the idea of 'I am going to give an opinion to Parliament' and which voters go to the ballot box with the idea of 'I am going to make a binding statement'. That is why we must continue to make that distinction in the discussions on what type of referendum we are using to complement our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u58	There's just been extensive interruptions. I suggest that Mr Jetten move on. If you're gonna need to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u59	I just wanted to come back to a sentence just pronounced by Mr. Jetten. If I wait with that, I think the people at home don't get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u60	You may make your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u61	We are talking about abolishing the referendum, but I am so afraid that I have just heard that Mr Jetten wants to abolish something else. Fortunately, we have a dual system in this house. Did I hear you say that you also want to put that dual system in the garbage by means of a coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u62	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u63	Then you have your own ability to maintain that dual system, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u64	I now stand here on behalf of the D66 Group to explain why our group will support this repeal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u65	I would suggest that you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u66	Of course, I expected there would be a lot of interruptions. Let me see which parts of my text have already been discussed. Just before the first interruption, I indicated that we are still in favour of this remedially binding referendum and no longer of the consultative referendum. I would like to go into more detail as to why we consider this difference to be so important. In an advisory referendum, it is unclear what the influence of the electorate is, how much room the cabinet can and can take to take over the electorate's council, to take over part of it or to ignore it, and what the follow-up to our representative democracy should look like to give a follow-up to the wish expressed by some of the voters. I also said: do people vote against that law because they want to reject it or do they vote against it because they want to improve it? These are two reasons for voting against, which cannot be combined into one solution. This leads to discontent; discontent about the interpretation of the result, discontent about the effects of a referendum. The result is that consultative referenda can increase rather than narrow the gap between citizens and politics. Once again, the correct binding referendum is quite different. There, the passage to the ballot box is considered an emergency brake, as a correction to a complete legislative process. The present referendum question "are you for or against this law?" can then really only lead to adoption or rejection. Mr. Chairman. Parliamentary debates on referenda often refer to Van Mierlo. It happened again today. But for Van Mierlo, the ideal of strengthening democracy was at the forefront. For him too, the means were secondary. If Van Mierlo had any preference, it was aimed at direct influence on power by choosing your government alongside your representative. Van Mierlo once voted in this Chamber against a referendum motion. His speech was at the time, and I quote: 'I have never been very much in favour of the idea of a referendum, but where I kept this possibility open, it was always in a constellation in which, first of all, a more direct link would be established between the electorate and the existing institutions of our democracy'. In short, more democracy works when parliamentary democracy is strong and the voter influences who controls it. That is why D66 continues to fight for direct election of the directors, from prime minister to mayor. And it's why we make proposals for more influence and participation, from your child's school to your pension fund and the budget of your neighborhood. We remain committed to achieving that democratic ideal. The consultative referendum at national level is no longer part of this, but the correct binding referendum is. But then corrective and binding and in the order of things that Van Mierlo already outlined: as a complement to a strong parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u67	Boris van der Ham rightly referred to Hans van Mierlo as the archdad of the referendum in the Netherlands. The old Van Mierlo wanted a referendum on the Betuwe Line and on the Maastricht Treaty. If only we'd done that, because that would have been a lot of trouble to us. Van Mierlo was therefore at important moments for a referendum. But much more important is something quite different: the spirit of D66 and for which it was founded. D66 was not created to change the climate or for medical-ethical issues, the economy or whatever. It was about democracy. If you look at the referendum now, do you just see that it is an instrument that gives citizens at least the possibility of an emergency brake? That is the word Mr Pechtold literally uses: emergency brake. Then you have to say very simply that abolishing it means, what D66 now wants, that citizens get less to say and that they have less to give their opinion? In this sense, it is an attack, a reduction in democracy, and thus an attack on the ideals for which D66 was founded?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u68	I agree with the analysis that we should try to organise as much direct influence as possible on power and politics, but I have just explained in detail why we think that the current consultative variant of a referendum is not the right way to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u69	That's not true. When you say "we want a binding referendum, because otherwise we don't want to play," you just do it very simply: you take the consultative referendum seriously. You say, "You know what, we respect that pronunciation by definition." Then you have a binding referendum. Why is D66 tearing down the bit that is there and why doesn't D66 come up with alternatives to make sure we're moving forward to perhaps a full-fledged referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u70	We are now discussing the repeal of a law which is very clear on what the referendum is about, namely the issuing of an opinion to this Parliament. You can work on that, but it's still a non-binding advice. If you then choose a referendum, arrange it with a corrective binding variant, but do not try to amend this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u71	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u72	Then it's very simple, isn't it? Then you say as a parliamentary group: you know what, it's consultative; there's a result, for or against, and we just take it over? Then it did not go to the letter, but in spirit it became a binding referendum. A very simple thing will get you out of it. If that's the holy grail of D66, isn't that pretty easy to reach?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u73	The reality is that there are just a large number of political groups in this Parliament that will not use such an advisory referendum as a binding ruling. If a number of parties do, you will have a very difficult discussion: does the opinion of the electorate outweigh the democratic mandate of this parliament itself? You gotta take care of that if you want to. You do this with a correct binding referendum, but not by adopting by definition the result of a consultative referendum, because then you will not be doing justice to the purpose of the law we are discussing tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u74	Mr. Jetten, do you agree that this is the only tool for the people to make a ruling on laws and regulations? If you agree with that, but are dissatisfied with it because you just mentioned a number of points when it comes to the interpretation of the outcome, I note that there are possibilities under the current law to improve that. Then why are you throwing it all away without that being tried to improve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u75	I think the most important moment for you to be a voter is when we elect the House of Representatives. I was just a little hard on Mrs Özütok because I think she is very easily ignoring her own election programme, but there are also some very interesting things in it. I refer to GroenLinks' plea and to what Mrs Özütok often says, namely to involve citizens at very different times throughout the political process, not only at the end of the decision-making process, as an emergency brake, but also at the moment when we are still thinking about what we want to improve and how we want to do it. We want to involve citizens in politics at that time...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u76	I'm not throwing anything away until I get something better!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u77	No, no, Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u78	I think we should look together to see how we can introduce such instruments. The Minister has already promised that she will come forward with proposals to that effect. D66 makes proposals for this at local level throughout the country. I would like to work with Mrs Özütok to achieve this at national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u79	What you're sketching is all very nice, but you're throwing it away now and then there's really nothing left. That's too bad. Yet you say that you are democratically engaged. I don't feel that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u80	D66 is against this referendum because D66 wants another referendum, the same referendum that D66 voted against a few months ago. With all due respect, Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Jetten to prepare himself a little better next time so that we can have a serious debate here. If D66 is really in favour of a binding referendum, then we can take people seriously. Mr Bosma said it and I say it. Then we can take people seriously when they speak out. Is D66 prepared to take the outcome seriously in the referendum on the drag law on 21 March? So if it's a yes, it becomes a yes, if it's a no, it becomes a no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u81	Now Mr Van Raak is making the mistake I have appointed, namely that the referendum on 21 March is an advisory and advisory referendum. The voter will then deliver an opinion to this Chamber and then this Chamber will discuss and consider that opinion. D66 will participate in the campaign for that referendum. We will explain our position on this in the country, in the streets and in rooms. And once the electorate has given a ruling, we will also have a debate on this in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u82	Exactly. D66 is in favour of a binding referendum, but when people speak, D66 does not care at all. And that's the deception of D66. I'm embarrassed. But I would also like to remind Mr Jetten of the words of Alexander Pechtold in this connection. In his plea for the referendum, he said about that referendum: "It could do something about the discontent about the relationship between politics and citizens." Nice words from Alexander Pechtold. What does Mr Jetten think that the position of D66, of this Member of Parliament and of this Minister is doing with the confidence of people in politics? Doesn't he think with me that people who are watching this think "yes exactly, we can vote what we want, but in The Hague they do what they want"? Does Mr Jetten not agree that this proposal has dramatic consequences for people's confidence in democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u83	I began my speech by arguing that we are still in favour of strengthening our democracy, but that we do not stick rigidly to certain instruments and that we assess our views on the basis of experience. Our experience is that the consultative, advisory referendum through discussions on the interpretation of the outcome and the unclearness about the follow-up process in this Parliament can increase rather than narrow the gap between politics and citizens. That is why we can support this repeal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u84	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u85	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u86	D66 stands for democracy, takes a fist hammer and smashes it. And that is an attitude that a Member of Parliament is unworthy of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u87	It has just been mentioned: the archfather of the referendum, Boris van der Ham, is currently stirring on Twitter. I would find it very interesting if Mr Jetten would respond to that. It says: "Now at the debate on the referendum. There is a large majority in the Chamber on paper for maintaining the referendum, but the coalition agreement imposes a minority abolition. An example of how representative democracy does not function properly in the current system."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u88	Mrs Arissen, I actually want us to have the debate here without involving Twitter, because when we start doing so, others will also react on Twitter or in a different way. You asked your question, I can't stop it. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u89	I can imagine Mr Van der Ham looking back with melancholy at the time when he was allowed to sit on the blue seats instead of on the green.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u90	Well! It's a valued predecessor of mine on this file, and I have a lot of contact with him. I always like to discuss with Mr Van der Ham how we can strengthen our democracy. But I simply do not share the conclusion that a majority in this Chamber is in favour of maintaining the consultative referendum, because a majority in this Chamber will support this repeal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u91	Yeah, and that's thanks to D66. I would like to add that last year the Central Planning Bureau examined it: between 70% and 80% of Dutch citizens are in favour of a binding referendum. Those same people have also chosen for the Lower House and actually 90 seats, but now no longer thanks to D66 were for the maintenance of at least a consultative referendum. Unfortunately, for people, Twitter is the only way they can stir.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u92	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u93	I was already at the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u94	Oh, you were done already? Okay. Mr. Martin Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u95	You were right about Twitter. I'm just from the old-fashioned paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u96	I'm about to check that you didn't tweet too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u97	No, I wouldn't dare, Mr. Chairman! That's way too modern for me. I'm from the goose feather.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u98	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u99	Mr Jetten was also present at the hearing we had. There, for example, the politician spoke prof. Van der Meer. That was a very interesting meeting. Mr Van der Meer said that the government, by declaring this abolition un referendable and by abolishing the Advisory referendum Act itself, is risking a reduction in confidence in politics and an increase in political cynicism. In other words, people will be angry with the political system and say, "You know what, I'm gonna quit; look at it, actually." That was what I argued. Is that a point that the D66 Group says, especially in view of its history, Van Mierlo et cetera: there is something in it? Or are you laughing at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u100	I always take Mr Van der Meer very seriously, because I think he makes very interesting analyses of democracy in the Netherlands and also makes interesting proposals to involve citizens more in politics and governance. So that's what we have to watch closely with each other. But you say it correctly: there is a chance that this repeal law will lead to a certain effect. My group notes that the referendum as we have it now, in an advisory, advisory version, also leads to discontent and anger, because the electorate does not understand how the result should be interpreted, how the parliament handles it, etc. Then I'm gonna fall back into repetition. So I see the same dissatisfaction about the current version of the referendum. That is why we also support the repeal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u101	There is one thing Mr Jetten has not mentioned at all. The Minister thinks that she is arguing; I disagree - that we cannot hold a referendum on this abolition. I think that is quite a slap in the face for the voters of the Netherlands. You can argue about this law, but the fact that at least we are trying to prevent us from holding a referendum on this law is a real blow to the Dutch. This has been conceived for the power of voters, let the Dutch think along and then this is not referendable. Does Mr Jetten agree with me that the way this is going is actually a gross scandal and runs counter to the spirit of the law, namely to empower people, Dutch, citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u102	An advisory, consultative referendum on a legislative proposal to abolish the consultative, consultative referendum: I don't think anyone understands that anymore. So I understand why the cabinet has come to the point of not doing so. Moreover, I heard earlier this evening in the debate, in my opinion, Mr Van Raak said that it is very strange that we should do so. I don't think so. We have recently dealt with a bill on Saint Eustatius in this Chamber. The basis for that bill is exactly the same as the basis for this bill, so it's not that unique.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u103	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u104	That's monkey cabbage, because there was a real rush to the bill on St. Eustatius. There were things that had to be dealt with very quickly, so that comparison is totally out of place. But making it non-referendable, that we cannot talk about it, that we cannot vote on it: can Mr Jetten say that he is happy with it? Mr Jetten is now coming up with a bizarre justification, which supports the essence of my speech. He says: the people do not understand; the citizens are too stupid; the Dutch are too stupid to understand such a very simple law, which is about the abolition of something. Isn't this exactly the arrogance and dedain of the canal belt elite that D66 stands for: the people don't understand, the people are too stupid?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u105	I didn't say any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u106	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u107	You were talking about not understanding and not understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u108	I'm gonna keep going on the previous point. Does Mr Jetten agree that a law does not enter into force until it has been published and that the Advisory referendum Act has a suspensive effect on the entry into force of laws?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u109	Another proposal has been made in the repeal law and the Council of State has said that this can be done, so I understand that the cabinet has come to that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u110	I would like to ask it on its own, regardless of what the Council of State has said or has not said. I'm about to go into that in detail in my contribution. A law can therefore not enter into force until it has been announced, and at the time when a procedure of the Wrr, the Advisory referendum Act, is in progress, it has a suspensive effect. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u111	This was the case with all the other laws covered by this Advisory referendum Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u112	Now comes a new law that should repeal the Advisory referendum Act. It does say that this law is not relevant, but that law itself has not yet entered into force at the time when that procedure is to run. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u113	Yeah, because that's what this bill is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u114	Yes, and that is completely unconvincing, so we are just going to collect signatures and we are just going to force a referendum on the repeal law of the consultative referendum, because the referendum cannot be abolished without a referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u115	If Mr Baudet is going to collect signatures, I wish him every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u117	I also had this point in my speech because we are concerned about this too. I wonder whether the solution chosen in the proposal before us can be maintained. I am very consciously referring to Article 8 of the Advisory referendum Act. That is to say: "A time of entry into force of a law or part of a law on which a referendum can be held shall not be stated earlier than eight weeks after the notice in the Official Journal referred to in Article 7" The bill shall provide for retroactive effect at the time of ratification. So I wonder how this is legally matched by D66. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u118	When that was initially announced, of course we also looked forward with interest to the actual withdrawal proposal. We've studied that. We have also noted that the Council of State supports the support of the cabinet, and we follow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u119	With all due respect, this is a pretty easy defense. I am actually asking for the authentic, independent consideration of D66. I have, of course, also read in the opinion that the Council of State has its own considerations. But when I read this as a civilian, I think they're fucking me in the suit. This can't be happening. It is only after eight weeks, but it is done with a retroactive effect of eight days. I would therefore like to hear D66's own assessment of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u120	I thought Mr Bishop asked for the legal basis in his first interruption. Hence my short answer just now. I said earlier in response to a question from Mr Bosma: an advisory consultative referendum on the abolition of the consultative referendum, which we, as our group, have weighed as a referendum that you really should not hold. In our belief, that is inexplicable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u121	With all due respect for the intense considerations of D66, this is not legally consistent with Article 8 of the current law, which is still valid at the time of ratification and promulgation. And there is a trick being pulled, and there lies our constitutional and legal hesitation that it will come into force retroactively. And it can't, because it can't enter into force until after eight weeks. Maybe D66 should think about this for a while. Perhaps this will lead to a nice motion, also from the side of D66, which can then be supported by Chambers or something. That's a nice suggestion, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u123	That's how we know Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u124	I will be discussing this legal magic with the Minister shortly, but for Mr Jetten I have the following. I find it quite remarkable that he is here arguing for the abolition of a referendum that D66 itself has made, and that he is in favour of a new kind of referendum, which D66 itself had made but which they voted against a few months ago. I find his defence very remarkable, also in the light of the words of Alexander Pechtold. When the coalition agreement was concluded, he simply said openly: it is extremely unfortunate that we had to turn this referendum in, just terribly unfortunate. And the question to Mr Jetten is: what did D66 get back for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u125	That is a question that cannot be answered, because coalition negotiation is not a common trade-out between A'tjes and B'tjes, as was said earlier. You come to a comprehensive agreement, in this case with four groups. We, as a group, then said that the overall package, the coalition agreement, is an agreement that we can support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u126	It is a pity that the referendum was killed in the negotiations. If you negotiate, you give away something. At least that's what I'd do: if you give something away, you'll get something in return. Is it true that D66 gave away her crown jewels, her political soul, her democratic heart for nothing? Or did D66 get anything in return, yes or no? And if they got something in return, then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u127	Again, that's not how coalition negotiations work. It's not a common exchange, like, "I'll do one thing and you'll do the other." It's a total package that you put together with four groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u128	Mr. Van Raak, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u129	I look forward to negotiations in the future with D66, giving away everything, his soul, his salvation, without getting anything in return.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u130	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now turn to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u131	Mr. Chairman. I'd better admit it. We sometimes sigh in the group: sometimes you would like a little more SGP. Fortunately, I hear this more and more regularly outside the group. So we look forward to the elections. In any case, we have sometimes lost sight of this when we deal with this bill in order to repeal the referendum law. At all those times when referenda were discussed, we have consistently and consistently indicated that we are not in favour of referenda. I have looked at it again, and I can just say that with praise, because it was all for my term of office, except for one. In 1997, in 1999, in 2002, in 2003, in 2004, in 2009, in 2010 and even in 2013 I was there myself, we have always brought in: people, don't get started. This has perhaps been said in many other consultations. Why not? In our view, Referenda does not tolerate itself well with a representative democracy. We say invest in representativeness. That's what you're gonna do as a group. As parties, you have to spend a lot of time and energy on that. Another important objection is: referenda simplify reality into a black and white pattern. A third objection is: the result is often subject to several explanations. We saw it at the Ukraine referendum. So with some verbal magic you could also say: well, we can also get around it. The final objection is: there seems to be a very clear difference between a legally non-binding referendum and a legally binding referendum, but in practice that difference appears to be flimsy. I will illustrate this in a moment with a quote from Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u132	Mr Bishop just said that we believe in a representative democracy and not in referenda-like forms. Can he explain to me how representative democracy in the Netherlands could work in his view if we found that the political parties that have the referendum in their electoral programme have 90 seats in the present House of Representatives? We also see that an overwhelming majority of the Dutch people are in favour of the referendum. If we observe these two things, should we not conclude that the representative system apparently has a problem, contains an error, is lacking somewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u133	This question illustrates exactly the nuances you need to keep in mind when talking about referenda. It is too easy for me to say: look at these election programmes and add them together, then 90 seats of this Chamber represent a yes for the referendum. Yes, but in a very nuanced form. This cannot be expressed in this way or in a referendum. Those nuances are gonna go missing. It has to be, because you have to come to a clear question, and then preferably a clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u134	I'm sorry, but there's nothing nuanced about this whole discussion. 90 Chamber seats come from parties whose electoral programme states that they are in favour of the current Wrr. The same goes for D66. See page 157 of their election programme. So it's not that it's more nuanced. It is quite clear that 90 MPs were elected here on the basis of a programme which states: we want to maintain the Advisory referendum Act. A large part of the Dutch population wants to keep that law. If the House of Representatives abolishes this law now, it is proof that representative democracy is not representative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u135	As I said, this is too digital for me. There is a majority of political groups that are positive about referenda. That is partly happening here now. Only, that doesn't mean it's happening unbiased. That does not mean that it must remain as it is and that these fractions have committed themselves to the existing practice with skin and hair. I'm not going to defend it, by the way. I am not defending the party programmes of these groups either, but I would like to put my finger on the nuances. I do not think we should lose sight of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u136	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u137	Mr. Chairman. Now to Mr Van der Staaij's quote that I promised. He said at the time: "Whatever is done with the results, something is always wrong. Or it's completely taken over and in fact considered binding. That actually requires a constitutional change. Or you say, "We're not gonna do anything with it." It's advisory, and we're gonna put it on the sidelines. But then it is a pacifier and it can only lead to a widening of the gap between citizens and government." That's pretty much what we've said all those times. The proposal for abolition leads us to a number of questions, concerns and considerations. The first question is: why can you say, on the basis of one example, the already mentioned Ukraine referendum, that referenda do not work so well? That is what we are going to do. Or you believe in referendums and accept people's statements, even if you don't like them so well. Or you don't believe in referenda and then you don't start. Now the repeal of the referendum law seems to be a kind of punishment for apparently a wrong result and the problem that many people have the idea that a no in the referendum will also ensure that the bill is not passed. It is not such a strong motivation to come up with this proposal. It is more an opportunity argument than a convinced no to referenda. Or, in the meantime, is the government really convinced that referenda are not such a good instrument, I ask the Minister. In short, is it a more pragmatic choice or is it a fundamental choice? This is, of course, a very interesting question for the SGP, certainly in conversation with a minister of D66. A second point is this. If, after one referendum, the possibility of holding it is abruptly abolished, the risk of alienating citizens from politics is imminent. I told you, it's seen as some kind of punishment. Has the government seriously considered how work is being carried out to reduce the distrust of some citizens in government and politics? What concrete plans are there, then, as an alternative to abolishing the government's referendum to involve citizens more in the legislative process? The positive involvement of citizens in the process can increase the support for it, even more than a negative instrument if the referendum can do so. However, care must be taken to ensure that the forms of participation are primarily a matter for the highly skilled native Dutchman. There too, there is a major flaw in the referenda as they are possible at the moment. The SGP is particularly interested in the proposals of the State Commission on this matter. A third point is the important question of the referendability of this bill. We have just discussed this in the interrupting debate. However much we reject the instrument of referenda, it is a question of whether it really makes sense to exclude this bill from the possibility of a referendum. We would like to present this approach from the SGP. You can find a lot of it, but it is a choice that can be made, should not be made mandatory. Deviation from the referendum law through a separate law is possible. This was also given earlier by the Advisory Section of the Council of State and by the proposers as a possibility. So the SGP has no problem with that in itself. But if, as the government does, you think it is logical that no referendum can be held on the repeal law, you still have to settle it in the right, legally final way. And the SGP has the impression that the government has made it unnecessarily complicated in this bill and that the unrest about abolition is actually only getting worse. Following the ratification of this bill, but before it enters into force, there is in principle the possibility of holding a referendum on the basis of the current law. There is so much you can do in this bill, but there is nothing you can do about it before it enters into force. After all, the referendum law still exists. The government will then have to decide on referendability within seven days of ratification, on the basis of the applicable law. Does the government share this legal thinking? It goes too far to discuss Article 7 and Article 8 of the current referendum law and the deadlines I have just mentioned in the interruption. I'm just gonna leave that out for a little while. I hope, however, that the Minister will respond adequately to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u138	However, I am curious to hear Mr Bisschop's opinion on this, because Article 8 of the current law states that the entry into force cannot be made earlier than eight weeks after the announcement in the Official Journal. For example, a deadline of eight weeks is needed to organise a referendum. The second paragraph of the same article states that if this does not happen, if the withdrawal falls earlier, the withdrawal shall be automatically suspended...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u139	... until the day following the expiry of that period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u140	Exactly. And that seems to me to be the case here. Does Mr Bishop agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u141	Yes. That's exactly where the stinger is. I'm not a lawyer, but I think this article requires you to take care of it. You can overcome that by adopting a law in advance, which we have suggested, which stipulates that a new referendum law is not referendable. That didn't happen, because it's governed by the law itself. That's not possible. It means that you ratify it and allow it to enter into force, but with retroactive effect. That's a very wonderful figure. If I remember correctly, that's not exactly what the Council of State advised either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u142	Thank you very much. I think it is very important that this is discussed and expressed in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u143	Thank you for that question, too. It seems to be a small matter for lawyers, but this has to do with legislative responsibility. No matter how you feel about it, this has to be done carefully and conclusively. This should not be a separate subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u144	I fully agree with the esteemed colleague of the SGP. The SGP is known for its legal gogmism. Mr Van der Staaij is also a member of Mr Bishop's group and that he says this here gives all this extra value. I think there can only be one conclusion: the Wrr is referendable, because it is in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u145	We asked the Minister for a response to this question, including a reflection on how Articles 7 and 8 relate to the opinion of the Council of State and to the choice made by the cabinet. We await that reaction in suspense. There is an amendment and I can also imagine that perhaps even Chamberwide amendments will be made. I admit that this is a great deal of red tape, but we need to do this carefully under state law. Finally, I have a question about transitional rights. The government states that the law should only continue to apply to requests whose deadline for the 300,000 declarations of support has expired. That doesn't make any sense to us. Certainly not if sufficient signatures have already been collected in an earlier stage of the process. It makes more sense to include all ongoing referendum initiatives initiated under the current referendum law under the transitional regime. I would like a response from the Minister. In conclusion, President, the SGP welcomes the rethinking of this cabinet on the subject of referendum, from the realization that it is not as beautiful as it was expected or previewed. And yes, we were reminded by Mr Baudet of the election programmes. Thank you for that. In line with our SGP election programme, we will, in principle, support this bill, which does not mean that we are not also going to look favourably at amendments. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u146	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I will now go to Mrs. Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u147	Mr. Chairman. You don't have to be in love with referenda, it doesn't have to be a jewel that you polish constantly because you're so proud of it. In fact, it can be something that actually makes you a little uncomfortable sometimes, a bit like democracy on party congresses or choices in leadership or First Chamber members who do exactly what you would like to do. But referenda can offer something to complement our democratic process in which we have the usual elections. It is a search for democratic renewal, and that is something that, I think, is very desirable in these times. My first question to the Minister is therefore: why withdraw the consultative referendum now, when, certainly after some adjustments, there are possibilities to further develop, improve and therefore make this instrument more applicable? My second question. We are still engaged in a parliamentary process, a state committee that is looking at ways of improving the individual participation of people in our country. Before the end of the year, she must present her report. Why has the cabinet not chosen to await both the evaluation of the Advisory Referendum Act and the report of this State Committee? That would be two logical choices in the light of the long tradition of D66. Mr. Chairman. I have a legal question, too. In the written round, on page 12, we already asked the question which was also raised by Mr Bishop. However, we have never received an answer to that, and that answer is essential. The repeal law provides that the entry into force is to take place retroactively. However, between the time of ratification of the law and its entry into force there is at least one day. So that retroactivity doesn't work yet. Does it matter? We think so, because Article 8 (2) of the referendum law states that an adopted law cannot enter into force until it is clear whether a referendum will be held. The entry into force of that law will then be suspended. The same applies to the repeal law. In other words, the repeal law is not in force for at least one day and the referendum law still applies. My question to the Minister is therefore: how is she going to prevent a referendum on the repeal law being held? The Council of State says "legally it is effective," but then it does not explain why it would be legally effective. It is more a spelling formula that is included than a legal explanation why that would be conclusive. Mr. Chairman. I found Mr Bishop's last question very relevant, and I would like to add briefly to that. I look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u149	Thank you, Mr President. The Netherlands has a unique democratic culture and it is in our state system, our politics and in the Dutchman himself. I have lived and worked in many countries myself. Of course, I have seen many other countries, but I do not know any country with such an open democracy as the Netherlands, with such a colourful palette of views and visions, in bright colours but also in subtle nuances. They all get a place on our national canvas. Because we have a visual, living and powerful democracy with often approachable and human politicians at national, provincial and municipal level. We even have democratic waterboards! We do not have a "first past the post" system like the British and no "winner takes it all" system like the Americans. With us things are not black and white, but finely painted. No, we have a parliament with 150 seats and thirteen parties, a coalition of four parties, and a First Chamber with a very varied composition, and in both Chambers different majorities in different areas. We have minorities and small parties, who, fortunately, have unprecedented opportunities for participation, the right to speak, the right to co-decision, and who also have a lot of influence in practice, and that is good. In this way not only the many opinions of the Netherlands are heard, but they are also incorporated together in solutions that are more than a simple black and white image. Solutions, which are a realistic representation of our society. I'm thinking about the Night's Watch. Our national portrait is not of a king or of a powerful politician, but of a dynamic group, who is jointly involved in society, for the public interest. We have a very open democracy, with politicians who really represent people. Compared to many countries I know, we are also blessed with a democracy where it is often about ideas, and where we are looking together for practical compromises. In the conflict areas where I worked, I have often experienced that politicians were only there for their tribe, for their own group, for people with their own identity. They often didn't want to talk, they couldn't talk, they couldn't negotiate, they couldn't find solutions. All of us can do that, because we have a representative democracy, politicians who actually represent people and ideas, who discuss, amend, negotiate, and ultimately determine, in continuous consultation and in close contact with society and in the full view of that society. So that referendum, Mr President, is too blunt an instrument, which may seem democratic, but it is not. Firstly, it does not do justice to the electorate. The turnout in the parliamentary elections shows the involvement of the Dutch by more than 80%. The voter's opinion is much more evident from the results of the parliamentary elections than from an opinion poll or a partial question. Parliament, composed by the voter with so much nuance, must therefore take its own tasks seriously. The voter may expect us to solve the political problems here, seriously and in conjunction with each other. The electorate does not ask for the instrument of the referendum to be used by the opposition to pursue outside parliamentary opposition and thus to oppose that democratic parliamentary process. It is perhaps no coincidence that the referendum is mainly advocated by those who turn against what is democratically established here in Parliament. This is also apparent from the fact that the referendums often have opposition to arguments which have little to do with the legislative proposal that we are talking about. Secondly, the referendum does not do justice to the problems that we have to solve here, because if you can only vote 'yes' or 'no', it is often not clear what the alternative is in the case of a 'no' vote. It's not just about being for or against a law. It's also about what would replace it. Well, I'll just mention the brexiventum one more time. Yes, a small majority of the people who came to vote wanted to come from the EU, but we are now seeing the confusion. What did you want to do instead? We don't know. The British don't know. This shows once again that a referendum offers a false choice. So a referendum, I have already said, often becomes a game of motives and interests that have little or nothing to do with the subject itself. In this way, the referendum can become an improper means of protest. It therefore does not contribute to better decision-making, but leads to confusion. It is about taking the electorate seriously and showing the electorate that we take the problems seriously. Next, it is a question of involving the electorate as much as possible in politics. I think that's what it's all about in the end. Fortunately, the electorate in the Netherlands is very often actively involved with elected representatives via e-mail, visits, conversations, media contributions, online consultations, participation opportunities, petitions, membership of political parties, interest groups and associations, demonstrations and elections. In doing so, the VVD wants the involvement of voters in the policy-making process to be increased as much as possible. That is why we also support the Remkes Committee, which is now examining the best solutions for improvement. In addition, we are very keen to discuss all opportunities to increase digital participation and actively engage in the discussion on strengthening local democracy. Finally, at the VVD we ourselves have a very open party structure in which everyone can talk and we also like to talk to non-members. I come to the conclusion. We have a unique political system in the Netherlands. This is built on the unique Dutch democratic culture. This comes from the unique Dutch people: mature and involved people. They know that the referendum may seem democratic, but is actually a far too blunt instrument. The referendum in any form therefore detracts from the speciality of Dutch democratic culture. It surprises me, having seen in my previous work as a mercenary diplomat so much from abroad, that it is proposed here that many elements of culture and the system of foreign trade should be imported into the Netherlands so as to make the Netherlands more. I say, let the Netherlands stay. We're not black and white. We don't see things in black and white either. We're richly shaken and we see things all over the place. We are the land of Rembrandt and let it stay that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u150	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans. I now turn to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u151	Mr. Chairman. In 2013, my colleague Madeleine van Toorenburg, at the time also spokesperson for home affairs, quoted the words of former chamber member Jan Schinkelshoek, who was the spokesperson for home affairs in his time, in order to oppose the introduction of the consultative referendum. I'll put that tradition on my paper "this afternoon" but it's now on tonight's agenda. It'll take a while. MP Schinkelshoek said in 2006: "A referendum is crippling and delaying and puts a premium on the way. It is an instrument to push through shared interests and embezzles responsibilities. In addition, a referendum is rarely about what it would be about." So much for Mr Schinkelshoek. Now Mr. Schinkelshoek is a man of many talents for those who know him, but in the future he probably wouldn't have described him as one of his talents. Yet he has done so as far as we are concerned. A referendum is rarely what it should be about, he said. That's what came out in practice. This was demonstrated by the referendum on the Association Agreement with Ukraine. It would be a referendum on an association agreement, on free trade, but it turned out, according to the applicants, that it was ultimately a referendum on Europe, which it was not. At least two thirds of the voters of the Netherlands did not vote for it. Since then, the vote has been reversed in relation to the referendum. The Labour Party and GroenLinks withdrew their hands from the bill for a corrective referendum which was subsequently voted away by the Chamber. The members of D66 questioned the scope of a referendum in their election programme, thereby opening the way for the abolition of the consultative referedum. The CDA Group hears itself in the words of Minister Ollongren in the letter to the Chamber in which it states that the political support for the remedially binding referendum has crumbled. At the same time, the cabinet sees that representative democracy, and in particular the parliamentary system, can count on broad social support. That is what we saw in the last parliamentary elections in the turnout. The CDA has traditionally stressed representative democracy. A referendum is not in keeping with that, in our view. It brings complicated cases back to a simple yes or no. The way in which the consultative referendum was organised has already contributed in itself to the lack of clarity. No matter how high the turnout was, people had a real expectation that the result would be binding. Instead, there was a parliamentary debate, so back to square one, in which political groups could get along with the interpretation, which could eventually turn it into a no. A worse system is not conceivable in our view. For some parties, the referendum has become a means of being right when they have lost the discussion of a particular law in this Chamber. For these reasons, the CDA Group supports the withdrawal of the consultative referendum. Mr. Chairman. Inconspicuously, the abolition of the consultative referendum also raises questions, because is the Netherlands less democratic with this, and should there not be a consultative referendum, for example, on the abolition of a referendum? In the referendum, we are not talking about more or less democracy as far as the CDA is concerned. There is a difference of opinion between parties on what democracy should be and what it should look like. If you reduce democracy, as in a referendum, to a choice of majority plus one, the abolition of a referendum can be seen as a loss. But according to the CDA's belief, democracy is different, more, and that democracy also means more. In a democracy in our Dutch context, a decision is a result of a careful debate in which the electorate determines the power ratio, but in which, because of the differences in society that we are aware of in this house, a compromise is sought to prevent the majority from being too dominant, because one day you could belong to the majority and the other day to the minority. If you take democracy as such, representative democracy will be able to do again, without a consultative referendum, what it is intended to do, and the electorate also knows where that responsibility lies: here. The voter can then reward or reject that responsibility in the polling room. Is our representative democracy perfect? The CDA cannot answer that question with a yes. No, she's not. It is also for this reason that the CDA advocates adjustments to our representative democracy. For example, you could allow the Chamber to choose partly through a list and partly through regions, in order to make those links between the people who have been elected, so we, and the electorate, directly. This could strengthen democracy in our view, and we have much more confidence in it than we have seen in the consultative referendum. We could also do something about thezzp policy in which everyone can start a party for themselves, even if he or she has been elected to the list of another party without any preferred vote in the Chamber or in a city council. Because this fragmentation of politics may not be helpful in the connection between citizens and politics either. At least, as far as the CDA is concerned. The question of whether the abolition of the referendum should in itself be referendable should not be put to an opponent of the referendum, but it is good to ask that question with care. Mr Bishop did the same. As a CDA, we have the view that we, as legislators, would be very opposed if we tabled and adopted a law that would abolish a consultative referendum and then make it possible to have another consultative referendum on it. We found that the authors of the original legislative proposal did the same. They have shown in the explanatory statement that the ultimate legal consequence of their bill may be that you can regulate in a law, by explicitly including it, that it is not referendable. However, that is a legal story with several doubts, so I await the Minister's answers on behalf of the CDA Group. But if the authors of this rather inadequate law on the consultative referendum thought that in the very legal sense a law, if it is incorporated, is not referendable, then who are we, as opponents, to contradict those great proponents of the referendum? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u152	Thank you. I am now going to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union. No, Mrs Özütok would like to put a question to Mr Van der Molen first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u153	What do you think, having just heard the discussion, of the way in which the entry into force of this law is proposed legally? I didn't hear you say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u154	I would like to refer to the last part of my contribution. We have found that the cabinet is proposing the method of repealing this law. The cabinet also asked the Council of State to advise on this. We note that the Council of State has advised positively. We think that is an important point to consider. And it is not without reason that I also refer to the explanatory statement, because that is how we have looked at it. This is, among other things, an argument as to why you would not be able to explain a law on the withdrawal of a referendum in referendable terms. I agree with the questions you and others have asked, and I have already indicated that I am also looking forward to the answer that the Minister will give in her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u155	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u156	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Madam President. Our representative democracy is characteristic of our Dutch parliamentary system, with proportional representation. The system is open and accessible to newcomers. That's what we saw in the last election. As a result, a broad range of views in this Chamber can be represented in this Parliament. It is a parliamentary system that we should be proud of, even if we compare it internationally. The democratic decision-making process is the way through which important choices are made about the organisation of our country, choices that affect people's lives. But the government cannot and must not bear that responsibility for society alone; it is a responsibility that we share with the citizens. That is why the Christian Union is also looking for ways to involve and empower citizens, within the parliamentary system as we know it in the Netherlands. In doing so, however, the Christian Union has never seen the consultative referendum as a good instrument. The instrument undermines representative democracy as we know it. In practice, it leads to a great deal of uncertainty as to what is being done with the opinion. And it leads to expectations that the verdict would bind Parliament. That would actually require a constitutional change. And in a "no" the outcome of a referendum leads to a review. Then the representatives of the people, the two chambers, will never again be free to the electorate. Once again, accepting the bill really leads to a gap with the electorate. And with that, it's a recipe for disappointment. The Christian Union Group was therefore opposed to the bill that allowed a consultative referendum. The course of events surrounding the Ukraine referendum has strengthened our group's previous view. My group is therefore pleased that we have agreed that this law will be repealed and supports the legislative proposal. I think that questions have rightly been asked about excluding a referendum on this law. It is also good if there are clear answers to that. I'm assuming that's what the minister's gonna come up with. Mr President, this step does not relieve us of the obligation to continue looking for ways to improve and strengthen cooperation between public authorities and citizens. For the Christian Union also sees that not all citizens feel well represented with their views and interests or are well represented in the administration. Our democracy is not complete, and the State Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities has therefore made this issue the core of its investigation for a reason. The Christian Union is therefore looking forward to the results of this Remkes Commission. I ask the Minister when we can see the first results of this. In the coalition agreement we have also worked on alternatives, such as a Right to Challenge, in which citizens are challenged to take over a part of the public task, such as the care of a community center or a greening facility with a budget. There will be experiments with a right to take over. These are also forms in which we can strengthen and shape cooperation between public authorities and citizens. In doing so, we can really give their control over what happens to their environment a place and really strengthen it. It is clear that the abolition of the consultative referendum for the Christian Union will not stop the search to always see how we can strengthen that cooperation between citizens and government and improve their control, in order to ultimately strengthen our democracy. We hope to find this minister on our side too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u157	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. Mrs Özütok has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u158	I have the same question to ask you. How do you look at the legal way in which this law is proposed, and in particular at the point of entry into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u159	I have just made the question very brief, because I do not want to repeat moves. I think the questions that have just been asked are simply justified questions. We have seen that the Council of State has advised that it can. We also see that there are different views on this. I am very curious about the Minister's explanation on this point, to give us clarity here as a parliament. I agree with what Mr Bishop said: it is important that, as a parliament, we fulfil our legislative task and that it is also carefully and properly structured.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u160	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u161	Mr. Chairman. A bizarre and sad day: a Minister of D66 House wants to abolish the Advisory referendum Act. How would we react in this Chamber if the SP proposed abolishing the minimum wage? Whether the PvdA would propose to abolish the right to strike? Or the Christian Union the freedom of education? The CDA's freedom of religion? Suppose the PVV suddenly wants to build mosques in this country. Or that a VVD minister abolishes freedom of speech, GroenLinks the Environmental Management Act and the Party for Animals the Animal Welfare Act. That would be weird, wouldn't it? We'd think that was crazy, wouldn't we? Therefore, my first question for this Minister: is it not bad for the credibility of D66 that D66 agrees to abolish this law? After the fact-free politicians, will the principle-free politicians also follow? This is a debate on the twist of D66. This is a debate on the electoral deception of D66. D66 was a party that, from its founding, fought for democratic renewal, for greater citizen participation. But now D66 is involved in abolishing participation; a referendum that she herself was the initiator of. D66 gets it done to put people out of play. D66 manages to deny her own ideals. D66 has grown up. The youthful ideals have been exchanged for power. The Democrats have become anti-democrats. Pechtold symbolizes that loss of ideals upon joining the established order. What arrogance, what arrogance of power. Fear of the citizen reigns. Major parties do not like the citizens giving their opinion. It's not a good time. Then they'll have to come up with all kinds of tricks to get around those people's opinions. People said massively no to the European Constitution. People massively said no to the association agreement with Ukraine. Both times, the government wriggled into all sorts of turns to ignore that no. As a result, the major parties have become afraid of the citizens. Oh, dear, if the citizen would like that! Oh, dear, if the public doesn't agree with us again! Oh, dear, if the citizen says no to our proposals in mass again! The major parties think that it would be better to abolish the entire referendum. Better to abolish the referendum than to undergo time and again that traumatic experience of those who think very differently from the government. Fear is a bad counselor. Listen to your people, I would like to say to the government, because that is the voice of the people. What harm can it do to listen to people? But the government doesn't want that. They're putting in the draft and the tow bill. They're abolishing the referendum law. The government doesn't want to listen to the people, but it does want to whisper to the people. Rutte wants to know about people, but listen to them? No, I'm not. We already knew about the VVD and the CDA, but D66 and the Christian Union are now cooperating in these dubious practices. The eavesdropping of people: made possible by D66 and the Christian Union. Abolishing the referendum: made possible by D66 and the Christian Union. According to polls from the Social and Culture Planning Bureau, 70% to 80% of Dutch people want a referendum. For decades. And then we finally have a referendum since 2014, and it will be abolished immediately. That's unique in the world. It has only occurred once before that a country, after the referendum had been introduced, has once again abolished it. That example has also been given today. That was 1968. That was in the GDR. And now also in the Netherlands. The GDR and D66: do not listen to the people, but listen to the people. In short, "DDR66." Mr. Chairman. Why is the government throwing away the baby with the bathwater now? Why have no alternatives been considered by the government, such as excluding international treaties for an advisory referendum? Why suddenly throw everything overboard on the basis of one unfortunate referendum on the trade treaty with Ukraine? Does the government share the view that there is a crackdown on this one referendum? All the questions now mentioned were not answered in the written questions. This is against the law. We would like to see an answer to this question. The Administrative Court of the Council of State ruled two weeks ago that it could not intervene in an ongoing legislative process. Once the legislative process has been completed, the Council of State can give an opinion. Is the Minister prepared to respect the judgment of the Council of State, even if it turns out that this repeal law is unlawful? In 1999 the judge deleted the pig law and in 2015 the extraction plan for gas extraction in Groningen. The Council of State can therefore also draw a line through Article V. Is the Minister at least prepared to respect an opinion of the Council of State on this matter? This amendment of the law is similar to the amendment of the Constitution by a majority of 76 to 74, which is not acceptable either. Article 8 of the Advisory referendum Act states that a law cannot enter into force until it has appeared in the Official Journal and a period of eight weeks has elapsed thereafter. Article VI is now suddenly regulating that this would no longer apply. The new law would apply immediately and work back to the moment of ratification. The government therefore violates the current law to amend this law. The rules of the game are changed during the game. This does not do justice to the credibility of politics, nor to the credibility of D66. The First Chamber will have to consider this as well. There is also a D66 group, which is not bound by the coalition agreement. Hopefully it has more backbone than the D66 group in the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. People in the Netherlands hardly have the opportunity to exercise political influence and to make their political voice heard. One of the few possibilities was the consultative referendum, but this opportunity is now being taken away from people. Soon they will be able to vote only once every few years, voting on parties that often do not do what they promise. Unfortunately, that is democracy in 2018: people are allowed to vote at the cross, but they have to keep their mouths shut. Looks like D66 wants that. Mr. Chairman. Let's try to think differently. Let's be honest and just. Let's just keep the referendum going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u162	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Democracy, the rule of law, our free and open society must be nurtured and protected, says D66 Minister Kajsa Ollongren at the now infamous Mayor Dales Lecture of 2 February. She says so, this Home Secretary and Deputy Prime Minister, but she doesn't. No, on the contrary. Kajsa Ollongren is at present the greatest threat to the Dutch democratic rule of law. Member Krol already referred to the GDR, where the referendum was once abolished in 1968 as the only other country. But Ollongren would probably have felt like a fish in the water in the top of the former GDR regime. Ollongren also wants to set up a censorship police which restricts the free debate, the free speech and the free internet. With her anti-democratic friends in Brussels, she is setting up a club that is going to trick Facebook, Twitter, Google and other channels where the open debate is being held, to explain displeasure visions to fake news and thus gradually express the public domain. With fewer and fewer people taking over the traditional media, the free internet will have to believe in it if Ollongren gets what she wants. D66, who wants to ban the new printing. What a retarded party D66 has become! Ever set up for the renewal of our democracy, now, under the rule of Pechtold and Ollongren, to become an arrogant group of mediocre dictatorial know-it-alls who want to silence the electorate as much as possible and restrict the free debate. It's getting really scary. About Ollongren's censorship police, FvD has asked 84 parliamentary questions, a reference to George Orwell's book 1984, where Ollon border proposals are beginning to look a lot like. FvD has also requested a debate which I hope can be held soon. But there is more, because Ollongren does not hesitate to demonise political opponents, despite her position as Minister of the Interior and head of the AIVD, completely unfounded and contrary to the truth and the facts and thereby endanger their personal security. I've been able to see that myself. Since when is it the duty of the Minister of the Interior to judge elected representatives or, even more importantly, to demonise them and blackmail them? According to Prime Minister Rutte, this line is now even cabinet policy. What is going on here is that Mark Rutte appointed his former personal associate Kajsa Ollongren as Minister of the Interior in a fit of insanity. Kajsa Ollongren, who has never been elected for anything, is now going to silence the Dutch electorate. Kajsa is a top official who is not used to contradicting and thinks that she can rule the country as she could be at General Affairs and play the unelected deputy mayor in Amsterdam. She snaps her fingers, and we've only got by jumping her hoops. Mr. Chairman. We have seen earlier this week with the resignation of Halbe Zijlstra that Mark Rutte does not take it all so closely with the appointment of his ministers. For years, Zijlstra took Rutte for granted about his non-existent private meeting in Vladimir Putin's datha. Speaking of fake news! But these statements, according to Ollongren, were done for his ministry and then it's not like fake news or anything. Do you still understand? In the meantime, the Minister has outdone so much hatred towards us that Theo Hiddema and I have filed a complaint against her for defamation and slander. Our party immediately experienced the consequences of its unfounded sting. Those of us who have been accused with unacceptable under-the-wraps must now decide on our additional security measures, because quite a few madmen seem to have responded to the Minister's hurried statements. You'd almost think cynically that Kajsa did this in the first degree. But if possible even more fundamental is the question: how is demonisation of political opponents to fit in with the ideal of a free and open society that it claims to cherish? How does this fit into the democratic rule of law? It was already announced earlier that Ollongren, as alderman in Amsterdam, would have said that the capital should simply ignore and put aside the wishes of the national parliament in the event of an unpleasant election result. So we really have a minister here who says he wants to serve democracy, but who in reality undermines democracy in every way possible. Because, yes, that ultimate democratic means too, the referendum now wants to abolish it. She does so with a haste that betrays nothing but blind fear of the people and the will of the people. Where are Alexander Pechtold, Lodewijk Asscher and Jesse Klaver, who are all so busy taking everyone's attention with their morally superior talk? Where are the leaders of the parties who gave birth to the consultative referendum? They shine through absence on this day when their referendum is destroyed, by Pechtold and Ollongren. Mr. Chairman. The Advisory referendum Act gives citizens an essential democratic right, namely the right to recall the legislator when it makes laws that go against his intention as a voter. That could happen again. This is because our present parliamentary representative system forces voters first of all to choose a party with a variety of positions, some of which the electorate may only endorse and some of which do not support. Our system then forces the elected parties to make a coalition agreement, in which again an inscrutable mix of all kinds of party programs is made. We saw this happen, for example, when the dividend tax was abolished. That measure was not mentioned in any election programme. Not one voter voted in favour, but that measure was announced by the Rutte cabinet without any reason. Once again, not one voter voted on this policy and every poll shows that there is virtually no support for it. Therefore, representative democracy is constantly at risk of being no longer representative and undermining the electorate's desire. It is precisely for this purpose that the referendum is intended; it then serves as a safety valve, as an emergency brake. The government keeps repeating that the consultative referendum would not have brought what was expected of it. If the government expected the people to act as an applause machine, yes, then the referendum did not bring what was expected of it. Instead, the people have shown that they also dare to be critical towards those who exercise power over them. It seems that our rulers are not waiting for critical sounds. Instead of taking the citizens' council to heart and taking advantage of it, the government chooses to turn its back on the consultative referendum after the first time it has been used. The government does not even consider it necessary to examine carefully what the instrument has actually brought and whether what it has brought meets expectations. The agreement contained in the law that the Advisory referendum Act would be evaluated quietly within three years of its entry into force has been shamelessly dismissed. In a panicky way, the instrument was chosen to be completely abolished immediately. In doing so, the Minister took out all the legal tricks to try to prevent a new referendum on this repeal law with technical tricks. For example, the bill states that the Advisory referendum Act does not apply to this bill. According to the Advisory referendum Act itself, however, the repeal law would be referendable. Under the guise of "a later law may render an earlier law ineffective," the Minister defends her dubious approach. However, it overlooks the fact that this later law must have entered into force for that purpose and that its entry into force will be automatically postponed until it is clear whether a referendum will be held on this repeal law. This is clearly stated in the Advisory referendum Act which is valid until the entry into force of the repeal law. The fact that a referendum can be held on the withdrawal, despite the Minister's toe-curious attempt to prevent it, is confirmed by, among other things, Professor of State and Administrative Law Wim Voermans. He was in Parliament yesterday and made that clear. The Council of State was also convinced that the way in which the government operates was not good, according to its opinion on the repeal of the Temporary referendum law in 2002. Strangely enough, in its opinion on the current repeal law, the Council of State makes a huge turn on this point, a gigantic and very unbelievable turn, I must say, and hides it in a footnote that its earlier advice is not correct afterwards. That happens without proper justification where that twist comes from. This turn, however, turned out to be suspiciously good for the government. This makes our eyebrows frown and we ask the Minister for an enlightening overview of all the contacts that, prior to the opinion, have taken place between government officials and the Council of State on this repeal law. If we do not receive a satisfactory response to this, we will table a motion requiring the government to make all this known. However, the fact remains that, regardless of what the Council of State says about it under pressure from any government, a referendum on the law of withdrawal would be possible if it were to be adopted. The amendment tabled by Mrs Özütok to make the repeal law referendable, which the Democracy Forum will wholeheartedly support, is therefore strictly, legally speaking, superfluous. The repeal law of the Advisory referendum Act is referendable on the basis of the law in force until the repeal law has irrevocably entered into force. It's as simple as that. Mrs. Ollongren can't change that. Mark Rutte can't change that. Even a majority of the House of Representatives can't change that at the moment, because it's the law in force. We therefore call on all voters in the Netherlands to take action against this repeal law and, once the law has been passed, to request a consultative referendum by collecting the required number of signatures. We are not letting this essential instrument of our democracy go unpunished by Minister Ollongren. The fear of the people, the hatred of the people must now be stopped by the people themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u164	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Arissen, on behalf of the Animal Party. Oh, Mr. Koopmans, you have something to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u165	With a future look, may I make a small point of order? I think we should show a little respect for each other. I think it's nice that we address the Minister as "Minister" and that we don't call people by the first name. So we can just have this debate in a little bit of a good way and we can also stick to the subject. I'm asking you to take care of that a little bit, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u166	Thank you. Mrs. Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u167	May I respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u168	No, it was a point of order. It's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u169	Thank you, Mr President. In 2005, the Netherlands was one of the five countries worldwide that had never held a national referendum. The fence shutter. In 2015, Boris van der Ham of D66 filed an initiative law with two other members to enable the referendum to be held for a long time. A year later, for the first time, Mrs Ollongren was a candidate for the D66 Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u170	Mr Koopmans has just made a comment on this. We're talking about the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u171	But then she wasn't a minister, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u172	Oh, sorry. I thought, "Now I'm gonna pay attention, but now I'm just wrong." Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u173	I was just trying to do it carefully. A year later, for the first time, Mrs Ollongren was a candidate for the D66 Parliamentary Assembly. Boris van der Ham is still strongly in favour of the referendum. But his partymate, Minister Ollongren, wants to wear it today with steam and boiling water. This is what Boris van der Ham says today on an undisputed medium: "Today, the House of Representatives is debating the abolition of a consultative referendum. Without alternative, without evaluation or without proper waiting for the state committee. It is inappropriate to deal with a democratic tool of citizens in this way." The abolition has already been achieved in the coalition agreement and will not become a free issue, as was the D66 donor law. In the meantime, we have held two referendums. The opinion of the population was in both cases no. So Rutte III, in all his wisdom, decided not to ask the population in the meantime. Rutte III abolishes the referendum immediately, without making it referendable through the tricky trick of an urgent matter, while no one sees the urgency. So much for the participatory society, the DIY, the confidence in the future, in connection with the citizen. Another more precarious fact is that we are the first democratic country to abolish the referendum. Because, as has already been said, only East Germany, in the GDR era, has previously made this anti-democratic change. Thanks to D66 and back room politics, that is what awaits us now. The four parties, three of which have included the word 'democracy' in their party name, hold in a joint agreement the last piece of confidence of the citizen in politics. In haste, the repeal law was brought together. Even the Council of State only took a lousy two and a half weeks to conclude that Minister Ollongren does not have to give the citizens of the Netherlands an opportunity to express an opinion on throwing the Law on the Consultative referendum in the shredder. The Council of State concluded this in two and a half weeks instead of the usual six-week time taken by the Council to consider legislative issues in peace and legal care. That while there are quite a few state scholars, one of whom visited this Chamber yesterday, who say that this is legally too short and that this is getting a tailtail. Mr. Chairman. Where have we seen this before? That was in 2002, in the attempt by the first cabinet-Balkenende to make the repeal law of the Temporary referendum law non-referendable. It is at least very strange that the same State Council in 2002 actually advised the opposite in a similar situation. I am sure it has nothing to do with the fact that, in the case of a law of similar consequence, the opinion of 2002 was signed by PvdA'er Tjeenk Willink and last week's opinion by CDA'er Donner, who was a very strong opposition to the referendum in the past. After all, the Council of State gives objective, impartial and legal firm advice, it is acceptable. Couldn't the Minister reflect on that? What's with this advanced insight? What's the rush?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u174	Do I understand correctly that Mrs Arissen says, or at least does she imply that the Vice-President of the Council of State would not respect his constitutional position but would make a party political assessment? It would go a long way to accusing these High Colleges of State of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u175	I just said it probably had nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u176	Then it's a very delicate implication, which I at least distance myself from. Because we're not going to assume that. If we start to doubt what the Council of State advises us, then we should do so with any advice from the Council of State and we could close the tent here. We've agreed that the Council of State is going to look at everything. They'll really do that independently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u177	As I have already said, the Council of State can be expected to give objective, legal and impartial advice. So let us wait for the Minister's answer. Mr. Chairman. It is very dubious to have the repeal law for the consultative referendum with a debatable legal trick come into force immediately in order to prevent him from being referendable. What's the rush? The Advisory referendum Act would be reviewed after three years. This summer, to be exact. A Parliamentary system has also been set up, which would deal with democracy and the future of, yes, the consultative referendum. Rutte III doesn't have time to wait for that. Why not? Did D66 permanently lose his democratic feathers? D66 apparently wanted to rule so badly with the right-conservative block that D66 eagerly exchanged his crown jewels for... Yeah, for what, anyway? With good luck a few more years on the plush, after which the penalty of voters throws the party back to start, are the three Chamber seats possible from before? Four times in the past, D66 rule has been directly followed by halving of all its ideals, with broken electoral promises and in such an existential need that the party has repeatedly argued for lifting. From the desire to be connected with the citizen, to about total blinding by the appeal of the government plush. I have a number of specific questions for the Minister. Can it indicate whether the referendum on the mortgage loan debt, which citizens are currently preparing, will still have room to proceed? The Election Council approved step one of them. Can the Minister state what she will do if there are 300,000 signatures against the discharge before this law is passed? Can citizens come forward with a new request for a referendum, for example on the very controversial law on organ donation, which was adopted in this house with the smallest possible majority and had only a very narrow majority in the Senate? Is this possible referendum for the Minister a reason to guide this law through the Chamber with steam and boiling water? Does the Minister not think it is a strange idea about democracy to change the rules of the game? What if opponents of the donor law have previously taken the first horde of 10,000 signatures on their way to a possible referendum? The Rutte III government agreement states that the consultative referendum would not have brought what was expected of it. For who? And which committee of wise men has considered this issue? Is there no need for more research to draw this hard conclusion on such a far-reaching proposal? The fact remains: although the government ignored the outcome of the referendum in both referendums, the first one on the European Constitution and the second one on the Ukraine Trade Treaty, in order to push forward the original plan, 90 out of 150 Chamber seats went to parties that would advocate minimum electoral promise to maintain the consultative referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u178	The treaty with Ukraine was not a trade treaty. It was a very far-reaching association agreement, which included military support and brought Ukraine, among other things, on the verge of membership. According to many researchers, it is quasi-membership of the EU. So it's definitely not a trade treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u179	That's right. That was absolutely not a trade agreement. I agree with Mr Baudet. However, it was framed by the government. That's all I was trying to say. The Animal Party was also a major opponent of this so-called trade agreement. According to the polls of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, 70% to 80% of the Dutch population wants the real, corrective, binding referendum to be introduced. So for whom is it such a great disappointment, after only trying twice and without proper evaluation, that we didn't call out massively yes and amen at those two referenda? The Minister may explain this to all citizens who are angry at a policy that unilaterally widens the gap between citizens and politics and abolishes an important democratic means before something better has been done. Mr. Chairman. Precisely in a political climate in which the compromise, the exchange, the breaking of election promises and the denial of your ideals prevail, referendums are needed to break the compromise that has been passed at regular intervals. It's a reality check or a wake-up call that politics sometimes needs. Theodore Roosevelt has been quoted several times, but I'm going to do it again, because it was quite right. He said: I believe in referenda, not to destroy the representative system, but precisely to correct it when it is no longer representative. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u180	Thank you, Mrs Arissen. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I suggest we suspend for an hour. After that, the Minister will answer the questions put by the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u181	We will continue with the debate on the repeal of the Advisory referendum Act. Before I give the floor to the Minister, I would like to make a comment. Mr Koopmans has already said it and I noticed it during the first period. But I thought, "I'm not gonna intervene while the MPs are at it." I want us to have this debate in a respectful manner. The Minister is a servant of the Crown. She's a minister in trade-k, not a D66. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u182	Many thanks, Mr President, and also thanks to all Members for their input in the first term. I would like to begin by saying that our national democracy has a history of gradual adjustments and transitions, and that democracy is always evolving and needs to be maintained. I believe that we can expect a Minister of State, every Minister of State, to keep a finger on the pulse when it comes to democracy, on the need to adapt and renew that democracy. I think Mr Van Raak did not mean the question about what I was thinking when I looked in the mirror this morning, quite literally. Nor will I claim that I had exactly this thought this morning, but that is what is in my head, if I am indeed in this cabinet as a servant of the Crown, with this beautiful and important portfolio. In addition to anchoring our representative democracy, the elections, which we hold locally, provincially, nationally and Europeanly, there is a range of instruments that we can involve in the democratic process. These are instruments that are not all comparable. They are instruments at national level. That can therefore also be referenda, consultative referenda, binding referendums. And they could be instruments at local level. That also includes referenda. And today we are talking about one instrument in this palette: the Advisory referendum Act. You also know that a proposal for a national binding corrective referendum, which requires a constitutional change, has recently been rejected. So in the Netherlands there is no option of a referendum correction, but the option of an opinion. However, by rejecting that bill, the corrective referendum has become a sort of target target. There is no political support for that in this Chamber. The four parties that form this coalition have all had their doubts about the instrument in their own way. This applies to all four parties in the coalition. There has also been much to do about the consultative referendum. Its consultative nature has already been discussed. There has been talk of the turnout threshold that came into it afterwards. That is a system in which it is said: if a majority says 'no' at a turnout of 30% or more, it is an advisory decision to reject it. Many voters are therefore counting on justice to be given to that ruling. But that statement only forces a review, and nothing else. The cabinet can therefore decide, considering all of this, to bring the law into force. And this is also my belief that it has led to incomprehension and even alienation of voters, as demonstrated after the civil debate after the Ukraine referendum. That is why, on the basis of this agreement in the government agreement, the cabinet also thinks it would be better to repeal the Advisory referendum Act. The instrument has raised expectations that cannot be met and has not helped to restore confidence in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u183	I think this is a general introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u184	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u185	You're not done with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u186	I have a little bit of general introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u187	Then I would suggest that you finish your introduction first, and then Mr Van Raak will have the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u188	Thank you. At the same time, we see that representative democracy, and particularly, of course, the parliamentary system, can count on broad social support. At the same time, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, I also know that the influence that people can exert on concrete issues does not always lead to everyone's satisfaction and that we have to work on it. There's actually two tracks. Both have been mentioned today by several Members. One track is the State Committee on Parliamentary System. It is at work and is due to report at the end of this year whether and how the parliamentary system meets the demands of today, in the light of increased electoral volatility and in the light of the fact that many people have a desire to be more involved in decision-making and politics. The other track is the trail of local democracy. That is what we discussed during the budget debate. A motion has also been adopted, the motion-Van der Graaf c.s. (34775-VII, No. 25), which calls for an action programme to strengthen local democracy. The municipal elections are about to take place. I think it is an important subject. I also promised that action programme. The municipality is the administrative layer closest to the inhabitants. The distance between politics and the inhabitants of the Netherlands is actually the smallest. So there are very great opportunities for connection. There are also many initiatives from the municipality. Mr. Chairman. This might be a good time to say that the introduction has ended, although I would like to make a few comments on the Ukraine referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u189	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u190	I have just promised Mr Van Raak to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u191	I'm so embarrassed to hear such a defense, such bullshit. We are going to break down a right of people to have a say and then the Minister says: the municipal elections are coming and we are going to think and we are going to do this and we are going to do that. I really think this is unworthy of the Minister! The birthright has been surrendered. What are the lentils? What was the sign? What did D66 get in return?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u192	I have just said that I am speaking here as Secretary of State, of this cabinet, of this coalition. I have just heard the chairman say: if you have any questions about D66, then the D66 Group is here. I have just argued why the cabinet is in favour of withdrawing this one instrument into our democracy, while at the same time working hard on the proper functioning of our representative democracy and considering the recommendations made by the State Committee on Parliament's system. At the same time, we want to ensure that local democracy is given all the space it needs. I'm sure everyone in this Chamber will find that very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u193	I'm getting so tired of this. A representative democracy also means that Members of Parliament can be corrected and advised, that decisions taken can be reversed or that advice given. Get into that. The minister says there are things that don't work, there's something wrong with the threshold and there might be something wrong with the number of signatures you need to pick up. Maybe it's not so convenient that you get digital signatures first, that you have to turn them off and then drive a van to Heerlen to scan them again. It's all possible. But then the government should have put forward a bill here to improve those things, to improve this law. This is a right that you have given people and that people have used once. People said no once. Then you cannot be arrogant: you are wrong and you cannot handle it; we know better and that goes straight into the trash can? Then the Minister can't come up with such a lame story, can he? Come on! Give it your best shot!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u194	In the end, it's the Chamber that decides. We are proposing a repeal law for a single instrument, the consultative referendum. It is monitoring the withdrawal of an instrument that we say is not working properly. It is of an advisory and non-corrective nature. Mr Van Raak pretends that this is the only instrument in our democracy. That is not the case. There are many times when people exert their influence on politics. The most important moment, as far as I am concerned, is the elections. I would like to say a few words about the one consultative referendum we have had recently. Afterwards, good research was done by the Foundation Votersonderzoek Nederland. He looked at what moved people, both those who were going to vote and the people who lived at home. They have drawn a number of conclusions. Firstly, people felt that the subject of the referendum was not really suitable for a referendum. Secondly, people felt that, although this was the case, it was important for the government to listen to the outcome. As far as I am concerned, this shows that the instrument as such is not working properly. Questions are being asked that people say: that is actually not a good question. Moreover, if they then take the trouble to vote, which has done about 32% of the voters, it turns out that what they voted for is just an opinion and that the government has twisted itself into many turns to do something with it, but not what the majority of voters had said. In short, the test that has been carried out, the one time that the consultative referendum has been held in this form, has not produced a satisfactory result.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u195	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u196	Just a moment, Mr. Baudet. Mr. Bosma, you were there before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u197	But the hierarchy is now clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u198	I would like to put a question to the colleague, because he would like to ask Ukraine specifically on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u199	How do you know about Mr. Baudet, Mr. Bosma?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u200	We feel each other. Thanks to Mr Bosma: does the Minister of the Interior recognise that Mark Rutte's insert does not do justice to the voice of the Dutch people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u201	I said that the previous cabinet had to make a great deal of effort to talk the Netherlands for a long time in a situation where a number of, in fact, all the other Member States have been so far, in order to achieve justice. At the same time, those who had gone to vote and who had said in a majority 'we do not want the association agreement' did not see that result.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u202	Yes, so the Minister of the Interior acknowledges that what Rutte came home with at some point, that insert, does not do justice to the no vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u203	No, that's not what I said. What I have said is that research has shown that people found two things, namely 1. that it was actually not a suitable subject for a referendum and 2. that direct effect voting by a majority of the voters did not lead to what they would have liked to have expressed by their no vote. That didn't happen. What has happened is that the cabinet has made a great deal of effort to finally achieve that statement. That's great, but that's not what people expected at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u204	I can see that, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u205	That's some weird reasoning. The people have simply collected signatures, met the conditions and have come up with the threshold. I find it typical of the lack of a democratic feeling that the Minister's arguments consist of opinion polls. Since when do polls govern this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u206	I did not quote from opinion polls, but from a study by the Dutch Voice Research Foundation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u207	So that's an opinion poll, but right, let's get back to the main issue. The Minister now comes up with two arguments: 1. the referendum failed to meet expectations and 2. it did not help restore confidence in politics. That second argument was never used by humans. No one has ever said that this is the great panacea that would restore confidence in politics. No one's ever brought it that way. Pechtold speaks of an emergency brake. The Minister is now trying to use arguments in the future that have never been used in the past. That's inaudible. The first cry she uses is that the referendum did not meet the expectations. Expectations from who? How have these expectations ever been defined? How did they get written down? How did they get captured? How were they quantified? How would those expectations not be met and who cares? In the answer I prefer not to hear an opinion poll, but a final reasoning. What do you mean, the referendum does not meet the expectations and expectations of whom?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u208	You have just had a first-term discussion of whether or not there is a majority in this Chamber for a referendum. I have just argued that the four parties that formed this coalition were no longer in favour of the consultative referendum for various reasons. For the rest, I note that there are rather different views. There are parties who are in any form in favour of a referendum, there are parties who are against a referendum in any form and there are parties who prefer a particular type of referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u209	At least that is clear, Mr President. So if the Minister says that we read this also in the explanatory statement, that the referendum did not meet the expectations, it is not the expectations of the people in this country or of the citizens, but the expectations of the parties in the House of Representatives. The funny thing is that if the minister bases herself on that, she doesn't point to the number of seats of pro-referendum parties after the Lower House elections, but to the outcome of the coalition talks. That's what she's basing it on. Expectations = what happened after the coalition talks. Those parties did not turn until after the coalition talks and one of them, D66, turned in the crown jewel. Expectations = expectations in the Lower House after the coalition discussions. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u210	No, Mr Bosma does not understand that. I said that these four parties had a view on this in their electoral programme before the elections. I believe that no voter who voted on these four parties could be surprised at the position taken. Then there's the other point. If the cabinet says that the law on the consultative referendum did not bring what was expected of it, I would like to combat what Mr Bosma said, namely that at the time it was not intended to make this an instrument that would increase confidence in politics. Of course, the law on the consultative referendum aimed to increase and restore people's confidence in politics and in political decision-making. I note that this has not happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u211	Based on what?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u212	Among other things, on the basis of the careful research I have just quoted, that was done after the Ukraine referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u213	The other survey carried out by the Central Planning Bureau last year has shown that 70% to 80% of people in the Netherlands are in favour of a remedially binding referendum. I think this is an important point and I would like to touch on it. You say that the consultative referendum did not bring what the cabinet had expected and that this has widened the gap between citizens and politics. Is it not true that the gap between the citizen and the political divide has been enlarged by spending months talking about what the voter's no means? How are we supposed to interpret the "no"? What would the voter mean by that? Is it not true that the gap between citizens and politics is widening and not the consultative referendum in itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u214	I don't know. There is no corrective referendum. Only here has a Law on the Consultative referendum been adopted and designed with the intention of making a new instrument available to the electorate, of course to involve the electorate more in the decision-making process on legislation. It's crazy to say that the moment you enter the instrument, you know for sure that's how it's gonna work. It's not a corrective referendum. Maybe there was not enough thought. Perhaps politicians have not communicated enough with voters that it is about an advisory referendum. You are quoting a percentage, 70% to 80%, of the Dutch who are in favour of a correct referendum. The problem is that in this Chamber the proposal for a corrective referendum, adopted by Mr Van Raak and voted on here, did not succeed. I can see the tension, but that is also the result of our parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u215	Mr President, the voters have chosen 90 seats representing the electoral promise that at least an advisory referendum would be held. People lose confidence in politics when politicians react in the following way to the outcome of an advisory referendum: 'yes, what will we do with it' or 'yes, we don't know anymore'. One political party says 'we must stand', 'no is no' and 'we must stand'. The other political parties say: 'we don't know' and'maybe, maybe not'. This widens the gap between citizens and politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u216	And that also indicates that it has proved to be a problematic instrument. You may, of course, call me on that, but I think you also appeal to the parties in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u217	It has only happened once that we have asked Dutch citizens: what do you want? Do you vote yes or vote no? Would it not have been more graceful if the cabinet had now waited for the outcome of the investigation and the evaluation of the Advisory referendum Act, which would take place this summer? What exactly is the reason for this haste and for abolishing it with immediate effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u218	This is almost an invitation to continue with my answer, because that question has already been asked by a number of Members in the first term. I would like to answer it briefly now; I will come back to it later. I have just argued that the coalition has chosen to say: we want to abolish that consultative referendum because we believe that it is not working properly. During the budgetary procedure, here in this Chamber, a number of you asked: gosh, where is that proposal anyway? Can we see that quickly, because then we can also assess how you are legally putting it together and what about referendability? It is in the coalition agreement and you can expect the cabinet to implement the coalition agreement. It's on my plate to do that. So as soon as that was possible, I put forward a proposal for the withdrawal of the consultative referendum. I don't think it's very fast, but I don't think it's slow either. I sent it to you and then, of course, it is up to Parliament to decide when it will be dealt with. It seems very logical to me that a cabinet that says 'this instrument is withdrawn' should then also take action and put a repeal law before you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u219	We only had a referendum once, didn't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u220	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u221	You outline a number of things that are problematic. I can also imagine that a number of things could be improved, but you are not proposing an improvement. Why do you come on the basis of one example with such a heart-moist decision to abolish it right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u222	By the way, we are going to have a referendum, but that was not certain at the time. I do not think that the essence of the issue of not developing is that there are elements in it with which you could do that, for example the threshold that is in it and the number of signatures that you can discuss. That is not the essence, the core of the problem is that it is an advisory referendum and not a corrective referendum. That's what's bothering me. In a way, it puts people on the wrong foot too. That is the decisive reason to say: we are not going to develop it, we are not going to craft it. But then you have to dare say that the instrument doesn't work and then you have to be mature enough to say: if it doesn't work, we'll pull it in and see how we can strengthen and improve our democracy in other ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u223	But if you withdraw this, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u224	If the Minister withdraws this...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u225	...there is no other way for the population to speak out on legislation and regulations. Only in elections can the people decide on the policy, but no longer in the interim. Can you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u226	Does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u227	That is the choice for representative democracy. There are, as I have just said, at least all kinds of ways locally. There you can also just hold referendums to involve people very much in politics and political decision-making. For the rest, I think that all the parties here and all the representatives of the people in this Chamber are wondering every day whether what they are doing is best for the Netherlands and for the people who voted for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u228	We have just established that the minister is here on behalf of the cabinet and not on behalf of D66. The Minister points out that it is not a corrective referendum. And since it is not a binding referendum, we will abolish the consultative referendum. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u229	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u230	Well, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister to stop this reasoning and not to point out to the Chamber that there will or will not be a corrective referendum. The cabinet itself has chosen not to allow it to be the prelude to a corrective referendum. Therefore, do not use and abuse this argument if you have chosen yourself as a collective, as a cabinet to abolish the consultative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u231	One correction to how I was quoted. I said that there was no prospect of a corrective referendum. Furthermore, I have heard Mrs. Kuik well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u232	The cabinet itself has chosen to do so, and the coalition itself has chosen to do so!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u233	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u234	So don't use the false argument, because I'm not allowed to address the Minister as a D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u235	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u236	So I address the minister as a cabinet, but the cabinet has not taken the step forward in any way, but in any way. So don't use that argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u237	I understand from the Minister just now that the people have not understood correctly that there is no need to draw the consequences in an advisory referendum. Do I understand from that that the Prime Minister also did not understand correctly when he said that the referendum on Ukraine should have consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u238	No, Mr Krol, I think that both the people who voted or did not vote at the Ukraine referendum and Mr Krol himself have understood very well what was going on. A referendum was held in which a yes or no question was asked and the people who were going to vote had the idea, the idea that their yes or no vote would actually be followed up. That is not the case, because it is an advisory referendum. That's the law that was passed here. At the same time, Mr Rutte gave this the political weight, I think, which was right. He said: I think I should take that into account. That is also what the law says, because if a no comes out of the referendum and the threshold is reached, then the cabinet must consider it. And that's what the previous cabinet did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u239	But it is true that both Mr Buma and Mr Rutte said afterwards that it must have consequences. Is it then the referendum that people did not understand correctly, or is it these two politicians, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u240	That is precisely the inconvenience, Mr Krol actually says it well. That is exactly the inconvenience this instrument has caused. The inconvenience of asking people to say yes or no to something, when you have to say at the end: you have now said yes or no, but that does not automatically lead to application. It only leads to an obligation to review. The previous cabinet also gave substance to this review through the negotiations and the agreements that were subsequently made. But that is different from giving a literal follow-up to the question: are you for or against the association agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u241	With that inconvenience, shouldn't you abolish the instrument? Then you have to work on the instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u242	I have just said in response to another Member's question that it is possible to work on the instrument, but it is not the choice, because the core of the inconvenience and the problem is in the word "consultative', and that key is not just gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u243	The Minister says that the referendum must be put in the trash, because citizens are disappointed. But why are people disappointed? In 2005, the Netherlands said no to the European Constitution and the government said yes. In 2016, the Netherlands said no to the treaty with Ukraine and the government said yes. And now the government itself says, and this minister also says it: in the referendum on the drag law on 21 March, you can vote whatever you want, you can stand on your head, we will continue anyway. Where did this disappointment come from? Is it from the law or the arrogant attitude of the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u244	Well, you quote the government, I believe, but the government did not say that about the consultative referendum on the Wiv that we are going to hold in March. I said on behalf of the government that I will do what the law says, depending on the outcome. In a yes, it is a yes, and in a no, the cabinet will consider it. Because that's what the law says, and we'll just do it. I don't think anyone in the cabinet suggested anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u245	The Prime Minister, is he in the cabinet or is he not in the cabinet? This is precisely why I asked the Prime Minister to be present at this debate. I have also asked the Prime Minister a number of pressing questions. I wonder how he's gonna answer that. I haven't gotten a text yet, no app or even an e-mail. The Prime Minister has indeed said this, and representatives of the coalition parties have indeed said so. And that is it: the arrogance of power, the arrogance of the government parties, which causes people to be disappointed. It is even more arrogant to knock people out of their hands and say: you do not understand, you do not understand. This is the arrogance at the top that the Minister is defending here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u246	Mr Van Raak may blame me for that. At the same time, I note that an initiative for a referendum on the Wiv simply leads to a referendum in accordance with the law. The cabinet is meddling in that. We're very busy explaining exactly what that law means. I look forward to March 21st.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u247	I heard the minister earlier say that she is not here as D66 politicians but as Minister of the Interior. I am all the more surprised that, as Minister of the Interior, she is pursuing D66 demonisation policy against our party. Something about ball and bounce would say Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u248	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u249	Exactly. I do not know what question Mr Baudet wants answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u250	Does the Minister not think it is a D66 demonisation policy what she said about our party and about me at the Dales lecture? Isn't that a D66 policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u251	If the President appreciates my reply, I would, of course, like to reply. I held the Ien Dales lecture as a minister. Mr Baudet knows that. I said things there about the Constitution and about our Article 1. If he wants to talk to me about this further, I would very much like to discuss it with him. We now have a debate on the consultative referendum. Anyway, of course he's free to ask questions here. At least I didn't make a D66 policy there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u252	Extremely unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u253	Mr. Baudet, you have made your point, but the subject is indeed the Advisory referendum Act. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u254	I have a large number of specific questions that I would like to answer. I thought Mr Krol asked why we were not simply conducting a public campaign. If there are elements in it that lead to incomprehension, I could run a campaign to explain it better. I have just argued that I think much more is needed. There's a fundamental problem that you can't fix by explaining it to people better. It's in the instrument itself. It's not people, it's the instrument. There are also Members who have referred to other countries. At the beginning of my speech I said that in the Netherlands we have a tradition of compromise, consensus and consultation. There are countries with similar traditions, but there are also countries with very different traditions where the self-protecting citizen is much more highly respected. That is actually the Swiss practice with a lively referendum practice. In the Netherlands we do not know that tradition. In fact, we started thinking very late in Dutch democracy about whether we could do something with referenda. Then there is the comparison with that country that no longer exists, the GDR. I also say to Mr Krol that it is absolutely not my intention to answer his questions properly. If he has a complaint about that, it's a good thing he said it here. I'm sure I'd like to answer that question. The point is that it is very difficult to compare a democratic rule of law like the Netherlands with the GDR; a country which, I would say luckily, no longer exists. It was not a democracy and that is the Netherlands, fortunately. It was not a country with proportional representation. That's the Netherlands. He quoted from a NRC article in which Mr Gros, a Swiss referendum expert, was quoted. He pointed out that the comparison with the GDR was so problematic because it was not a democracy. I would like to make another point. It is said that it is so special that this instrument is withdrawn. I would not say that it is not special, of course not. I would point out, however, that we have already abolished a referendum option in the Netherlands, namely the mayor's referendum. From 2001 to 2008 we had the opportunity to hold a mayor's referendum in the Netherlands. It's been revoked. This was in the municipal law and that law has been amended. That possibility has been taken back by the legislator. That precedent is there. The voting ratio was that there was a very large majority in favour of withdrawing the mayor's referendum. Only the PVV was against that at the time. In the First Chamber, by the way, the bill was passed without debate, as a hammer piece. I'm committed to sketching that whole context. It is a context international, a context national and also a context with a legal history. Then there are a number of other questions, Mr President. But I see someone moving gently to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u255	Are you gonna finish this point or were you done already?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u256	I just have a lot of questions to ask, but I think this point was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u257	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u258	Let's talk about the GDR. I also mentioned them in my speech. I did not mean to compare the Netherlands, in any way, with the GDR. I'm glad you didn't. All I have said is that the GDR was the only one who ever abolished the referendum. The Netherlands is the only democracy that has abolished the referendum. At the moment there are 196 democracies in the world who do have a national referendum and 4 who do not. Soon a fifth will come and that is the Netherlands. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u259	You are talking about national referendums, because of course the Netherlands still knows the possibility of referenda. Those are local referendums. I also argued that we have already abolished the possibility of a referendum, namely the mayor's referendum. The Netherlands is also one of the few countries in the world where the mayor is not directly elected. Yes, we are unique in some ways. Sometimes we want to change that and sometimes we don't, but I don't think that's a reason to say that we should, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u260	What surprises me is that when the referendum on the mayor was abolished, a majority of the parties were ready to do so, but you see here, when you look at the election programmes, that the parties think differently. In one case, you point out that there was a majority in favour, but in the election programmes there is also a majority in favour of not abolishing this referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u261	I can't quite make that sum. I have just argued that the four parties of this coalition were all of the opinion, for various reasons, that the consultative referendum as it is in this law did not work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u262	But that is precisely the problem that the electorate has chosen for parties who claimed otherwise in their electoral programme. You are not standing there as a representative of D66, so perhaps the question is very difficult for you to answer, but there were people who voted for D66 for that reason, and they are now deeply and deeply disappointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u263	Again, I must continue to speak here as a minister, no matter how much I would like to stand here as a party politician, but I do not. I note, however, that the four parties that form this coalition all felt, for different reasons, and perhaps with different perspectives, that this instrument did not work and I think all the voters knew that at the time of the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u264	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u265	I don't envy your position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u266	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u267	He cannot be here tonight, he said to me just now, whether it is a practical step or a fundamental step, this repeal law. It's very practical. I'm a pragmatic person anyway. I have just given very pragmatic reasons for the lack of a consultative instrument. I'm not gonna repeat that, but I did want to answer that question of his. The same goes for Mr Krol and others, who have just been mentioned, whether I can wait for the evaluation. Well, that wouldn't be very obvious. If you have intended to withdraw a law and that intention is in place in the coalition agreement, it is not very obvious to say that you are waiting for the evaluation to be carried out again. So the cabinet didn't choose to do that either. A number of Members have asked: why are you doing this so quickly? I think I actually said in my introduction: we are doing it as quickly as possible. And I also thought that this would be in line with the questions raised during the budget debate. There were also Members who said: can you not wait for the results of the parliamentary system committee? Of course, the state committee has a much broader remit. Its mission is to examine the need for changes in the breadth of the parliamentary system and of parliamentary democracy. Recommendations have been requested on this point, i.e. in the broader perspective of the functioning of representative democracy. This repeal law is, in fact, separate from that larger whole and has an independent basis. Now that the cabinet has made that assessment, there is no point in dragging it any longer on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u268	I don't quite understand that. Why not wait and see the advice? Indeed, this is a small instrument in the larger picture, but I think the committee could also have something to say about this instrument in this larger picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u269	Yes, that could be; of course I don't know. The committee does not come forward with its recommendations until the end of this year. But if, on the one hand, you consider the intention of the coalition agreement, which is a clear intention that is about this one instrument, and, on the other hand, you see the scope of the state committee's parliamentary system, then I think there is no reason to wait for this one instrument. But of course we are very curious about the findings in the general sense and what the state committee will say in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u270	If the committee thinks such a referendum is important and recommends it, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u271	I'm gonna wait and see what they come up with. Then, of course, the cabinet will look at the whole thing. Then you will also receive a response from the Cabinet to all the recommendations of the State Committee. But I do not want to anticipate that, because I do not know what they are going to say at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u272	Besides the state committee, there is also an evaluation provided for in the law itself. Is the Minister still gonna go into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u273	I was actually trying to answer the question just now by saying that it does not seem logical to me either to put on the table a proposal contained in the coalition agreement, which would lead to the repeal of the Consultative referendum Act, pending an evaluation that would then come around the summer, and then to review that intention. The cabinet didn't choose that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u274	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u275	Yes, then I come to the point of referendability of the repeal law. Many of you have just asked questions about this. I will also give the legal ownership later, but it starts with the sound reasoning that says: it is logical that no referendum can be held on a law that puts aside that same consultative referendum. That is an inherent logic, and that is also what Prime Minister Rutte has argued. This has just been mentioned by some, among others by Mr Van Raak. We would like it to be clear about the abolition of that referendum and we find it very difficult to explain and illogical to say: a law that we have just abolished, which therefore no longer exists and therefore no longer provides the basis for a new referendum, we are putting before you for an opinion. We don't think that makes any sense. But I also come to the legal reasoning, which may be more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u276	Yes, exactly, but I see Mr Van Raak wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u277	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u278	Already?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u279	I'm asking the Minister who she doesn't think she is to determine that for the population. We have made a law that allows people to decide whether they want a referendum. We planted it with those people. That law states that you may decide when you want a referendum and what it is about. And now this minister says: oh, but I don't think that's important at all, because I think this law is so important that there can't be a referendum on it anymore. Who does the minister think she is? This is a right of the people! And if this minister wants to reduce that right from the people, then the people still have the last word to make that happen or not. So again the question to the Minister: who does she think she is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u280	Mr Van Raak is putting words in my mouth. In the end, Mr Van Raak, it is up to the legislator and therefore your Chamber to decide on this. The cabinet has put forward a proposal: a repeal law for the consultative referendum. The last word is yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u281	No! No!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u282	Yeah, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u283	Who the hell do you think we are?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u284	The legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u285	It's gonna be an interesting discussion!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u286	This referendum is a means for the electorate to whistle back the Chamber, to advise, to whistle back the Cabinet. The last word is not for the cabinet. The last word is not in the Chamber. When it comes to the referendum, the last word is for the electorate. He must have the last word. And that possibility is now being taken away from the people, the citizens of the Netherlands. This is a violation of our democracy and certainly of confidence in democracy. So one more question to the Minister: who does the Minister think she is that she can just decide this for the whole population?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u287	No, it's something else. Here's how it's gonna work. The cabinet has made a bill. This is called the repeal law of the consultative referendum. It is up to the Chambers to decide. If the majority of Parliament decides that that law will come into force, that means that the previous law will no longer be in force. That's the logic I maintain. And the last word, Mr. Van Raak, is always on the electorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u288	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u289	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u290	The Minister uses the slogan "inherent logic." That really is not a legal concept. There is no such thing as "inherent logic." We also heard Mr Jetten arguing: we discussed this in the D66 Group and we think it best not to hold a referendum on the referendum. We are not ruled by the random passers-by who walk around here. We are governed by the laws. There can only be one law. This is the law that now applies: the Wrr, the Advisory referendum Act. It simply states: Article 4, Article 8. It's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... Article 4 states: "A referendum may be held on: a. laws." That is just the law that is now in force, and thus inherent in this law. It's not inherent logic, it's just the law. That's just state law and it's also state law. The law applies. If a minister has one duty, it's that she has to enforce the law. If we as a Chamber have one duty, that is to ensure that the Minister and the Cabinet implement the law. This is the law and you have only one duty, Madam Secretary, and that is to implement the law, the Wrr, the Advisory referendum Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u291	The Minister has a duty to enforce the law and you vote on legislative proposals. So it's up to you later to judge this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u292	This law still applies until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u293	Sure, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u294	Professor Voermans is absolutely right that it is completely illegal what you want. It's completely illegal. He also says: it's legal magic. The law applies. You must enforce the law. Nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u295	Then perhaps this is a good time to go over the legal basis with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u296	I'll wait for this explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u297	Yeah, actually, that's what I was gonna suggest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u298	Thank you. This is also an answer to Mr Bishop van rechten's intrusive questions. This bill does what a special law can do. It is the legislator's competence to rule out the referendability of the Advisory referendum Act in the special law. That is actually a very common legal method. I would like to point out two things. One: making the repeal law non-referendable is exactly what the Dutch legislator also proposed in 2002. It is really important to read back what was said and written down at the time when the law was being dealt with. It is contained in the explanatory memorandum, as amended following the opinion of the Council of State. So the proposal of the law of Mr.Dubbelboer, Mr.Duyvendak and Mr.Van der Ham states: "If a later law explicitly derogated from the law of consultative referendum, the later law prevails. This has the ultimate legal consequence that subsequent laws could be excluded from referendability, provided that this is expressly provided." That is precisely the legal basis that the Cabinet has in mind for this repeal law: the method whereby the specific law expressly excludes the application of the Wrr without applying the Advisory referendum Act. It's happened once before. I believe that Mr Van der Molen quoted this, because that was the temporary act of neglecting Saint Eustatius. The Council of State, which, of course, gave its opinion on this matter, has called the provision of law legally effective in relation to its retroactive effect. You may, of course, disagree with Mark Rutte's inherent logic. I've made a lot of sense of it myself. You may agree with that, or you may have a different view. I fully respect all of that, but apart from that, it is legally sustainable. In fact, this was also envisaged as an option at the time of the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u299	Did you conclude with this legal aspect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u300	Yeah, there's one more hook on it. This is about retroactivity, perhaps it would be a good idea to include it immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u301	Yeah, I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u302	The retroactivity. There is actually a general rule in the legislative doctrine, namely that the later special law may differ from the general law on grounds. That is exactly the case here. Then it is important to ensure, and that is also legally careful, that it is, as it were, running around. At the time you opt for retroactive force, and therefore not for any of the other options that there are, such as immediate effect or delayed effect, this means that after entry into force the legal effects associated with something occur before the entry into force. In order to do this carefully, it has been included and it has been said that there is always a short time between, on the one hand, the time of vote and the signature of the King and the countersign, and, on the other hand, the time of entry into force, namely the day after publication. That's very short, maybe 24 hours or twice 24 hours. For this reason, the retroactive effect has been included. That is the legal basis which, as has been said, has also been endorsed by the Council of State. I come to the suggestions that have been made here by, I believe, Mr Baudet and Mr Bosma. It cannot therefore be the case that, after this law has been adopted and entered into force, a referendum could still be requested under the old law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u303	I almost fall off my chair when I hear the Minister, because for what particular reasons is it in this case? For you compare it with the decision-making of St. Eustatius. There was really an urgent, special situation, where the population was understaffed in the service sector. What particular reasons do you have here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u304	No, no, sorry. Let me correct this: I did not compare at all, I just said that it has already been applied once. The Chamber has already agreed once to suspend the application of the Advisory referendum Act. I pointed that out. I would also like to say, also in response to a question that has been asked, that we have not chosen to resort to the urgency procedure provided for in Article 12. That is clearly not our choice, because we do not find it the royal way. This is legally sound and careful, and so has the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u305	I heard the Minister read from the 2003 explanatory memorandum. I have here the opinion of the Council of State, namely the further report. I would like to read out a sentence, at least if you allow me, because it is a long sentence: 'Only if Article 16 makes an explicit reference to that provision that the entry into force cannot be delayed, can the legislative proposal be drawn up in such a way that it enters into force before a referendum on the law of withdrawal can be used. However, it should be possible to justify the fact that this entry into force cannot be delayed." So it had to be justified that the entry into force could not suffer a delay. There had to be an emergency. The Council of State did not consider that to be the case. How can you say that the Council of State has not turned at all but decided the same thing as in 2002? That is absolutely not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u306	You're absolutely right about that. The Council of State itself has come back to its own opinion from 2002 and has now said: we are no longer in favour of the opinion of that time; we have now given a new opinion. I can also quote from that. Of this, the Council of State says: this is actually the royal road, which we find legally effective. The Council of State has said that this is simply legally sound. That is also in the opinion of the Council of State, you can just look it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u307	The new opinion of the Council of State states that there is still a problem of motivation, but that despite this problem of motivation, the government can certainly decide not to refer the repeal law to the consultative referendum. I don't understand. Can the Minister explain that? That's what I call a twist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u308	I think this is two different things. The Council of State has provided a different basis for non-referendibility in the opinion to this repeal law than the Council did at the time. At the time, it was about urgency. Now the cabinet has chosen another route, another legal basis, which we believe was more solid and which the Council of State also says: that's right, that's more solid. The opinion of the Council of State also called for further justification, but this was not about this but about the basis of the repeal law as such. It was delivered by the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u309	Let's talk about the turn of the Council of State. On page 6, footnote 17, the Council of State says: we will return to our previous opinion from 2002. So in 2002 the Council of State says: what is happening here, the repeal of the provisional referendum law with retroactive effect, absolutely cannot, that is contrary to all the principles of law, with 500 years of European development and 2,000 years of Roman law; that is really not possible! And now suddenly... footnote; no, it could be, we'll come back to our earlier decision. How does the Minister explain this remarkable twist of the Council of State? Doesn't she agree, like me and I suspect all the colleagues present here, that a total lack of support for this 180 degree turn of the Council of State leaves much to be desired?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u310	The Council of State is completely independent. It is an important High College of State and an independent advisor to the government who always has to give advice on legislative proposals. That's what they did here. They themselves pointed out that they now had a different judgment than at the time. I did not ask what internal consideration was behind that. I'm just assuming the advice given by the Council of State to this law. I note that the opinion is positive and that they have said: this is legally sound, careful and effective. That's important to me. If you point out that this is different than it was in 2002, 16 years ago, then the answer is: yes, the Council of State itself pointed that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u311	I'll get back to you on that. On 20 December, on the same day that the Council of State issued this very strange and not only contrary to an earlier opinion of sixteen years ago, but also in violation of about two thousand years of European development, the Cabinet followed up on all plans and immediately put that bill in motion and submitted it. That's extremely odd. That has never happened in Dutch history. It's almost always the case that weeks go by. Usually, months pass after an opinion has been delivered by the Council of State before a legislative proposal is finalized. It is therefore highly unlikely, and highly unlikely, that the government has had contact with the Council of State before the Council of State's opinion was published. I would like to hear from the Minister what contacts that might have been. What contacts have there been with the Council of State prior to that day, 20 December 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u312	Firstly, the Council of State was asked whether it would be able to issue an urgent opinion on this matter. That is very common, as many in this Chamber know. The cabinet only asks for an urgent opinion if the Council of State itself has indicated in advance that it is possible to do so. For the rest, important proposals from the cabinet are always in contact with the Council of State. There's nothing unusual about that either. In fact, this is an official part of the Council of State's new approach. So there's nothing mysterious about it. And yes, of course there have been contacts over and over, but that does not mean that the Council of State, one of the High Colleges of State, is a completely independent advisor to the government, for which I have the greatest respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u313	But is the Minister aware of Article 26 (2) of the Council of State Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u314	In general, yes, but if you were to ask me to quote from that, I would not be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u315	Mr. Baudet, what does it say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u316	The text submitted to the Council of State must, as well as the full opinion of the Council of State, be published in the Official Journal before the legislative process can move forward. Is that what happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u317	We have respected all the agreements on legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u318	Because that didn't happen. That didn't happen. So there has been a violation of the legal legislative process. There has been a violation of Article 26 (2) of the Council of State Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u319	I think we've just done everything very neatly. We've asked for advice from the Council of State. That was an emergency recommendation. That's what the Council of State gave you. Then, of course, we involved that opinion in the proposal and adapted it and sent it to your Chamber. That's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u320	Sorry, I'm just finishing up. But it has to be published in the State Journal. Then it's checkable. Then everyone can check it out. And that didn't happen. It hasn't been published. In short, we as Chamber, but also the Dutch people cannot see which proposal was sent to the Council of State and what exactly was the opinion given by the Council of State in its entirety. This is contrary to Article 26 (2) of the Council of State Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u321	I would like to fight that because the cabinet has just acted in a regular manner. The cabinet has received an opinion from the Council of State, it has reviewed the bill and it has forwarded it to your Chamber. I don't think there's anything irregular about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u322	You've just been here, Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u323	I have a point of order. It is quite extraordinary that an opinion of the Council of State should become a subject of political debate. I also understand that very well because the Council of State gives a completely different opinion in a very short time than a few years ago. The Minister says: this is the opinion of the Council of State; it is now up to the Chamber. We have also had a hearing with a number of state lawyers who say that this is a legal illusion and that this is a state-law mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u324	What's the point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u325	We are friendly but also simple representatives of the people. I am in desperate need of further advice on this. We must take a decision, and I am afraid that will not be legal or that we will adopt a legislative proposal without having had a proper legal debate on it. I therefore propose that the Minister should, of course, complete its term, because we have asked a number of questions, but I have a serious need for further advice from a number of state law experts that we can invite here. Unfortunately, we cannot ask the Council of State. I suggest that we continue the debate when we have that opinion, because then we all know what it is about and we all have a similar assessment of those articles.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u326	Would you like to put your proposal in concrete terms, with not so much text? Just put it briefly, so that we can check everyone's support for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u327	I would like further legal advice on this matter. I would ask the Minister to continue her reply, but before we start the second term, we should first have a possibility for further legal advice, because we simply need to have clarity about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u328	May I make a point of order on this point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u329	Well, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u330	I think we're already having an order debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u331	To Mr Van Raak: the opportunity to seek advice and read it quickly, or...? Do you want to finish the first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u332	We can stop now, I'm fine with that. But I need legal advice and I notice that with a large number of Members of Parliament. We're grabbing a ghost. We don't have a legal basis. We are dealing here with constitutional issues and we simply do not know what is going on. If we don't know what's going on, we can't make a decision. We have asked the Minister a number of questions. I'd be very grateful if she would answer that. But after that, I think it is important for the Chamber to seek further legal advice. If we have that legal advice, we can continue to deal with the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u333	Then it is also a question of asking what the Court thinks about this. That also happens by majority, Mr. Van Raak. I shall begin with Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u334	I wholeheartedly support the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u335	Mr President, if I may. I would like to raise a point of order on this point of order. I think that should be possible, too. I think it is an abuse of the possibility of a point of order. We're having a debate with the Minister. The Minister is asked for her information. She's giving it to me. I understand that Mr Van Raak and perhaps other colleagues do not agree with that information, or they do not think it is good information. That's their right. But to say right now...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u336	You don't support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u337	No, but I think it's the abuse of order to bring this up. We are just having a substantive debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u338	No, we're not going to discuss the point of order. You do not support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u339	I do not support the request. Definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u340	Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u341	I would like to make a point of order. It is about that point by Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u342	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u343	It is not about supporting or not supporting the Minister. We'd like some more advice. I wholeheartedly support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u344	Doubts about the care and interpretation of the articles are also with us. I support the request. I think it's a good idea for us to take a good look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u345	I've got a lot of support, but I'd like to supplement it. I checked at the Central Information Point. It was indeed not published in the Official Journal. I don't. So that's against the law. That is an additional argument for Mr Van Raak's proposal. We really need to build in more time now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u346	So you support Mr Van Raak's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u347	Mr President, although I have a legal background, I think it is a very confusing procedure followed by the Council of State. I would indeed like to have further advice on this. I therefore wholeheartedly support Mr Van Raak's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u348	I get the impression that we are playing political football and that the Council of State has now become football. I don't agree with that. So no support for the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u349	It is said that the Council of State has taken a turn, but the Council of State has delivered an opinion on two different laws. So there is no twist at all. No support for Mr Van Raak's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u350	I very much hesitate to support this request, because the Chamber has had a great deal of opportunity to prepare itself. There has been a round table discussion, we have had position papers and we have the advice of the Council of State. At the moment, I do not support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u351	Then I'll go see Mrs. Arissen. Oh, no, you've already been.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u352	May I make a point of order on the previous speaker? It's just as important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u353	No, Mr. Baudet, first is Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u354	It is said that we have all been able to take note of the Council of State, but that is not the case, because it has not been published. The Dutch people have not been able to take notice of it, so it is contrary to the transparency of democracy. That's really very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u355	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u356	It is precisely on this point that we have asked a written question. That question hasn't been answered. That has given us little time and there is legal uncertainty, also because the Council of State says it is effective. However, he does not argue why it is effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u357	You support the request?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u358	On that very point, I would very much like to have a more detailed explanation. Therefore, support for the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u359	Have I had everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u360	Mr. Chairman. I understand, if I may make a point of order, that it is a matter of majorities, but I note that the opposition is actually united in this. I would argue in favour of this, especially in view of the fact that the Christian Union is in doubt, that you are responding to this request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u361	Well, the Christian Union doesn't hesitate. Mrs Van der Graaf has made it clear that she does not support it. So I must conclude by majority that there is simply no support for Mr Van Raak's request. Then I should like to suggest that we proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u362	No, that's right, but we don't know. So we are supposed to make a judgment here today on an important legal state-law issue that is very unclear. And you can't. If such a request for information is also suspected, then there is a real political game.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u363	I suggest that we proceed with this debate. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u364	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have just answered the questions concerning the exclusion of referendibility and the retroactive effect. I would be happy to repeat the answers again. The Council of State's opinion has simply been sent to the Chamber, so both the Cabinet and the Council of State have the legal argument at their disposal. Then I have a few other questions, if there is no need to go back to the legal arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u365	Gentlemen! The Minister has the floor. I do expect people to listen to me. Mr. Krol, Mr. Martin Bosma, Mr. Van Raak, Mr. Baudet, you're holding meetings in the room, but I find that extremely disturbing. Can I say it? The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u366	No offense at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u367	It does seem very unkind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u368	Yeah, that's what it sounds like, but we've put that right here. I request a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u369	I'd still like to allow the Minister... I'd like to finish the Minister's term first. Then we can suspend for a while and then move on. First, the Minister. I ask everyone to sit down, I really ask everyone to sit down until the Minister is ready. You've asked questions and there are questions that haven't been answered. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u370	Thank you. A number of questions about the effects of this. A question has been asked by Mr Krol, who of course took the initiative to hold a referendum. At least his party did. There's a transitional right in the bill. This transitional right ensures that advanced referendum procedures can continue, provided they are sufficiently advanced. This concerns laws and tacit approval of treaties for which the deadline for collecting the 300,000 declarations of support expired before the withdrawal. We all know that in the Hills Act, the last day of that term is 8 March. Again, this has its way. We'll see what the First Chamber does. In any case, it is by no means my intention to ride that in the wheels. Mr Bishop, who is no longer here, has asked whether we could extend it: could we not include all the current referendum procedures under this transitional law? That is also what Mr Krol's amendment is looking at, which I shall come up with later. I think it is right to clarify the abolition of the instrument and therefore to end the procedures, unless they are already ready to collect signatures. I think that the withdrawal proposal is reasonable, as is the possibility for ongoing cases to be concluded. A more limited provision was introduced in 2002, when the Revocation Act for the Temporary referendum Act was discussed. We have therefore opted for a wider provision in relation to the proposal that was developed at the time. I'll see if there are any additional questions. No, that's not the case. I am therefore in favour of the two amendments that have been tabled. GroenLinks' amendment on referendability, which we were just discussing, aims to make the repeal law referendable. That's different from what the government intended. I do not want to repeat what I said just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u371	What number?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u372	That is the amendment to item No. 9. The cabinet therefore advises against this amendment. Mr Krol's amendment of 50PLUS envisages a much broader transitional regime. I have just argued that, in our view, there is a good transitional arrangement. If the six-week deadline has expired, if the signatures have been collected, then the repeal law will allow for that referendum to be held. Mr. Chairman. I've done my best to answer all the questions. For this term, I'll be at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u373	Maybe I missed it. Is that the amendment to item No. Mrs Özütok's 7? Oh, that's no. 9; that has been changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u374	Yeah, that was no. 9. Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u375	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the Minister's first term. I see Mr Bosma has taken the lead here. Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u376	I'll never take charge of you, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u377	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u378	... because you're in charge. I'd like to request a ten-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u379	I'd be fine with that. Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u380	I appreciate that very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u381	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u382	We continue, but there was discussion on a point of order. Who can I give the floor to? Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u383	On behalf of the entire opposition that is present, I would ask the Minister to ask the Council of State for further advice. There's a point that's unclear. In order to conclude the debate properly, we need a more detailed opinion. I believe that this can be done quickly, so the proposal is to ask the Council of State for further advice on its opinion, of course, for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u384	I'm gonna go see what other people think about that. Mr. Bosma, I see you standing by the microphone, but Mr. Van Raak spoke on behalf of the entire opposition. I thought you were in the opposition, too. I call Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u385	Mr President, I understand that there are still some questions. It is a pity that a number of political groups have not previously decided to seek a supplementary opinion, because that opinion of the Council of State has been there for a long time. My counter-proposal would be to finish the debate now. The Minister has just given a comprehensive answer. We ask the Minister to send a supplementary letter after the second deadline before Tuesday's votes. If that letter turns out to be insufficient, then as a Chamber we can always decide to hold a third term. I think we can finish the debate tonight and ask the Minister to send a supplementary letter for next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u386	Mr President, I would like to endorse what Mr Jetten has to say. We agreed to a hearing. There, we have been given a constitutional explanation of the opinion of the Council of State. The fact that the point has just come up is strange. I fully agree with what Mr Jetten said. We need to have the debate now. If the Minister wishes to send another letter before the vote, we are happy to receive it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u387	I agree with what Mr Jetten and Mr Koopmans have said, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u388	I can agree to that, too. The Council of State has given its opinion. We're not asking the Supreme Court to rule again. I think it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u389	The problem is that we ask for further justification from the Council of State. The Minister can't give it to you. A detailed explanation of the Council of State can only be given by the Council of State. If this is then put in a letter from the Minister to the Chamber, we are fine with it, but we are asking for a more detailed explanation from the Council of State on the point we have raised as part of a legislative procedure, I would just like to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u390	The majority would like to continue the debate. I'll see if she needs to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u391	Mr President, thank you very much for allowing me to respond to this, because it is obviously up to the Court to consider the matter. In my opinion, a bill has gone to the Chamber with an opinion from the Council of State. You have all the documents, you can see what the Council of State has advised and what supplement that has led to in the explanatory statement. Moreover, it has not led to any changes to the legislative proposal. It also contains the legal basis of the Council of State. I have just tried, in response to the questions, to present the legal basis we gave as a cabinet, supported in our view by the Council of State. I am, of course, prepared to put that in writing before the next votes; that is no problem at all. It seems unusual to me to go to the Council of State again. The Council of State has a certain role at some point in the legislative process. That's what happened here. I believe that the discussion was just about the opinion on this bill, which, in a sense, deviated from a much earlier opinion of the Council of State on another bill, which saw a similar bill. That's all on the table. Again, the Council of State is a High College of State and actually works for all of us. But I'm a little hesitant whether you should go back to the Council of State to ask for a re-confirmation or ratification of what they've already advised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u392	Mr. Chairman. There has been a debate in this Chamber on the opinion of the Council of State. We have concluded that this is because there is no justification. So in order to be able to continue this legislative consultation properly, we need a detailed justification from the Council of State for its opinion. That's what we're asking. The only one who can provide further justification is the Council of State itself. The Minister cannot, we cannot, the President cannot, only the Council of State can. And we make that request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u393	There is no majority in favour of that request, if I look at it that way. There is a majority in favour of continuing this debate. There is a willingness on the part of the Minister to come forward with a letter before the votes. So yeah, that's it, unless... No, that's it. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u394	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to use you to call on the Minister once again. The Minister says it's not customary. No, but neither is an emergency procedure. Something's going on. I do not feel that we should be pushed away when we make a reasonable request and then the First Chamber says: we are doing our legal task which we have been set up to do. That's our job, too. You're in doubt. That's why I say don't hesitate. If you make that request now, we can really have that further opinion within a week and we can actually proceed to the vote soon. With this we have a reasonable compromise, we can vote on Thursday and we can make a reasonable judgement. I therefore appeal to you, through the President, to make a compelling appeal to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u395	Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, I just asked Mrs. Kikik something outside the microphone. Well now finish the debate, the second term, and then we get the promised letter from the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u396	No, we can do the second term on Tuesday and then we can vote on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u397	The Minister has agreed that she is prepared to send a letter before the vote. She would also be at the Council of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u398	No, don't talk through it. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u399	I think the Minister could also ask the Council of State: are you prepared to provide further information? Then the Minister can take that further information with him in her letter to the Chamber. I believe that all the wishes in this Chamber will be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u400	Then this is an intermediate solution. I should like to conclude now that we are continuing this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u401	One more thing. It is not just about information, it is about information that we can then do something about. The whole point is: we want to have a debate on, among other things, the Council of State. So Rob Jetten's whole suggestion is missing the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u402	But there's no majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u403	Mr. Chairman. Would you mind if I made a suggestion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u404	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u405	Did Members hear the interruption microphone and also Mr Jetten's suggestion: would it be workable if I promised to send you another letter before the vote, and that before I draw up that letter, indeed to the Council of State, I would give them what has just been discussed here and suggest that, in the form of information, I should give further explanations in which the Council of State will then answer the questions that have been put here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u406	But, Mr President, is it logical that we can still discuss this? And that's what we're asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u407	I understand that there is now simply a majority in favour of requesting further information from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u408	I want a roll-call vote on this balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u409	No, just a minute, Mr. Baudet. So everyone agrees on that. Now the next question: are we going to have the second term tonight, or are we going to have that second term next week, when that information comes, after all? I'll look at the minister, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u410	To be honest, that's what I think about you. I'd be willing to do the second term here, and then we could always reopen. But I think that's something the Chamber should decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u411	I think it is very much up to the Minister to say: it is up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u412	No, it's up to the majority. The Minister says it's up to the Chamber. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u413	The problem is: if we keep the second term now, we still have a big question. If we get that advice and the Minister's letter, there is a great chance that we will ask for a reopening. Then we should actually have the second term next week and vote on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u414	Then I will see if the others want to support the proposal to keep the second term next week or not. Those who want to say something about this must say it for the microphone. Then it'll be in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u415	It's kind of in groups. It'll take some getting used to. Mr. Chairman. I think the Minister has made it very clear that she wants to provide additional information. There have been requests for this too, and we can support them. We have proposed that information should also be part of this. Once again, we are proposing that the second deadline be completed today. But if that information gives rise to a third deadline, we will be able to decide on it in any space next week. Then it may be exactly as the parties propose, but we can now continue the debate in the second term. Then we can also ask the Minister about all the points she has already mentioned and finish it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u416	I agree with Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u417	I too agree with Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u418	The same applies to the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u419	Then we have a majority in favour of holding a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u420	I want a roll-call vote on this decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u421	No, no, you'll have the opportunity... There is now a majority in favour of holding a second term. If the further information sent by the Minister to the Chamber gives rise to a third deadline, this will be discussed again here. That's the conclusion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u422	However, Madam President, I would now like to make a commitment that the third deadline may be met. Otherwise, there's no point in it, is there? Then we'll get a cat in the bag, won't we? It's too crazy for words to think that it should be possible. No, that shouldn't be possible. Then we need to know now that that third term can also come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u423	I do not know whether Mr Van der Molen or Mrs Van der Graaf has said anything about a third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u424	Mr President, I will check with you, because I am just a rookie here, but I assume that a third term can always take place. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u425	No, it takes a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u426	That requires a majority of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u427	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u428	How is it possible to finish this second term now if we really lack crucial information, which we need to make a sound decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u429	The CDA clearly points out that it is in favour of a third deadline. Then there's no point in keeping the second term tonight, is there? Then let's just do it in peace next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u430	I'll give the MPs a chance to think about it. I'd like to suspend for a moment and then we'll continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u431	I'm reopening the meeting. Who wants the word? Mr Krol or Mr Van der Molen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u432	Let the government parties do the talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u433	What a favor is being given here at this late hour. Mr. Chairman. All in all, I think it is good to follow the proposal that has been made here. We ask the Minister to send further information. We ask you to schedule a second deadline for next Tuesday. I have heard several parties say that it can then be put to the vote on Thursday. I think we should agree to that. Then I think everyone can conclude the process to the fullest satisfaction. That would be my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u434	Only those who oppose this proposal have the right to say anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u435	Mr Kuzu is coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u436	I should also like to look at the Minister and note that, after this party, we have come to the conclusion that we are currently suspending the debate and moving on next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-12.u437	I thank everyone, including the people who have followed this debate in one way or another and the staff. And the Minister, of course.
