ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the statement by the Minister for the Interior on building in the green. I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, as well as the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. Nine speakers have come forward. Because it is a 30-member debate, everyone has three minutes' speaking time. I propose that a maximum of two interruptions be made in the first period. We're doing interruptions in two. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen of the Party for Animals. She is also the applicant for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u2	Thank you, Mr President. "Build houses in green," the minister called for municipalities and provinces in January this year. She hopes that municipalities and provinces will show courage and also start building at city borders, in the green. Because, so the minister had De Telegraaf write down, "We don't get everyone within the lines that are drawn now." She already gave a preposition by announcing flexible construction rules for the market. A celebration for project developers and architects, but nature and the green in general come under heavy pressure. A lot of scientific research has been done in recent years on the importance of greenery in and around the city. A green municipality is good for human and animal health and well-being, social cohesion, enhanced biodiversity; it reduces the effects of heat, water pollution and drought and improves air quality, but it also attracts businesses and increases the value of homes and offices. So the greener, the better. More and more provinces and municipalities are aware of this and are opposed to the call. They say: urban construction must be given the highest priority and they can, as they say, build up to 100% inner city, including the unrealized Vinex statement. That is much more than the Empire has assumed so far. They also argue that building outside the city is not necessarily easier or faster, as often investments in infrastructure and other facilities are needed. For example, living outside the city leads to additional mobility and, as the Association of Dutch Municipalities quite rightly writes in its letter of yesterday, the permanent loss of open space and greenery. In addition, these inner-city locations are released once and then something has to be done to prevent degeneration and impoverishment of buildings and streets in existing cores. Mr. Chairman. What does the Minister think of all these arguments? Provinces and municipalities don't want it. They don't think it's necessary or even harmful, and it is! They do not want to interfere with the green areas that are becoming increasingly scarce in the Netherlands. The Party for Animals is right about them. They already show courage, namely by resisting the easy building in the meadows. Mr. Chairman. Good living requires more than simply building, building, building.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u3	There is an interruption by Mr Ronnes of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u4	I partly agree with the speaker that you need to consider carefully. But if that regulation is put in too tight, you can see that construction in places where it is needed is not developing. How does the Party for Animals intend to deal with the people who do not find a home, or who live for has become priceless?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u5	I'll go into that in my contribution, but I'd be happy to give you an advance. We think it is very important that creative, innovative solutions are promoted within the city, including from the Empire. Municipalities indicate that they're having trouble with that now. There are too many rules that prevent you from converting existing construction into houses, so for example, you convert empty office buildings into apartments. But as your own deputy in South Holland, Mrs Bom-Lemstra says, "you will never get that outer green back once you have completed it." It is now a unique opportunity to give the old districts a facelift, says Mrs Bom-Lemstra. So I'm assuming that the CDA in the Lower House can join in on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u6	I agree with you in part. The principle is good, but you can see places in the Netherlands where it just gets stuck, where housing really lags behind. We know that the reality is that these inner-city tasks cannot be accomplished in the short term. Where it's necessary, you have to create space for movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u7	Yeah, but not in the green. Inside, innovative and creative solutions need to be found and you need to facilitate them. We absolutely shouldn't touch the green. It is so valuable for the well-being of people, for the environment, for how people feel, for how much people claim to health care and so on. The municipalities and the provinces themselves say that they can build up to 100% inner city. Why would the Empire blame them for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u8	Mr Ronnes before his second interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u9	I'll save my second interruption for in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u10	That's okay, too. Thank you for announcing it. Mrs. Laan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u11	I think it's really easy. It is not the case that with urban construction the problems on the housing market can be solved 100%. The Party for Animals knows that, too. Do you really want people to sleep under the bridge because you don't want to look at all the possibilities there are? You just want to close one of the options.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u12	Of course not. That is the last thing we want, but it is not necessary at all. That's what congregations themselves say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u13	Just before the record: it is totally wrong what is suggested here, namely that by building only urbanly the problem in the Netherlands for all people who are looking for a home is possible and that there are a lot of things that can be solved. You'll have to live in that inner city where the Party of Animals constantly gives you extra neighbors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u14	I don't hear a question in that, but perhaps you'd like to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u15	You really need to look at creative solutions that don't lose the green. I call tiny houses and multigeneration homes. As researchers of the Plan Bureau for the Environment put it, more single people and seniors will need a home in the future, also due to the ageing population. That's what you have to respond to when you build houses. You need to see if we can support initiatives that allow seniors to live together and take care of each other and support each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u16	Mr. Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u17	Mrs. Van Kooten says don't touch the green. That is a clear point of view: to build only urbanly. But the housing shortage in the Netherlands is huge. A lot of people are waiting for a place to live for years. You can say nicely that we are only going to build within the cities, but there is simply a moment when it is no longer possible because it is simply full. If all these cities are fully built up, what creative, innovative solutions does Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen have?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u18	The fact is that a lot of places inside have not been used. I call empty buildings like offices. You can rebuild it. You can come up with innovative solutions. The municipalities are eager, but they ask for the support of the minister, of the Empire, to be able to carry out these initiatives. The Party for Animals supports these congregations wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u19	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u20	Researchers of the Plan Bureau for the Environment state that the need for new construction is mainly economical and very different from one region to another. The demand changes over time. The number of 1 million new homes for 2040 is far too absolute. This mainly concerns single-person households and seniors. Many creative and innovative solutions can be devised for this, such as tiny houses, multigeneration homes or living together for seniors, taking care of each other and living independently for a long time. Existing buildings need to be better used. This prevents long-term emptying, even outside cities where the population is shrinking and ageing. Does the Minister see that and how will she facilitate it? Is there enough room for creativity and innovation without turning to green? Because, Mr. Chairman, once we've finished, we're never gonna get that green back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u21	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the second speaker, Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ringing lyrics on the front page of De Telegraaf of this minister for the summer. There had to be built in that green, because otherwise there would be far too little of it. When she was spoken to it, those words were nuanced and taken back. We're talking about what we want with that today. The PvdA Group is in favour of making as much use as possible of the existing space and buildings to realize homes. We also find the municipalities on our side. They have sent us a letter saying that there really can be much more and that much more needs to be done about it. As the Minister continues to point to the municipalities if something has to happen, I would like to ask her whether she agrees with the municipalities. The PvdA Group is in favour of the Minister doing much more himself, because much more needs to be built. There are far too few homes. For example, take a look at business sites, which are already becoming more empty, also on the outskirts of the city, and make them attractive residential areas. We have the Binckhorst in The Hague. That is really centrally located, but you have a lot of places, even in medium-sized cities, where space is too much. But then you really have to make something of it, because if you drive past it now: you don't want to be found there. That's gonna cost a little money, but it's got to be done. I'd much rather see that than build up the entire green space. If we listen to Mr Koerhuis, he does not participate in this debate, because the portfolio distribution has just changed from the VVD, it sometimes seems as if nature is responsible for the housing shortage in the Netherlands. Nothing could be further from the truth. There are not enough affordable homes, but we can do something about that with all of us. On the one hand, by not cutting back on the rent payment, last Tuesday, unfortunately, the majority chose to do so and, on the other hand, by creating and getting enough building space. That also needs investment. The cabinet doesn't invest extra in housing, but it saves on it. It's cutting back on the housing corporations. This way you never get enough space in the places where you can. Mr President, my final point. It is often said that urban building is much more expensive than building in the open space. Building a meadow is cheaper than looking for places in the city. I ask the Minister whether that is true and, if so, why she is not putting money into it, especially at this time. If you don't do it at this time, now that things are going so well economically and the land prices are so high, when would it be profitable? I think this is the right time to seize those opportunities. If it all goes badly economically, nobody has money and it is priceless, it is not doing anything to make use of it. So this is the right time and I would say: take that opportunity and do not open the door wide to build Dutch greenery and nature, which are still quite scarce. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u23	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Gerven of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u24	Mr. Chairman. The minister threw a bat in the cowboy six months ago. She said that municipalities show too little courage in addressing the shortage of housing and that they should look beyond the borders of existing cities to build new houses. Build in the green that you have to do, seemed like the slogan. Municipalities don't think the same way. They also did not see anything in that appeal and were rightly pecked at by the lack of appreciation shown by these statements by the Minister. An alderman from The Hague indicated that the municipality shows courage by resisting the easy construction of greenery and that they don't need it for the time being, because there are enough empty buildings and unused business sites to solve the deficits. I therefore wonder in whose interest the Minister has declared that more needs to be built in the green. Municipalities indicate that there is no need to build in green. Is that right? There is discussion about it, and there are all kinds of scenarios about the number of homes that are needed. So I would like to know from the Minister what exactly is going on. I'm here to build in the cities. You will not blame me, Mr President, if I look specifically at Utrecht, where SP Alderman Jansen has been going on for a number of years. He managed to get an acceleration in the number of homes that are being built. How is that possible, I ask the Minister. This is not just about Utrecht. Does this also have to do with the possibilities that a municipality itself has to accelerate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u25	Before you continue, Mr. Ronnes would like to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u26	I am really flabbergasted, which Mr Van Gerven cites Utrecht as an example, where Mr Jansen worked as SP alderman. Utrecht is just an example of a city where the homes have become unattainable for many Dutch people, for many middle-income families, for students. They can hardly get to a house anymore. And yes, the housing stock has grown in Utrecht under the control of a SP alderman, but the stock is growing too little and it is going too slowly. I'd like to hear a response to that. Does Mr Van Gerven not see that too little is being built, even in that area Utrecht?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u27	I see there's far too little construction going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u28	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u29	Sure, there should be a lot more construction. But then I'll look directly at the CDA spokesman. What happened to the housing corporations? Who invented the landlord's tax? Who came up with the extra taxes? There is now this discussion about ATAD, a discussion about a new tax. Why does Mr Ronnes not propose to make the landlord tax an investment obligation? For example, we all want housing to be available for lower incomes. The fact that some of these developments do not go as we wish has everything to do with skimming off housing corporations, which inhibits them in building housing for the lower incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u30	I think that there is a misrepresentation here. The CDA, in particular, is committed to the housing corporation sector. Among other things, as a result of this cabinet agreement, the market test is simplified. Furthermore, I tabled a motion months ago to control the burdens of these corporations. And Mr Van Gerven also knows what the CDA's attitude has been in, for example, that discussion on ATAD. If we get the budget right away, the question is how the cabinet is dealing with it, but Mr Van Gerven knows that we have been hard on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u31	We have also supported the motion on which Mr Ronnes refers. But if I'm not mistaken, the CDA is in a cabinet and turning it on the buttons. The CDA could have done a lot more than what's in that motion. I told you, why don't you take that antisocial landlord's tax? The money that has been spent by the poorest half of the Netherlands is therefore being further skimmed. That doesn't turn back the CDA. Today we are trying to answer the question of how to build as many homes as possible for everyone as quickly as possible. Tackling that landlord's tax would have been good for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u32	Thank you. For your part, I see that you are asking a great many questions to Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u33	Oh, yeah, you can't do that, can you? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u34	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u35	Okay. I have another question about the expert team set up by the Minister. What exactly is this team gonna do? And what does it mean for the municipalities? The team's people are not only going to work by invitation, but they're also actively going after it. I think that might be a good thing, but what exactly are these people going to do and what is the purpose of this expert team? Is it also intended to promote construction in green? Or do you want to help municipalities create extra space in existing urban areas? Mr. Chairman. It is clear that there must be a solution to the housing shortage, but then there must also be support for the solutions. In my opinion, there is not so much support for building in the green if there are still a lot of opportunities in the city. We have to cherish the green. Is the Minister prepared to protect the humanly cherished nature from new Vinex neighbourhoods until the vacant areas in the city centre have been tackled? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u36	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a small, densely populated but also beautiful country. Few people know that the Netherlands has the highest natural value in Europe per square kilometre, the greatest diversity of plants and animals. And check for yourself: from the Limburg hills to the forests on the Veluwe, from the seals in the world heritage of the Wadden Sea to the wild horses in the Oostvaardersplassen. We have a beautiful country, but our nature is not doing well. We've already lost 85% of the original species wealth. It is our moral duty to take good care of the remaining nature. Our scarce green areas should be cherished, as has just been said, precisely against the ever-expanding buildings. It will not help if the minister responsible for building, living and planning says that the sparing green can best be built on the edges of the city. That would be a real shame, because just green near the city is extremely important for many people, to enjoy and to relax in. Mr. Chairman. There is no need to build in the green. I am extremely pleased with the letter sent yesterday by the VNG on behalf of the congregations to our Chamber. Especially if the circular economy gets more steam, more industrial areas can be transformed into housing locations. And yes, that often costs a little bit more effort in the short term, but municipalities say that that can be done fine. In fact, they warn against mobility problems if cities continue to expand outside the greenery. I therefore have three questions for the Minister. The first is what the Minister is doing in concrete terms to stimulate urban construction. The second is how she and her colleague from IenW, because it is really a joint responsibility, is going to ensure that housing and mobility are properly coordinated. And the third question is whether, if built, she sees opportunities to shape these inner urban developments including nature. Mr. Chairman. Let's take a look across the border. In Belgium, a country in which long ribbon construction was often done in the past, "concrete stop" is now an established term. In Bavaria, there are court rulings on the demands of activists for an absolute ban on the expansion of buildings outside existing territory. In a report in 2016, the European Commission even advocated a future ban on building in green. I am very curious to see how the Minister looks at these kinds of appeals to deal with the scarce green, precisely because once the Green Party for the Animals has been sacrificed, the Party for the Animals has also been lost forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u38	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the 'unnecessary' category, this 30-member debate may not be number one, but it is somewhere in the top ten. Almost a year ago, I repeat: almost a year ago again, this Minister said: we need to build more. Well, indeed, it's about time. And, so she said, we should do that in the city and, if necessary, out there. That's all she actually said. But these statements gave rise to this debate for this Chamber. In the meantime, over the past year, we have had a lot of debates on the housing market and also on inner and outer building. I even printed out the reports, and I'd be happy to provide a few copies. Because, Mr President, we already know what this minister is going to say, not least because the Minister often says the same thing in debates about living. I quote. "You'd like to build an inner city. At the same time, we want those inner cities to remain viable. This means that there must be some greenery in the inner cities and that is why it is necessary to look at other areas too: the edges of the city, the ports, the water. It's just necessary, because more needs to be built." So there must be some green left, according to the Minister. Then let's turn it around. From parties that only want to build within the city to keep the green outside the city, the last green in the city is apparently allowed to leave. That's weird. And in addition, Mr President, how can we not build in the green, of course, where there is no other way? Why not? Because living in a green, natural, rustic, rural environment should appeal to the green parties? We all do! Why can't people enjoy the nature you're so a fan of living in the middle of it? That's weird, too. Mr. Chairman. The Minister wrote in her letter, the one from six months ago, that in some major urban regions it is no longer possible to cope with the need for housing in urban areas. I quote. "I therefore ask of these regions that they are already starting to increase planning capacity, including on the outskirts of the city." Is that what's happening in the meantime? Can the Minister explain that? After all, the housing shortage is large and we cannot have municipalities that can possibly train the place. I say this because Aedes writes in her letter that there would be too little urgency in a number of municipalities and provinces. Admittedly, that letter is already six months old. I understand that there would be some improvement in the meantime, but it remains striking because the Minister writes in response to questions from the PVV that the municipalities she speaks with are 'excessive'. What about now, doesn't the Minister perhaps speak to municipalities that might be a problem? If you're not aware of that, you don't have to do anything. I would like to make a few comments on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u40	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u41	Mr. Chairman. There's a huge construction assignment. Due to the large housing shortage the waiting lists run up, the rents rise too fast and buy homes become priceless. Everyone in this Chamber is happy to acknowledge that, not least the Minister. We also need everyone to address the construction assignment: developers, builders, designers, construction workers and not least municipalities. Municipalities decide where to build and they also give out land. For my party, it is important that the construction plan always looks first at urban options. That is our starting point at all levels. Building on the outskirts of the city can only be achieved if a number of conditions are met. It must not, of course, be at the expense of important nature. Access to high-quality public transport must be ensured. Of course, it is most beautiful if there is already a train station, or think about the Randstadrail. There must be sufficient facilities and sufficient support for such facilities, such as shops. We need to build climate adaptation: not on gas, zero on meter, capture rainwater and showers. Therefore, ensure sufficient green compensation. As far as I am concerned, the cost of infrastructure must also be included in the business case that is being made. Municipalities already have this opportunity and fortunately they use it as well. Only if these costs are included will there be a fair comparison. The Minister, this cabinet, also wants to build within the city. A fund has been set up to encourage and facilitate inner city building. My question to the Minister is therefore: what is the status of this fund? When will the first applications be granted? Can we be informed about this? So inner city building must be leading. If that space is not sufficient to comply with the construction plan, I hear a lot of parties saying that this is the case. The edges of the city are then obvious. It is obvious to build where it is rather messy spatially. Perhaps there are old industrial sites that are largely empty. Fortunately, the experience is that municipalities also opt for this line on a massive scale. Since we also discussed this extensively during the AO in January, I would like to leave it at that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u42	That calls for a few interruptions. First of all, by Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u43	Just to be safe, because the outskirts of the city you can always move on. In time, the next city will be in sight again. I would therefore like to know from Mrs Van Eijs whether, like the PvdA, D66 can continue to be seen as the protector of nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u44	Oh, yeah. We have also shared in the AO. I hope that I can make that clear here again: we need to look in the first, second and third place in the city. We have to do that first and then we can talk about the outskirts of town.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u45	That is a very clear order and priority: so do not build the place into the green, but first look in the city.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u46	I welcome those last words from Mrs Van Eijs of D66, but the question is then what instruments we are using to ensure that urban construction is really more interesting. In the past, GroenLinks and D66 have taken the initiative together to introduce an open space charge. I was wondering if D66 is still in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u47	I don't think he's in the plans right now. I think there's a lot of pressure on it right now and there's a demand for inner-city locations. We see that there is a lot of demand from people who want to live next door to the station or in the middle of the bustling city centre. I think that we should now concentrate on making the development of these inner-city locations possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u48	Mr Smeulders, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u49	I fully agree that we should make this possible, but an open space levy could do so in two ways, namely by making building outside the city more expensive and by using that money if it is being built to enable these developments within the city. Does D66 see the benefits of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u50	I can imagine that this measure has that effect, but I would first like to think about whether it does not have other effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u51	The Minister has made an appeal to show courage and ambition and also to build on the edges of the city in green. I hear the fraction of D66 now making an apple to keep the green as much as possible. I am very curious how the D66 representative assessed the Minister's statement, having also heard her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u52	I think the Minister's ruling was in line with the question that has been discussed more often. There is a very large demand in various housing transfers. The Minister himself has also indicated that we have shared that in the AO that there is indeed being deployed in inner city locations, for example with that fund, and that you could possibly think at the edges of the city if those inner city locations are all developed. That's how I interpreted the Minister's ruling. In this way, we have also exchanged it with each other in general consultations. But I'm sure she'll come back to that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u53	Thank you. I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Dik-Faber. I think that question has been answered to my satisfaction. Then we'll go to Mr. Ronnes of the CDA. Oh, no, I see I'm skipping someone. Everyone's gonna pay attention right away, I see. I call Mrs Dik-Faber. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In January, the Minister called for courage and ambition to build houses. Of course, I totally agree with that. The shortage of housing is severe. This is particularly felt by starters in the housing market. But I do mean a different kind of courage, ambition and creativity, namely to spare the scarce greenery around town and village as much as possible and to build in the city. If you look at the maps of the Green Heart, you will see how in a few decades there has only been a fraction of them left. Fortunately, no one is saying that it is the intention to build that last stamp. But by opening the door to building in the green on the edge of the village or city we remove the pressure to build mainly within cities and villages. Building well in the green is a big step in the wrong direction, especially because of the added value it has to get out of the city, into the green. The green is worth too much to give up on an unbridled growth of the city. But there's more, Mr. Chairman. Apart from building in the green, I'm in favour of building in the city. In the city there is a better accessibility of catering, shops and businesses. There is less car use in favour of public transport, bike and pedestrian. There is more support for collective services, such as energy cooperatives. Does the Minister agree with me that building outside the city is not necessarily easier or cheaper if we also include the cost of extra mobility or the loss of open space? Mr. Chairman. The Minister states in her letter that in some metropolitan regions it is already clear that we need to build in the green, but we see beautiful inner city projects in cities such as Amsterdam, Utrecht and The Hague. The VNG also shows the ambition to achieve most of the construction task within the city. The appeal to provinces and municipalities is simply not very good for that reason. On the contrary, they, the provinces and municipalities, show the ambition to build within the city and see plenty of opportunities for this. Is the Minister prepared to protect the scarce green space as much as possible and to apply the principle of "no, unless" for building in the outskirts? Is it prepared to discuss this with the UNG? Is the Minister prepared to guarantee the Dutch landscape as a national interest in the National Environment Vision? Does the Minister see opportunities to provide climate adaptation via multifunctional space use in the city, for example better drainage of rainwater, isolation and cooling cities? Of course, it's not just about climate-adaptive building, but also about nature-including building. That's the word I just heard GroenLinks put forward. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Building in the green isn't art, building in the inner city is. Provinces and municipalities show that it is possible. I hope the Minister will support that fresh and creative view of provinces and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u55	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Ronnes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate was requested because people were shocked by the Minister's signal that we might have to build in the green. The Minister wants to take into account all interests that building sufficient housing is given more priority, if necessary in the green. We support the Minister in that. In fact, we think there should be a tooth. The Housing Agenda, which we are about to discuss here, states that up to 2025, 75,000 new homes will have to be built to meet the needs. We have to note that we are running behind the facts. It is not realistic to assume that we are building all these homes in the city. I think whoever thinks that is just naive. Even the lecturer's transformation Cees-Jan Pen says that's impossible. We also have to build outside the urban agglomerations, not because it's fun, but because there's no other way. It has to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u57	I heard the word "naïve." Anyone who thinks that the task can be accomplished within the city is "naïve." Now I have read a letter from the VNG saying that 80% to 100% of the task can be realized within the city. But it did say that this included the Vinex neighbourhoods. Are the congregations naive?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u58	Yes. I have to say that the figures are quite far apart. Looking at the ABF report that we had at the beginning of this year, it is clear that there are regions that really cannot meet the needs. In addition, the Home in the Future of NEPROM report has also been published, which states that only 55% of the total number of homes required can be built in inner urban areas. Just now the example of South Holland was mentioned. 20% of the homes are built outside the urban area. We can say here that we do not want to do so, but you should not close your eyes to the fact that the reality is there and then you must make a qualitatively good assessment where it can and where it cannot, with quality gains for the region where it plays, if it can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u59	Certainly: quality gains. I think we can also achieve a lot of quality with inner city building.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u60	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u61	And yet, the municipalities themselves say that they can realize 80% to 100% of the construction plan in urban areas. The municipalities admitted that they didn't think that a year ago, but they mapped it out. Isn't it much better to ask these municipalities how they're going to fix that for us, so that we can keep that green together, than to throw municipalities to the ears with reports about maybe half outside the city or the village? Then we'll give that green price too easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u62	Don't get me wrong, I'm not against using the no-unless principle, and we're looking in the city first on our own, we can't do that everywhere anymore. You can see from the figures provided by the provinces and by the municipalities themselves that it is simply not possible to achieve enough housing in the high pressure areas. I just can't. It must also be said that it is going too slowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u63	I see Mrs Dik-Faber hesitating. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u64	I hear the CDA say: just South Holland builds in the green, and that is necessary, but I have here a newspaper article: South Holland distances from Ollongren; not building in the green. Your own CDA deputy in South Holland is getting away from it. Many large cities where the housing shortage is the greatest, distance themselves from that call. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u65	I see it as a call for everything to be built in green without any preconditions, but it is not. I take South Holland as an example, because I have the figures for comparison here. The province of Zuid-Holland is at a ratio of 80% inner city and 20% outside, so the figures indicate that. We can pretend that that doesn't happen, but the reality is that you can't do it building alone in urban areas. That's not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u66	I've got numbers here, too. Cobouw says: we can build 170,000 homes in urban areas in 20 years, and we don't need that building in the greens at all to meet our construction needs. They are asking for creativity in the Empire to be built in a different way. Then you're all set. Then all the green can be preserved, including the inner urban green. That's what the CDA should be for, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u67	We are sure that the houses you mention will be built within the city, but that is only a fraction of what we need. The CDA doesn't want people sleeping under the bridge right now. The CDA doesn't want students to be forced into tents when they go to study in the big city. The CDA doesn't want kids to be able to go to college in the big city because it's become priceless. We just need to add houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u68	The fact that we need a million new homes by 2040 is totally out of the blue, experts also say. They say there's another way to build it, for single people and seniors. That group's wishes for residence have not yet been examined at all. The demand for housing varies from time to time and from region to region. It is not at all true that if we do not build in the green now, we will have a housing emergency problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u69	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u70	Whether the CDA can take back those words...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u71	No, I'm definitely not gonna take back any words. You are now saying a number of things on which we can find each other very well; that we are building suitable homes for those target groups, that we see that due to an ageing population there is a need for smaller homes, and that people live longer at home. That kind of thing is relevant and we can certainly find each other there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u72	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u73	I will. Mr. Chairman. We should not have the situation in which we make it very difficult, in advance, by means of legal means, to achieve housing outside defined contours. This reduces the supply unnecessarily and it also ensures that we do not get the best quality location development. Authorisations should be granted more quickly. Provinces must make their detail much more relevant. Away with the gemillimeter, if it's up to us, especially in the provinces with too little hard planning capacity. We want to help the provinces by taking the housing out of the ladder. That sounds a little cryptic, but I'll explain. In our country, we have organised it in such a way that, in all spatial decisions of some magnitude that allow for new urban development, the so-called Ladder for sustainable urbanisation must be applied. In practice, this is a tricky thing: a lot of bureaucracy, a lot of procedures and a lot of precious time. That ladder is a drama of good intentions that degenerates into "a festival of research reports and legal figures," as Professor Friso de Zeeuw once put it. As far as the CDA is concerned, this ladder could be considered as a balancing framework for municipalities and provinces, but should not be a legal instrument. Surely we can rely on sensible decisions by municipalities and provinces and on the control of municipal councils and provincial states on those decisions? We are considering giving more form to this in a motion, but I am looking forward to the discussion that will take place in the first period of this debate. Mr President, I see a number of people standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u74	Maybe it'll be nice if you finish your story. Then we still have time for interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u75	No time to lose. No time to waste. It has taken many years to identify suitable construction sites, unlock them and realize homes. If a municipality designates a location today, the completion will be in 2028. That's three cabinets away. That's an inexplicable situation, isn't it? ABF's report shows that there are three provinces that simply lack hard planning capacity. The amazing thing is that I'm getting signals from these provinces from municipalities that the county will stop if they come up with housing plans. We want it to be built. Municipalities want it, but county and complex regulations block it. Can the Minister explain that? I'm curious to hear her response in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u76	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u77	I am a little shocked by the CDA's words, because the Ladder for sustainable urbanization is not called that for nothing. It is precisely to ensure sustainable urbanisation, i.e.: to ensure that we all create a sustainable, good living environment and not open the door to unbridled Vinex locations and Belgian practices. So I wonder what the CDA is trying to achieve with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u78	Absolutely not what you mean. The ladder is a legal instrument. Even if you do not have that instrument, the government still needs to make a balanced assessment of the quality of spatial use. So it's not like we can do anything. The no-unless principle then applies. In addition, the Ladder for sustainable urbanisation is also a bottleneck for many inner city solutions, which takes a long time to process. So it is not possible for us to consider "building in green: yes or no?" We are concerned with the overall construction process, which is too viscous and too slow. We can simply change that by implementing this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u79	Thank you. Mrs. Van Eijs, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u80	I'm glad to hear that the CDA at least also says "no, unless." At least that's a good thing. I believe that the Ladder for sustainable urbanisation is precisely an instrument that provinces can use to ensure that municipalities do not compete against each other with all kinds of housing projects. It is precisely an instrument that we give to provinces to play the role in housing that they are actually taking up too little at the moment. I'm seriously wondering if the CDA has thought out how you're gonna bail out "no, unless."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u81	Precisely because all this happens, that delay occurs, that poaching comes in and eventually there will be no plans from the ground. If we are to work together to ensure that people have an affordable roof over their heads in the future, then we must also make it possible to speed up housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u82	I did not say at all that people should sleep under a bridge; rather not. I think we all share that in the Chamber, so we don't have to talk about that for long. But then there's still the poachiness of churches. We all know that there are not always enough people and that there are other factors. But sacrificing such an important protective measure because it doesn't go fast enough, I really think it goes very far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u83	I would like to repeat myself, but I have already answered this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u84	I agree. I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u85	I am as perplexed about this as my colleague from D66. The CDA group says "no, unless." We also think this is very important, but the instrument of the provinces and municipalities to achieve this is the Ladder for sustainable urbanisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u86	This is also a bit of a repetition, so I would ask you to ask a new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u87	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. But I'm just really freaked out about this. What kind of instrument do municipalities have left if we take away the only instrument they now have?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u88	They will always have to demonstrate a balanced balance between spatial use. So it's not like that ladder's gonna get rid of the whole discussion. But now you see that the process with the ladder is extremely frustrating and takes an enormous amount of time. This even results for inner city solutions as a result that processes take a very long time before the oh so necessary homes are realized. There's really got to be houses! It's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u89	Mrs. Dik-Faber, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u90	We are in complete agreement on the latter: housing needs to be added. And indeed, spatial planning procedures have not been implemented from today to tomorrow. But if Mr Ronnes says he stands for careful use of space, then that also means: first build inner city and only then look at the edges of the city. And again, the only instrument that municipalities have is the Ladder for sustainable urbanization. Let's not take that away from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u91	I do not hear a question in that, so I would like to give the floor to Mrs Laan-Selschap of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The housing shortage is high, very high. My colleague gave it to me, too. We can now speak of a national problem. It is therefore of the utmost importance that "we" start building more houses at a rapid rate. "We," we're not, and that's not the government, but that's the market. It is not for nothing that the VVD, together with the CDA, has advocated the adaptation of the Crisis and Recovery Act, so that housing can be part of it. The Minister recently sent this law to the Chamber, for which he thanked. The question is, of course, where are we going to build these million homes in our little country? We suffer from space competition, because we want to live, work, recreate and move on the same square meters. And we also want something with sustainability. Therefore, sharp choices need to be made. We are very curious about the choices that will be made in the National Environment Vision. The first question is this: are the regions going to be imposed construction targets from The Hague? Tens of thousands of homes of planning capacity remain on the shelf. What is the Minister going to do to get these plans implemented first? Where's the spokesmen? What are we gonna do about it? And to what extent are budgets linked to this from, for example, IenW, to add mobility to this? We all know the game SimCity and as a VVD we are a big supporter of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u93	Besides Netflix also computer games at the VVD!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u94	You're funny.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u95	With almost everything Mrs Laan put forward, I disagreed...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u96	Delicious!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u97	...except for the fact that the Empire needs to do much more, that money must be added and that investment funds must be provided. Could we hang out in that together? This minister only points to municipalities, while the Empire really has to do something about the housing shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u98	Again it is typical PvdA to put the VVD words in the mouth, and I do not go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u99	Well, I think Mrs. Laan said that the Empire really needs to do something and that there should be construction targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u100	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u101	Well, I agree. But Mrs Laan is now saying that I distorted her words, so I would like to explain this further. The Minister has so far refused to do so on a continuous basis. She said all the time: I have a weak covenant that the municipalities haven't signed, and that's how we solve the housing shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u102	For example, I did not say the word 'investment fund', nor did I talk about finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u103	I'll give you a chance to get another targeted...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u104	Yeah, I just want to... I'm just asking a serious question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u105	I understand, but maybe you could just ask a specific question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u106	The specific question is: does Mrs Laan think that one, the government should agree hard targets with the municipalities and two, should also be made available for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u107	To part two, I answer no. On part one: if you're going to talk seriously about the National Environment Vision, I think you should agree to what extent things are agreed in that vision that people should stick to. I would like to discuss this with you: to what extent will that vision determine things for the people of the country? Then, chairman, I'll continue with my story. The VVD has a preference for urban construction, but if building in green is necessary to meet the high demand, then so is the case. In our view, however, green is something other than nature. Of course, there can be no building in nature. In green, the VVD mainly thinks of former agricultural areas on the edges of cities and villages. These locations are perfectly suited for building and to meet the large housing needs. However, at which exact locations it is possible to build, it is up to the local government. This often knows exactly what type of housing is needed, as the contributions of other colleagues have shown. So we are not necessarily waiting for the role of the province in that. I see Mr Smeulders standing at the interrupting microphone, but the President shows me that I can talk. The VVD wants to give the minister creatively to deal with this problem: think about new housing concepts, including in the National Environment Vision, where green and living simply combine. A number of Dutch cities, such as Rotterdam and Eindhoven, started to build green residential towers: urbanly in the height, where vertical cities are realized. What does the Minister think of this concept? And for even further in the future, because governance is forward-looking and so the Minister can increase the territory of the Interior....................................................................................................................................................................................... This will reduce the pressure on available space at the moment. So much for my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u108	Thank you. Thank you for your patience, Mr. Smeulders. You have the floor for your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u109	I am very happy to hear that the VVD certainly does not want to build in nature either. I do have a question on the basis of another remark, namely that you want to use the National Environment Vision as a hard instrument towards regions or municipalities, for example. Is it true that you're actually saying that? Because the image I have of the National Environment Vision is that it is binding on the government, but it is more an inspiration document for provinces and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u110	If you know that, you already know a lot more than I do, because that did not come out of the round table we had last year on the National Environment Vision. As far as the VVD is concerned, the National Environment Vision should be directed at a number of elements, at national interests. For the national problem that we are raising today, which is housing, that vision should be steering.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u111	Good to hear. Do you also consider, for example, that the government can be guided by renewable energy objectives in the same environmental vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u112	I think that is a different debate and you should be with my colleague Yeşilgöz, who knows all about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u113	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen for her second interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u114	I hear the VVD say: we do not want to build in nature. Great, that's very nice and very good to hear. But you do think of meadows and other greenery around the city. Doesn't the VVD agree with the Party for Animals that we need to keep green around the city? Then people can catch their breath and walk and recreate. In addition, it is extremely important for biodiversity and as a buffer to be able to absorb water when it rains very much and the rivers are high.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u115	As you may know, or perhaps not, I am from Rotterdam. There are also incredibly many possibilities to solve the water collection in a different way. That's one. The second part of your question is: don't you need that buffer? In some places, I think. That is why I refer specifically to the local government. On the other hand: you all here act as if it is so easy to solve everything within the city, but you will only live in a city like Rotterdam, which is extremely petrified and fortified. You just want to add people and things there. This alone will not increase the quality of life in a number of cities. And we will not solve the problem in the Netherlands, but you will increase the problems for the people who live in the inner city. I think it is very shortsighted of a number of colleagues to want to do everything there. So I'm thinking, And as I said before, not all the greenery in the Netherlands is necessarily nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u116	Thank you. Don't you have a follow-up question, Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u117	Yes, I do. Is it short-sighted? No, the Party for Animals finds it very short-sighted when it is precisely that scarce nature that is built up in the Netherlands, both on the edges of the cities and in the inner city. There are a lot of innovative opportunities to build inside and keep the green. Do we find the VVD on our side and then from the Empire to support the municipalities to come up with these innovative and creative solutions, so that we can build urbanly as needed and at the same time look at the viability in the cities by saving the greenery there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u118	That's a really long question. I wonder what Mrs Laan is going to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u119	Mr President, you will know me as someone who always does not talk too long, but to the point. Again, we as VVD have enormous confidence in the market. I'm from Rotterdam. We know that a lot of innovative construction is being carried out by companies. Mrs Van Kooten referred several times to the conversion of offices. That happens all the time. Companies and companies make money from that, but a lot of people also enjoy living in old schools or other buildings, for example. So that's what's happening. And what I think you are suggesting here, along with a number of parties, is that the national government should pull the plug to give some companies money so that municipalities can build inner city. And we think that's gonna happen on its own. And again, as far as the VVD is concerned not in nature but in the green occasionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u120	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that she can reply immediately. I would like to give Members the opportunity to intervene twice, if necessary, but these must be short interruptions. I see that the interruptions are quite long. It's important, also looking at time, to be a little more effective. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is very good that we are having a discussion here today on how to ensure sufficient good, sustainable, affordable housing in the Netherlands. Because that's what the discussion is really about. It is a discussion that may sometimes be held very black and white, or in this case it is actually more red and green, but it is not that simple. It's actually a very complex discussion. What I said about this and what was also in De Telegraaf was in January of this year, so that is indeed some time ago was actually an attempt to tell that nuanced story properly. The one who summarized that best today was Mr Kops. I would like to congratulate him on that. What I have said is that we have a huge construction task, that we must give priority to housing in the Netherlands and that we must do so in the context of all these interests. These are the interests of a spatial nature, the interests of open space, greenery, sustainability, infrastructure, climate adaptation, nature including building; all these terms that have also been mentioned here today. That actually indicates how complicated that discussion is. The fact is that there are many people in the Netherlands who are looking for a suitable home, an affordable home and that at the moment there is just a big shortage of it. This is true for all those groups, we know them; you have just called them students, starters, families, middle-income people, elderly people who are looking for a suitable home. At the moment it is quite locked in a large number of regions in the Netherlands. Of course it is necessary to search as much as possible within built area for opportunities, also because the house seekers want to live there. The city is in demand. Urban areas are popular. People, even if they live in smaller municipalities, do want to live with the facilities they need. They want to live there from where they can also go elsewhere, so at Ov nodes. If it's possible in the inner city, I think it's also preferable. My point is: in order to really meet the housing needs, not only now but also in the future, it is really necessary to be creative, given the forecasts. Then it is necessary to look at the edges of the built area. Then it is necessary to look at the areas just listed by Mr Kops. Think of the raffle edges. Think of the old industrial areas. Think of the ports. Think of areas that can be transformed. They often lie at the edges of the city. Besides, the edge of the city often gets much better. So that's my call. I think that the social debate that has arisen as a result is a good discussion, because space in the Netherlands is indeed scarce.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u122	We agree on everything the Minister says now. Only building in the green is something quite different from the edges you list. The port areas, the industrial areas; do especially immediately! But building in the green is a very different kind of building on the edge than converting an industrial site. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u123	Yes. That is why I began by saying that the debate we are having now is actually a rather complex and nuanced debate. You can't simplify that to "build in the green," which in itself was a catchy headline above a newspaper article. I understand very well that people may then have the image that we here in The Hague think that we need to fill all kinds of beautiful green nature areas in the Netherlands with homes. I don't think that's the point. That's certainly not my intention. My intention is to look for more space, because I think it is fair to all those looking for housing to know that we are building on sufficient level. That's why I think you really need to handle space very creatively, also on the so-called edge of the cities and villages. That's what I wanted to report. I am also strengthened by what I encounter in the regional talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u124	Mr Smeulders, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u125	I am happy to continue with this, because the Minister can immediately take the sting out of the debate, namely by saying that it is not the intention to build on the green edges of the city. If you say that, I think we're done right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u126	May I put the following question to you? I hope that Mr Smeulders will agree with me later. What we call green and red on paper, in the planning capacity, often does not correspond at all to the image that people have of what is green and what is red, what is brick and what is a meadow. Take, for example, the MRA, the Amsterdam Metropolitan Region. Half of the current planning capacity for the next ten years is outlying. So people will now find something that is green, but what is red in the drawings at the town hall, where the plans are made, is red. So it really is a more nuanced discussion than it seems at the time it is summarized under the heading "building in the green." So I really think that Mr Smeulders and I do not have to disagree at all. That raffle edge can be a polluted industrial site one time, which everyone understands is much better if it is refurbished and if housing gets there as well. The other time it may also be a raffle edge of a city that is a little greener, but which can still be a very nice extension for those people who want to live there, because otherwise they will not be able to go to that city anymore. It seems very bad now as if we are only talking about the big cities in the Netherlands, but we are also really talking about the medium-sized municipalities of the Netherlands, the cities where we, our family and our friends all want to live, want to live or want to go, for example because they already go there for their work. That's where it's pinching. It is not just about Amsterdam, Rotterdam and The Hague. Mr. Chairman. A few more introductory words from my side and then I would like to answer the questions, as far as that has not yet happened. Ms. Laan asked about the National Environment Vision. I shall come back to this in a little more detail later, but I do think that is an important document, because it will bring together the various considerations. There will not be a complete and detailed description of how many properties come true. Mrs. Laan doesn't expect that from me at all. But there is a framework within which you can make broader considerations, for example between nature on the one hand and living on the other. Let me then immediately answer the various questions, more or less in the order in which they were asked. As I said earlier, within existing urban areas, of course, I'd love to. There's plenty of room there, too. But if we look at the current insights, even in the longer term, so after 2025, we see that building only within existing urban areas will not be enough. The how and what is very different from one region to another. The most pressing urban regions in terms of capacity, where rapid acceleration is needed, are currently the MRA, Rotterdam-Den Haag, Utrecht and Groningen. These are the regions where we are now looking at what additional measures are needed to meet housing needs. If you look at more regions in the longer term, we know that it is common. I just heard the Animal Party, the Labour Party and others refer to the VNG. I would like to say about the thesis that the inner city can be picked up: there can be a lot of inner city reception. I think all the municipalities can see that, too. I made my appeal before the municipal elections and I am very happy to note that the new municipal councils and the new colleges, within the programmes with which they work, are all very high on the agenda for housing and construction. That longer term, i.e. longer than the next few years, must also be seen. I have also called on municipalities, and indeed provinces, to do so. Mr Kops sometimes blames me for being consistent in what I am saying, so I say it again: I am talking to the municipalities, with the provinces and with the regions to find out exactly where the bottlenecks are, how we can solve them and what we can do to push things forward, so that they will actually get there. Mrs Arissen of the Party for Animals asked me if I have an eye for all kinds of innovations. Yes, fortunately there are many innovations, such as building high in an ecologically friendly way. That's very good, too. There are all kinds of innovative construction solutions. I am very much in favour of that. You can also see that the transformation of business areas is taking place very innovatively, and I wholeheartedly support it. The expert team can also assist municipalities in this; I will say a little more about it later. So I'm just happy about it. So the expert team the SP asked for has been working for a while. In the past, there were several expert teams. We had expert teams for transformation, for home construction and for speeding up. Now there is one expert team on housing, which really focuses on accelerating the realisation of concrete construction sites in area development by municipalities. I have already said here: the expert team is not waiting somewhere for someone to come up with a question, but is actively talking to municipalities to see how they can help. I'm supposed to send the final report of those other expert teams, for transformation and home construction, to your Chamber shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u127	I hear the minister say: I am talking to the municipalities and the Empire is talking to the municipalities to see how we can close that task and how we can solve things. But how is it possible that yesterday the Association of Dutch Municipalities sent a letter to all spokesmen with support for non-building in the green? Actually, they're asking for the Empire's support to build inner city and make creative solutions possible. Why do they do that one day before this debate if you're already talking to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u128	I can't answer that question. You'll have to ask the VNG. I think we have already noted that we actually agree on that important point, as much urban as possible and where it can use the space at the edges of the city. I believe that Mrs Dik-Faber has just referred to the transformation fund. That is one of the instruments I am using to ensure that there is still money, where it is still difficult, for example, because of the pre-financing or the uneconomic summit. The municipalities also know that I can serve them. Of course, I am also talking to other parties, because I would like others to make money available on top of the 38 million I can make available. Then the fund gets bigger and we can realize more with it. So we are actually very good in consultation. I have not seen that letter myself, but if that letter also takes away the misunderstanding about building in green, then that has happened. And that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u129	Does the Minister recognise in the concerns of municipalities that the relaxation of the regulations will make it possible to build more externally in the green and that it will make it more difficult to build inner-city and find innovative solutions there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u130	That would be the case if someone proposed to make building in the green completely separate from other considerations now possible. That's not what's happening. I also fully agree that we should not expand in order to remove the incentive to build urban areas. No, the reason to look at other possibilities is that urban building simply does not offer sufficient solace. I am in no way looking to remove the stimulus of inner urban construction. I hope you will also see that I want to make the most of this by making funds available to the transformation fund. My signal is: it is not enough; we will have to do more than just urban.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u131	Mrs. Arissen, you want to ask another question? Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u132	Thank you, Mr President. I have one more question, namely whether it's not... I lost him. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u133	That's okay. I shall now give the floor to Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u134	I would like to ask the Minister what she is going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u135	That is a very general question! I suspect that Mr Nijboer is referring to: what is the Minister going to do to ensure that there is a faster and more building? I've already announced a number of things. I have said, for example, that I want to reach agreements as soon as possible with the regions where it is most vulnerable. That's what I'm doing. I would like to work with the cabinet to ensure that the houses that are being built are as compatible as possible with other plans, for example in mobility infrastructure, roads and public transport. That is why I am talking to Secretary of State Van Veldhoven and Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen with those same regions to ensure that the decisions taken on infrastructure are in line with the decisions taken on housing. I have already mentioned the transformation fund, but perhaps it is good to give three examples. I am, of course, talking to the provinces to look at the planning capacity, the soft and hard planning capacity, the shorter term and the somewhat longer term. These are a number of instruments that I can use to ensure, under decentralised policies, that we build faster and more quickly in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u136	Thank you. I would like to say to Members of Parliament that there will be more than one AO's and debates on this subject. In this 30-member debate, I propose that we focus on the specific subject. Otherwise, it's gonna be very common. Mr Nijboer, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u137	Mr President, I thought for a moment that you complimented me, because a shorter interruption than I just did is almost impossible. Because that was your request: brief. I hear a lot of discussions and talking circuits here, while this stone was thrown into the pond as early as January. The Minister remembers that, too. If I see 38 million in a transformation fund spread over a few years, while 1 million homes are needed, that is exactly €38 per home. Don't tell me that's gonna make you feel better when you're in housing trouble. The Minister should simply ignore the whole story of the VVD and underline that one point: the Empire must intervene now and set tough targets, and put money instead of cutting back. I'll say that myself. The VVD didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u138	More is being built than ever before. I will never beat myself up for that, because it is the municipalities and the aldermen who take care of it and do so. That's the market, that's the housing corporations, that's a lot of parties that have to take care of that. And yet that is still insufficient. The instrument I have is to sit with the regions, with the drivers, with the market players and to solve very specific bottlenecks. One of these bottlenecks is that inner city building is sometimes too expensive and uneconomic. That's why I created a transformation fund. The big problem with building is not the money, but in some areas it is. So you don't need a huge amount of money for that, but you do need a run-in amount and then I think 38 million is an extremely serious behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u139	Mr Nijboer for his second interruption, please be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u140	The big problem is money, too. On the one hand, you have rules like Empire, and on the other hand, you have an investment fund. Look at the housing prices and how the housing corporations stand. I only have to mention Vestia here in The Hague, but also others. They just need money to build affordable homes. And they're gonna need money, or they're not gonna be affordable. The Minister can do that with an investment fund, but the cabinet does not choose to do so. It opts for cuts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u141	The investment space of the housing corporations in the Netherlands is sufficient for the coming period. The investment capacity of individual housing corporations may sometimes be insufficient. And that's a bottleneck we have to work out with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u142	Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u143	Yes, Mr President, but I fear there will be endless talk about this, but there will be no such solution. People do live in an individual house in an individual municipality, and they rent it from an individual housing corporation. If half have enough money and the other half don't, then half of the municipalities are in housing shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u144	This has been discussed in an AO this afternoon and I have said that there are already possibilities in which housing corporations can be invited to participate. I think that's very good. And I'm also watching, along with the sector, if there are any other ways of getting some sort of settlement. 'Cause there's that money, it just has to go to the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u145	Thank you. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen, you had one more question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u146	Mr President, I remember the question, thank you very much. The Minister wrote in her letter of office in March: I want to build on the needs of the house seekers, in a way that fits in as best as possible. Now Professor Woningbouw says to TU Delft: most of the people looking for housing in the near future, but also later, will be seniors and singles, but the living wish of that group has not really been investigated at all. My question to the Minister is: is that so, and does she intend to investigate it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u147	Now I'm talking a little bit out of my past in Amsterdam. Much is known about the changing composition of the people living in our cities. There are indeed many more single people. We often talk about the shortage of housing, but certain areas in the Netherlands are, of course, shrinking regions. This is often about the elderly and an ageing population, the elderly who can't actually get out of the house they live in, while that house isn't appropriate to their needs. So I think we know more about that than Mrs Arissen is suggesting right now. And I do think that the market and supply need to adapt much more to demographic developments, but of course they vary greatly from region to municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u148	Thank you. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u149	I thought Mr Nijboer and at least Mrs Dik-Faber said that outlying building is much cheaper. According to them, that's the drive behind this agenda. I hope I have just made it clear that this was not the intention of my statement at all. I want to realize as much inner city as possible. I would also like to contribute to this. Nor do I believe that it is always by definition cheaper or faster to build outside urban areas. You also have to take into account the opening up of areas. I don't think it's always cheaper or always more expensive. In any case, on this question, I repeat that I am committed to urban areas. I can see that sometimes it is more expensive and sometimes there is an uneconomic summit; hence the fund that could help. Mr Smeulders asked how we live and how we coordinate mobility issues. I just said something about that. We do this by working together with the IenW leaders, including in the context of the MIRT and the decision-making process, as much as possible. We do this by talking with the regions and encouraging them as much as possible to connect housing locations and mobility; so building in easily accessible places. The Ov nodes are very important in this respect. Mr Van Gerven of the SP asked if I was prepared to continue to protect the green. Fortunately, the green is well protected in the Netherlands. We have the national nature network that is protected. We can't build there. We also have a good habit that when new urbanization comes, it is only possible after a very careful consideration. That is also what the Ladder for sustainable urbanization is for. It focuses on as much concentration of urbanization as possible. I shall come back to that in a moment, following Mr Ronnes' question. Mr Kops points out that in his view municipalities do not do enough to build. My picture is that municipalities really see that construction plan. There are new lectures, and in the new coalition agreements that have been concluded in all the municipalities I see great urgency when it comes to the construction assignment. There are, of course, different views about how they want to realize this construction assignment and where they want to build it. That is precisely why I say that we should not want to do the same for everyone here. We must go to tailor-made work by region, by cluster of municipalities, of course, with the involvement of the province. You can very often define the need for housing regionally. It doesn't necessarily have to be very precise in that one municipality. On the contrary, it is often good to involve the cluster of municipalities. Mr Kops felt that we should not deny people living in nature either. There are very nice places in the Netherlands that are very rural. Fortunately, you can also live in nature in the Netherlands. If we're talking about the nature that isn't being built right now, then that's also a public good. Others in the Chamber have said this. Nature is also there for everyone and also for everyone. Then it is important that this nature is easily accessible and available in our small and fairly densely populated country. I'd like to give people a chance to live close to nature. This is also quite possible in some parts of our country. A massive construction in the green wouldn't relate well to that. I believe that Mr Smeulders asked me what I thought of the idea of an open space levy. I believe that this has been a cherished wish of GroenLinks for many years. I wonder whether an open space levy is the instrument for achieving what Mr Smeulders and, in fact, I want, above all, to meet a great need for urban construction. I was just talking about redistribution between corporations, for example. It's complicated. Here you should also achieve a redistribution between municipalities. It may be a little dependent on the way in which you introduce this levy, but if the revenue from the levy were for the municipality itself, it might, oddly enough, be an incentive for the municipality to develop outlying locations, but that is probably not the design that Mr Smeulders wants. I understand what he means by this, but I do not think it is an instrument that is now necessary to achieve this task. I had already had Mrs Dik-Faber's question on how expensive versus cheap development was. She was still asking about climate adaptation. That is of course extremely important and fortunately we all know that in the Netherlands. As far as I am concerned, that will be one of the subjects in this National Environment vision, which is still under development. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked about the national landscapes. In the National Environment Vision, the landscape will indeed receive attention. That is one of the subjects that we believe should be looked at and taken into account. It is still under development, so the way you have to wait and see. But it certainly plays an important role in spatial considerations. Mr Ronnes asked about the Ladder for sustainable urbanization. I just said something about it. He was critical of it, I believe especially if it is an instrument of the province. This will make the process longer in his eyes and so we would not be able to build quickly enough. The first is that the ladder has recently been simplified, because there have been complaints about the complexity of its use. We have an investigation from the PBL, the Planning Office for the Environment. This study shows that almost all municipalities apply this Ladder standard for sustainable urbanisation. On the basis of the recent simplification and the fact that municipalities apply it and that it seems to be satisfactory, I do not see any reason at the moment to change it further. I believe that the ladder can help to ensure careful consideration and at the same time I do not get any signals, not even from the talks I have with regions, that the instrument leads to longer procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u150	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u151	The minister says all the municipalities use him. Yeah, pretty weedy they're using him. Because the moment they don't use it right now, there's just no plans going through. This applies to both inner city and outer city plans. I'm getting signals. What worries me most is that this is mainly from the provinces where people are really lagging behind in building capacity and where they are driven by forecasts. In addition, you can see that they are really just inadequate when it comes to the reality of what is going on in the housing market. I spoke to the alderman of Meierijstad recently. He's just really running into procedures, where he actually knows it's gonna happen eventually. But the lead time of the processes is so hugely long and so hugely complex that the CDA really wonders what added value that ladder has. Because outside that ladder, the municipality and the province also have a duty to use the space economically and to make careful consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u152	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u153	Can I make one more comment? I also have no objection to using him as a review framework, but not as a legal framework, and that is what is happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u154	The ladder is, of course, actually a balancing instrument. It is not an end in itself, but an instrument to help with careful consideration. I have a lot of understanding. Of course, I'm trying to contribute to that. Mr Ronnes was the major driver of an adaptation of the Crisis and Recovery Act. I'm very grateful to him for that. It is coming, and it will see, among other things, that procedures are getting shorter where that can be done. Of course, without compromising due diligence, but as soon as possible. Procedures should not be long just because the procedure is long. If it takes some time for care, I think you should take that time. But if procedures can be shortened by shortening time limits which do not compromise due diligence, then I agree with Mr Ronnes. On the basis of his signal, I will simply ask that in the talks I have with the regions. Is this an obstacle? Is it in the ladder? How do you use that instrument anyway? It should be a balancing instrument and not an obstacle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u155	Before you continue, Mrs. Van Eijs wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u156	On the contrary, I believe that provinces have an important steering role to play in looking at where the demand lies and in making trade-offs. Does the Minister agree with me? Provinces must ensure that not all municipalities think they have to build their own villa island. On the contrary, Provinces must keep an eye on the need to maintain a good balance between supply and demand. And does the Minister agree with me that the Ladder for sustainable urbanisation is an important instrument for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u157	The provinces have that role; they can see it well. Hence they are also responsible for the planning capacity. It turns out in practice that the municipalities themselves can work with that ladder. That's, I think, very good. I do not think that this is an additional obstacle either, but I shall, of course, check it again in response to Mr Ronnes' signal. I therefore agree with Mrs Van Eijs that these provinces have that overview. It may be that one time they want to facilitate or stimulate something, while another time they will say: yes, but if I look at the whole area a little bit, then I see municipalities that are all going to do the same thing and is that wise? So the provinces can play that role very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u158	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u159	Mr Ronnes said that provinces are slowing down where, according to the ABF report, there are actually too few plans. Mr Ronnes asked me to explain that. There may be several reasons for this. Sometimes the deficit identified in the ABF report is due, for example, to missing data. This is the case, for example, in Overijssel. So it's not always that there's really a shortage, but sometimes it's just not quite in order. I myself have the focus at the moment on the regions with the most tension, which I have just mentioned. Part of the discussion with these regions is also there that we are trying to find out very precisely what the background to the figures is, in order to ensure that indeed the municipalities, but also the provinces, ensure that there are sufficient plans. If these plans are not there, Mrs Laan actually asked for them, and perhaps this is not so much about the soft planning capacity, but above all about the hard planning capacity, then we need to come up with a common approach to accelerate and improve it. I have just mentioned a number of specific actions that I am taking. After all, it is important that these plans are implemented and actually implemented as soon as possible. This means that for the short term, but also for the long term, sufficient building plans in the regions, which can also be implemented in time. This also applies in the long term, so that we do not get back into the same situation next time. I have already said a few things about the NOVI, but Mrs Laan asked for it. I actually see it as an integral framework and a long-term vision in which you can make trade-offs that contribute to a sustainable physical environment in the Netherlands. We can see that a lot of new issues have arisen. For example, we were talking about climate adaptation. We also see that there is a high degree of urgency behind such developments. That Novi should actually help us and provide us with a framework within which we can work on improving and developing our living environment. Mrs Laan also asked whether the regions would be subject to construction targets, i.e. from the NOVI. I told you, the NOVI won't be that specific. The Novi is the overarching image. After that we also get it by province and also by municipality. As you walk down those stairs, of course, it gets more specific. So there will be no construction targets in the NOVI, but the regions, which know their own housing needs best, will of course have these construction targets. I'll talk to them about that, too. I will also challenge them and see if their own targets are ambitious enough, and otherwise, of course, I will try to get them even more ambitious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u160	There is an interruption by Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u161	I also asked this question to the VVD, but I am very curious what the Minister says about it. Is the NOVI now or not binding on provinces and municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u162	That seems like a very easy question, but that is actually a very complicated question. Because if it is a good balancing framework, then of course provinces and municipalities have to follow up on the fact that a certain balance is being made in the NOVI. That is why the NOVI is not established or conceived here in a tower in The Hague. This is of course done in consultation, also with provinces and municipalities. So it is not a legal instrument, but it is an instrument that enables us all to make certain choices. To this extent, you could say that, of course, all of us are bound by the agreements we make with the other governments. We have already made some of them, because in the intergovernmental programme we are, of course, already giving direction to certain tasks that we have; 'climate adaptation' has often been used as a word here. So in that sense, it forces it in a certain direction, because we say to each other: these are the choices we have to make. We have a beautiful country, but we also have a relatively small country. And so you have to make choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u163	To go on with that a follow-up question. Do provinces and municipalities have the ability to write something down in their own environmental vision that is contrary to that of the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u164	The paper is patient so it can always be done, but that is obviously not the intention. The intention is to help each other and strengthen each other in it. There are already regions that have an environmental vision. Of course, there is room for regions to make their own choices, but if we do it right with each other, then the NOVI is an instrument that helps them and not an instrument that gets in their way. We have a good tradition of working together in the Netherlands. We are going to test it in this area in the near future, but I am very positive and optimistic about it. I think I said something about innovative concepts. Mr President, I have to see if I have done everyone justice. I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u165	I think so, when I look at everyone like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u166	Okay, if you say so, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u167	I'll take a look at the members. I would also like to thank the Minister for her contribution in the first term. Is there still a need for a second term? Yes, I see that there is a need for this in some Members. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Given the time available, I would really like to ask you just to read out the motions or perhaps ask a short question. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u168	Mr President, could you suspend one minute? Because there are problems with the printer; my motion is currently being printed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u169	One minute is fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u170	The printer has been repaired, so I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u171	Thank you very much for the suspension, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for answering the questions. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many municipalities feel hampered by the Minister's call to "build out in the green" and to relax their regulations in their aim of saving greenery around the towns and villages;]] [[invites the government to engage with the Association of Dutch Municipalities in how innovative, sustainable and green-friendly inner city building and/or remodeling and the creation of creative housing solutions by the Empire need support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that green is invaluable for the welfare of humans and animals, biodiversity and climate adaptation;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that there is no green construction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-422]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-423]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u172	Mr President, I have one motion. There is no doubt that the content speaks for itself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a shortage of housing and that more affordable housing or housing is needed in the short term;]] [[Whereas there are often sufficient sites within the built-up area to be built, such as in old industrial sites;]] [[calls on the government to encourage municipalities to offer building land within the built-up area at affordable prices so that more affordable housing or rentals can be built quickly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-424]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u173	Finally, a comment about the uneconomic summit; he already came along. The Minister has mentioned an amount of 38 million over several years. The question is whether 38 million is sufficient, given the picking-up legislation that is in force for housing corporations when you see what they all have to pay in taxes. Can't that 38 million be raised to put an end to the uneconomic summit in municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u174	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. I found it clear, except for one point: my last question about the National Environment Vision. To what extent is it binding on municipalities and provinces? I ask the Minister to clarify this. That doesn't necessarily have to be today, it can also be through a letter. That seems relevant to me because so many municipalities and provinces are now working on their own vision. Then it is important to know whether you should relate to the vision of the Empire. We also have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities consider that the vast majority of the landlord's landlord's landlord can have a place within existing towns and villages;]] [[Whereas this further urbanisation calls for the maintenance and sustainability of accessibility;]] [[points out that the Empire tackles this challenge together with cities and regions in order to accelerate house production;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, together with municipalities, how efficient, sustainable and space-saving mobility that is well suited to the expansion of cities can be ensured and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders, Mr Nijboer and Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-425]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u176	It may be a disadvantage that we all have slightly divided portfolios, but I understand from my colleague on mobility that this is already a policy that is already in place and that it has already been discussed in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u177	This came about after discussions with aldermen of ours in the cities. They say that this is the point where the inner city building is not yet sufficiently smooth. Take Haven-Stad in Amsterdam. I think the Minister is very familiar with that. That is a huge task. There are 40,000 to 70,000 homes realized in urban areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u179	That is a huge mobility issue. This is what it takes, not only from I and M, but also from BZK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u180	Thank you. We're gonna listen to the Minister for her response to the motion. I see that Mr Kops is abandoning his second term. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u181	Mr President, a brief contribution from me as well. This is a discussion in which various things, such as mobility, the NOVI, but also financial frameworks, are discussed. But in the end, of course, it is a rather simple question: do we want to build in green? The CDA said it, and I'm gonna say it again, no, unless. As far as D66 is concerned, it has to be downtown first. We will therefore table a motion together with the Christian Union to emphasise this once again, should there be any doubt or uncertainty about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u182	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering all the questions. I think that many misunderstandings have been removed today, but also earlier. As Mrs Van Eijs has already announced, we are tabling a motion to remove any misunderstandings that may still exist. It's about the no-unless the Ladder's principle for sustainable urbanization. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities show the ambition to realise the vast majority of the construction work within existing cities and villages;]] [[Whereas we must protect the scarce green space as much as possible, in the interests of preserving the landscape, protecting nature and the opportunities for recreation;]] [[calls on the government to support municipalities in their ambition for inner city building and to adopt a "no' approach to building in green in line with the Ladder for sustainable urbanisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-426]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u184	Mr. Chairman. In any case, I am pleased that tonight's debate has shown that there is broad support for the no-unless principle, for the principle that you have to deal with it carefully. I am also pleased with the realistic words of this Minister, who says: it cannot all be urban. On top of that, we as CDA have looked closely at the question of where you can help municipalities and provinces. We believe that a solution can be found in the Ladder for sustainable urbanization, by extracting living from it. We have made a motion for this and it reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for all spatial decisions of some magnitude which allow for new urban development, the so-called Ladder for sustainable urbanisation is to be followed, pursuant to Article 3.6 (1) of the Spatial Planning Decision;]] [[Whereas in practice the Ladder requires a lot of research, bureaucracy, lengthy procedures and valuable time for sustainable urbanisation;]] [[Whereas municipalities should properly underpin new urban developments, but that does not require the Ladder for sustainable urbanisation;]] [[calls on the Government to rapidly adapt the Spatial Planning Decision in such a way that housing is no longer part of the Ladder for sustainable urbanisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ronnes and Mr Laan-Geselschap. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-427]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u185	I would just like to say that this last recital is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u186	Thank you. I'm gonna check on Mrs. Laan. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Minister states that she needs about two minutes to prepare her response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u187	The Minister is going to give her appreciation of the motions. She also has a few questions to answer. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u188	Mr President, what you are saying is quite correct. There are a few questions. First of all, the question of the SP. The 38 million in the transformation fund would be too little because the housing corporations have too little space anyway. In the first period, I have already found that the investment space for housing corporations is sufficient in itself across the country. That transformation fund sees precisely the very specific situations in certain inner urban areas where it is very difficult. I'm not saying it's enough. In fact, I am also talking to other parties to see if other parties want to make money for that fund. I'm gonna let it get bigger, too. In fact, I'd like that very much. But it is of a different order than investment capacity among housing corporations. The other question was from Mr Smeulders, who came back to the Novi. I will be reporting to the Chamber on the NOVI in the autumn. I think it would be a good idea to discuss this in much more detail. The NOVI belongs to the Empire, but can only work if we do so with the other governments. I was just trying to say the same thing. Even if this is from the Empire, we wouldn't do it right if we didn't do it together with the other governments. I will return to that in a letter. I am sure that Mr Smeulders is going to ask me about this in detail. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 422 belongs to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen of the Party for Animals. That motion asks me to have a conversation with the VNG. Of course, I cannot deny that to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, so I leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber. Of course I want to sit with the VNG even more than I already do. The motion in part No. 423 also belongs to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and asks the government to ensure that it is not built in green. I have tried in my first term to present a somewhat nuanced picture and to outline that in practice that distinction between red and green on paper is quite different from that in reality. I haven't advocated mass building in nature reserves at all. On the contrary. Here's what I said. If you use the inner city optimally, but this is not enough, it is really necessary to look at the edges of the city, in careful consideration. However, in that context, Mrs Arissen understands that I must discourage this motion. The motion in part No. 424 by Mr Van Gerven of the SP. It actually says that the government should tell the municipalities how to conduct their land policy. But that's not what the Empire is about; that's what the municipalities themselves are about. Moreover, the municipalities are well aware of this issue. I have a lot of conversations with municipalities and I think with them about how we should deal with land prices and middle rent, for example, but I would not want to interfere with municipal autonomy. So I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). It invites the government to examine, together with the municipalities, how I think a piece on mobility is well in line with enlargement. I have just said that I am already working in this way with colleagues from I and M with the regions. There are already concrete examples of how we want to do that. By the way, we have also informed the Chamber about this. I believe that this was in June, just before the recess, following the so-called strategic administrative discussions that we had in these regions. So there is actually a lot going on in the various areas, partly under the leadership of the colleagues of IenW. If I may interpret Mr Smeulder's motion in such a way that it is in line with this kind of investigation that is already under way, then I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u189	I would just like to see if Mr Smeulders agrees with your judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u190	I'm very happy with judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u191	Okay, fine, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u192	I had also given a small explanation, but I did not see Mr Smeulders shaking no at the time. Then I come to the motion on part No. 426 by Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Van Eijs. This is actually about what I heard Mr Ronnes say: we agree on that. Yeah, I bet you do. The carefulness and the no-unless approach, that's actually what we call standing policy. I have to say a few words about Mr Ronnes' question about the ladder, but I interpret this as the explanation that I myself gave and therefore leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber. The last motion, in part No. 427 is Mr Ronnes' motion. Mr Ronnes and I have a slightly different picture. My view is that the ladder is applied by municipalities, which helps to make a careful assessment and does not have to lead to delays. Mr Ronnes' image was that in some cases this is the case. I told you this signal didn't reach me, but I'm taking the signal seriously, of course. I would suggest that Mr Ronnes hold the motion for a moment, so that I have the opportunity to pick up and examine that signal and perhaps return it in a letter. Then we can see if he thinks it's necessary to file the motion. This is a suggestion, but of course I am entirely dependent on Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u193	I'll take a look at Mr Ronnes, see if he wants to hold the motion or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u194	We'll consider that suggestion, and then we'll let you know what we're doing with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u196	That's what brought me to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u197	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-18.u198	That concludes this debate. Normally we would vote next Tuesday, but since it is Princess Day, we are going to vote on Tuesday 25 September. I would like to thank the Minister and Members of Parliament for their reactions. I can see someone else standing by the interrupting microphone. I don't know what else you want to ask, but we've come to the end. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment.
