ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u1	A very warm welcome to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State and to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. Two ladies shine in box K. And a warm welcome to my colleagues and, of course, to all the people in the public gallery. We are going to start a debate on the amendment of the Environmental Management Act in relation to asbestos removal and products containing asbestos.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u2	I should first like to give the floor to Mr Laçin of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are indeed discussing the amendment of the Environmental Management Act, which, as far as we are concerned, roughly amounts to the ban on asbestos roofs as of 1 January 2024. As the Secretary of State and many MPs know, the SP has a long history of detecting and exposing environmental abuses, including asbestos. Our Remi Poppe was perhaps more often in Goor in his time as a Member of Parliament to talk to Eternit workers than he was here in The Hague. We have also carried out various studies on asbestos problems ourselves and have put forward proposals that lead to solutions. The reports "Help asbestos off the roof" and "Sanitation asbestos cement roofs. Doing nothing also costs a great deal" are also known to these rulers, I think. Asbestos demands about 500 to 1,000 lives a year. That continues until about 2035. Then more than 20,000 people died of mesothelioma, or asbestos cancer. We do not even count lung cancer as a result of asbestos, because lung cancer can have multiple causes. What I am trying to say is that, despite the 1993 ban, asbestos is still the assassin of our society. For comparison, traffic demands 500 to 600 lives a year. We invest a lot to reduce that number. Absolutely right, of course. We're gonna have to keep doing that. It is all the more important that we in the Chamber take the asbestos dossier as seriously as we do and that we quickly adopt concrete measures to become asbestos-free as a country. The ban on asbestos roofs is a major and important step towards becoming asbestos-free, but at the same time it is also a huge challenge. The ban on asbestos roofs is not going to release us from asbestos. Asbestos was recently found in jet grit made by Eurogrit in Dordrecht. 600 companies across the country used asbestos-containing products from this company. Asbestos was also found in Claire's make-up, which is mainly used by children, and can be imported with apps like Wish and AliExpress, without any enforcement and supervision. It is good that we have two further plenary debates on asbestos after this legislative process, because I think there is enough to discuss. Mr. Chairman. Back to the ban on asbestos roofs, because there is still a great deal to be said about this too. Today, I would like to highlight a number of key points that are important in achieving that deadline of 1 January 2024. I hope to get clear answers from these rulers. These points are: the financial side of the restructuring exercise, the possibilities of linking asbestos restructuring to sustainability, inventory of an asbestos disaster and inventory of the overall task, the enforcement of safe working conditions and enforcement after 1 January 2024, once the ban has entered into force. Finally, I will mention a number of specific points. I will conclude with that. Mr. Chairman. I want to start with the finances to get this huge task done. As far as we're concerned, they're failing at the moment. The 75 million-dollar subsidy pot is almost gone before the law has formally entered into force. That while we still have nearly 100 million m of asbestos roofs to clean up. Of course, this will not work without additional financial contributions from the government. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that, as a government, we should continue to look for ways to contribute to this task, which we must do together with provinces, municipalities and the sector? How far is it in its search for additional financial resources? So far, the budget for the existing scheme has been increased several times. So it's understood that it's not enough. But it's not being structurally solved. Why not? Raising the nap is nice for the people who can make use of it at the time, but it is not the structural solution we need. In the survey that we have received with information from different provinces, we see that they are busy making the financial provision of asbestos remodelling possible. There are, of course, large differences between the municipalities and the provinces, both in the number of square meters and in the budget released. But far from everywhere, people can claim a local arrangement. How do we prevent an owner with an asbestos roof in province x from being supported and another in municipality or province y is not? We shouldn't want that randomness, should we? The Secretary of State says she wants to support regional initiatives nationally. How is she going to do this? can it ensure a national uniform subsidy measure inspired by regional schemes? There are also plenty of private property owners who cannot afford to clean up their asbestos roof in conjunction with the construction of a new roof and who cannot get funding either. Also, removing an asbestos roof from a home is more labour-intensive than removing the roof from a detached shed. Does the Secretary of State have enough eye for this? The subsidy amount of €4.50 per m is totally insufficient to drive asbestos clean-up and is totally inadequate if there is to be a new roof on it. In Deventer, for example, fifteen owners with asbestos-containing slates on their roof received an offer of €400,000 for cleaning and for a new roof. They can't afford this. How's the Secretary of State gonna fix this? For example, is it thinking of a national financial regulation, such as in Limburg, whereby asbestos rehabilitation is linked to the sustainability of housing? Then the inventory. I will do that in two: the inventory when an asbestos disaster occurs and then the inventory of the total task that we have ahead of us. In January 2015, a company collection building was completely burned out in Wateringen. The municipality then declared the district asbestos-free without a complete asbestos inventory. But we can't do that by the rules we have. To my written questions on this disaster, I think the Secretary of State is evasive. She is not prepared to investigate this further. Explaining an asbestos-free neighborhood without full inventory is impossible and extremely risky. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this should not happen and is she prepared to talk to the municipality of Wateringen about the disaster and encourage them to take steps to make a complete inventory of the district? Then the total inventory for the task ahead. There is no national overview of where all the asbestos roofs are located. We have been sent the inventory of the provinces, but it is largely based on rough estimates. These estimates are not always in line with previous estimates either. That is the case with the provinces that have really started working on it. Of the other provinces there is little or no picture at all. For the moment, therefore, there is no clear national overview. Is that going to be in the run-up to 2024 and if so, when? How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that even those provinces that do not have an overview now get to work on this quickly? Now I'm gonna go check on the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. Companies that do this clean-up are also extremely important. We can conclude that there is currently a shortage of cleaners, including by attracting the economy and moving back to the construction sector. If we want to achieve 1 January 2024, we have to provide sufficient and certified cleaners. The shortage of cleaners also causes cowboys in this sector and makes cleaning more expensive than necessary. How are we going to ensure sufficient certified cleaners? Does the Secretary of State have any ideas about this and is she talking to the sector about it? How are we going to make sure that there are no more cowboys on the market when we go towards 2024 and need more cleaners? How has enforcement been regulated by the SZW Inspection and is this specific point a priority? For us this is an important point, also because the Secretary of State has temporarily allowed work boxes on cranes to be allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u4	Before I give Mr Van Aalst the floor, I forgot to tell you that I think it makes more sense for us to allow two interruptions per person in the first period. So two interruptions in two, Mr. Van Aalst. Maybe you should think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u5	Well, I'm gonna do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u6	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, I hear my colleague from the SP say that there is a shortage of repairers. The prices are moving up. That's what we're seeing. We have received a letter from the Secretary of State about the hoists and that it is difficult, because such a hoist can't be used in all cases. Then there must also be a choice for expensive telehandlers. I know my colleague from the SP. He often doesn't want to do things that are obsessive. But if, as in this case, it can contribute to a faster clean-up, to keep 2024 in mind, do we find the SP on our side?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u8	Apart from what the SP thinks of this, I think the Secretary of State has already allowed it. I was not in favour of this at the time, because my colleague, Mr Van Aalst, knows that we find it difficult to relax working conditions, especially when people are hanging over a roof and their safety is as important to us as asbestos restructuring itself. So in that trade-off, I find it a risk when it comes to wiggling and weighing. If we allow it, we must maintain it properly and I hope that there will be no problems with this temporary exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u9	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u10	In addition to enforcement: once the ban has entered into, in 2024, the municipality must monitor and maintain. An extra task that needs extra capacity. How are the municipalities in this and can they provide for this additional capacity? Does the Secretary of State have talks with the VNG to deal with this already, so that we don't go after the facts later? I think that asbestos rehabilitation must be done carefully and professionally, and we will soon agree on that. Therefore, the SP does not understand that surfaces less than 35 m can be repaired by anyone at random. Asbestos is life-threatening; one fibre can eventually become fatal. The question to the Secretary of State is therefore: do we think asbestos is dangerous, yes or no? And what makes a surface smaller than 35 m less dangerous, especially if the cleaning is not done carefully? Do we also know what individuals who clean small surfaces themselves do with the waste? Is it being processed safely and according to the rules? Are there any signals about that? Finally, Mr. Chairman, I'm going back to the Secretary of State for SZW. In response to my motion to give full compensation to asbestos victims, rather than merely a compensation, so that they do not have to suffer legal suffering in addition to medical suffering, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs says that they do not consider this to be in line with the principle that employers are responsible for the compensation of workers. A response of two paragraphs, after 13 months of waiting. From the deadline and this answer, I can conclude that this Secretary of State has no sense of what a legal struggle with a family is doing in that situation. My request was therefore to pay full compensation under the TAS scheme and to recover that money as a government itself from employers, who always remain ultimately responsible. We agree that they are therefore responsible, but by extending the TAS regime we can greatly help the victims and their families. Can the Secretary of State respond to this? Can she share with us what possibilities it sees for this? Then, together, we can tackle the employers who have caused this, without pushing the families of victims, who are already suffering from medical problems, into legal agony. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Ziengs of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the proposal for a directive on the disposal of asbestos and products containing asbestos. It seemed such a wonderful product for construction, but also for many other applications. So you see again that such a blessing can eventually turn into pure misery, pure misery for the victims of asbestos. The Netherlands is 'happy' and I say 'happy' at the forefront in Europe when it comes to the problem of asbestos. It really is a dilemma, because there is no mockery of health. However, we must pay attention to the hundreds of thousands of owners of homes and companies in which this product is incorporated. After all, they are going to pay the bill for the implementation of this law; we need to realize that with each other. I would therefore like to talk to the Secretary of State about the pace of this operation, its feasibility in terms of time and the so-called troublesome cases. Let me start with the tempo. The ambition is high. The amounts of asbestos removed are actually increasing. So the acceleration calendar we set seems to be working. We see that several provinces have their figures in order with regard to the question. But a number of provinces really stand out when it comes to thinking about achieving a sustainability goal. I am thinking, for example, of Limburg, followed by Flevoland, which will place solar panels on roofs. With this they also make a profit model for the companies. My first question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether she has an idea when the remaining provinces are able to provide their figures and present their plans in concrete terms. I'd like to hear this from the Secretary of State. I would even ask the Secretary of State to send a letter to the Chamber so that she can try to inform us in detail. My second question is whether the best practices known to the Chamber are now also widely measured by the asbestos ambassadors of the provinces. That would be nice, because there are a lot of good examples and it would be good if they were shared. I'll come back to speed. In the Chamber but also in the media, we talk about a ban every time as of 1 January 2024. However, in the letter from SZW on the use of work boxes, I read that the aim of the cabinet is to have all the asbestos roofs cleaned up by 2024. That is why the question to both State Secretarys: could the date be 31-12-2024? Because we want to achieve this in 2024, and I do not really see any date of 1 January, with the exception of the media, either in the explanatory statement. I am considering tabling a motion on this point, supported by Mr von Martels of the CDA. So I would like a response to this question. That brings me to the feasibility of the stated ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u13	Before proceeding, Mr Laçin has a question. Isn't it? Indeed, you have two interruptions, Mr Laçin, each of which is allowed in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mr Laçin is well aware of this. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u15	Then Mrs Kröger will gladly take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u16	That's what I was afraid of. Mrs. Kröger. Oh, now I'm telling you, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u17	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u18	The chairman would normally say "Mrs Kröger" to give you the floor. But I kind of did now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u19	Okay. Mr President, I am glad that Mr Ziengs has just given me the floor. Did I hear Mr Ziegs say that the ban on asbestos roofs is now suddenly being proposed for a year, or rather for a delay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u20	I think I'm giving more clarity about the law. Because the law doesn't specifically state that date of January 1st. So apparently it's been magical somewhere. The aim of the cabinet is to have asbestos-free roofs in 2024. And 2024 in my opinion lasts until 31 December 2024. If the honourable Member wishes to explain this as an extension, I simply see it as a translation of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u21	Given that this has been going on for so long, and given that there is an incredible urgency, because it is a very dangerous situation, is it incredibly important to send out a very clear signal to everyone and to mark the 1 January when asbestos roofs are banned?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u22	Also a signal of December 31, 2024 is a clear signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u23	Now Mr Laçin has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u24	I can't control myself, Mr. Chairman. I went to work with Mr Ziengs. We went to Goor together, we went to Berkelland together. There too, the local directors and the province indicated: hold that January 1, 2024, because that way we keep pressure on the boiler, we have clarity and make sure that people get to work. So I don't really understand why the VVD, with an enlightening explanation of the law, wants to get a year's delay. That does not help our task. Why don't we just hang on to January 1st, 2024 together and not just get to work hard to make that date possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u25	I simply stick to the statements that have always been made and which are also endorsed by the Cabinet in order to have the objective that the buildings are asbestos-free by 2024. The year 2024 lasts until 31 December 2024. I just gave you that explanation. We have always said in the work visits that we should not interfere with the dates proposed. Well, the date of January 1st has not been proposed. The law says we want to get this done by 2024. It could also have been 1 September 2024, but given the enormous challenge and scarcity on the market, as Mr Laçin himself has pointed out, it might be better to look up the space that is still there in the law, without directly achieving an enlargement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u26	Mr Ziengs uses a lot of words. It may not be in there, but we've always talked about January 1st, 2024. The rulers may be able to confirm this themselves, or not. I leave that to them. I would like to invite Mr Ziengs once again to stick with us on 1 January 2024, because that is 2024, so that we keep that pressure on it and not get another year's delay. Because that is not what we want, not what people want, not what the sector wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u27	I think I've been clear and clear in my input. At least I mentioned this date. I will table a motion on this subject with Mr von Martels if there is no commitment in this case. This brings me to the feasibility of the stated ambition. The pressure must indeed remain on the boiler, as it is said, but by creating that space within the law by taking the year 2024 with us to achieve the ultimate goal of giving some air to an overstretched market. That is, in fact, a follow-up to the reply to the interruptions. The signals my group is getting on the price drive, the scarcity of well-trained staff and the scarcity of available material are considerable. Fortunately, we have seen the example of the trays and we have also seen how Secretary of State Van Ark has searched and found space in this area. I think it's good to see how you handle that. She also refers to the possibilities created by innovation in the material and other machines that may be able to get that range. That is a good development. Luckily, they're not standing still. That is why we need a moment of calibration. To keep a close eye on the situation, you're gonna have to set a date somewhere. Through the von Martels/Ziengs amendment, we are actually recording that moment. I hope for support for that. And then there is also the time to get a good picture of the so-called 'bad cases'. I would like to mention, among other things, the problems surrounding the slate roofs. That is not the case. In order not to frustrate the timeframe, I don't want to make exceptions. When is there a logical time to look at that with a sense of purpose? I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. I mentioned all the scarcity in the labour market. We have seen that the demands are changing. In the past the windows had to be removed below the toughest requirements, but now it can be easier. It remains safe and it is indeed considerably cheaper. Safety must always be at the forefront. I've mentioned that before. However, I would ask the Secretary of State to look closely at the requirements of certification. Moreover, there will soon be a debate on this subject, as I have seen on the agenda. Mr Thierry Aartsen, who is accompanying me in this debate today, will then zoom in on that. However, I would like to take an advance on that. You can see that you have professional roofing companies in the market, but also other companies, and they can use their people, if trained and well equipped, to remove those old plates. This can apply to all kinds of companies, which means that you have to take the lead in a simple but safe way, and that is what the Secretary of State says also offers other opportunities for doing so. I have a motion in preparation, together with the colleague of the SGP, to support it. Finally, I would like to mention the opportunities offered by this whole process. Let me mention once again the option of these wonderful possibilities in Limburg, with solar panels on the rooftops. This could, of course, be the case everywhere: a sustainability goal that is then also good for the environment. That should appeal to the Secretary of State. Then, of course, we also mentioned the problem of resources. Mr Laçin has already mentioned this. Perhaps there is a possibility that there will be a so-called'revolver fund' for the people in the public gallery. This is a fund in which the money eventually comes back because it is a loan with, for example, a low percentage. Could such a fund be set up, for example, funded by insurers? They have an interest in it, too. The moment something really burns up, they have much higher costs, so the sooner they get that shit off the roof, the better. Think of pension funds and guarantees that can be done. What possibilities are there and what possibilities can be added? That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. Next, I appeal to the Secretary of State to use all the knowledge and skills to help the huge group of homeowners who we are standing up for here, and to help entrepreneurs to accomplish this task. The objective of the asbestos-free roofs in 2024 stands like a house. Let us make sure that the houses are actually there without asbestos and without caring for the inhabitants. Because that is the responsibility of the government and that is our responsibility. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u28	Thank you. I call Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mr. Chairman. In 1931, asbestos cancer was recognised as an occupational disease in England. And now, almost 100 years later, we finally get a ban on asbestos roofs. That is a step that GroenLinks believes is very necessary. It is a step towards a living environment without carcinogenic substances. That is why the clarity that this law is about to give is crucial. And I also hope that today the Secretary of State will make it clear that there will not be another year of change. But the asbestos doesn't disappear on its own. It doesn't even disappear by adopting this law now. I think we all agree on that. The asbestos only disappears by actually cleaning it up. GroenLinks is therefore very much in favour of this law, but I am very concerned about the implementation and practice of local authorities, asbestos roof owners and the asbestos removal sector. And I'm also worried about where we're gonna leave all that stuff. The deadline for this reorganisation operation is now very ambitious, while of course it is something that has been in the pipeline for a very long time. This ambitious period is important, because the increasing risks associated with the weathering of old roofs make cleaning an even more urgent task. Waiting longer just means more risk. GroenLinks is only afraid that we haven't finished all the preparations to actually do it. I will combine my concerns into three groups, namely the role of the government, the problems of the owners of the buildings or homes to be renovated and, finally, the processing of asbestos. The Chamber has had to make some effort to find out for itself how great the task really is at the moment. And of course, it's kind of weird that we're making a law to solve a problem without really understanding how big the problem is. We still don't know. It's about 120,000,000 m. Of seven provinces we now have a better picture, but that picture is not quite complete. Then how will the Secretary of State keep track of how far we are with the clean-up call? I really want the commitment that there will be a much tighter direction than we have had so far. This is too big for us to leave to individuals and local authorities. We need to have a proper and comprehensive overview of all major clean-up tasks. I would very much like a detailed plan from the Secretary of State, which she draws up in cooperation with the provinces. That plan should include a kind of "asbestos accounting" that is conclusive. How much do we have? How much do we take a year? And how much is left? This should be taken into account every year, linked to the disposal and processing capacity, with an understanding of bottlenecks, but also with acceleration opportunities. We have to be on top of this, otherwise it won't happen. Will the Secretary of State agree to this? So we also need to link the removal statement to the removal and processing capacity. My two colleagues have already mentioned this. A major issue is, of course, whether there are sufficient certified asbestos removers to accomplish this great task. At present, too limited capacity seems to lead to ever higher prices. A grant of €4.50 per m is currently available for a short time, but market prices are much higher and are also rising rapidly, while demand is growing dramatically as a result of this law. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we need to solve this on two sides at once. We must look carefully at whether there are cheaper and simpler methods of asbestos removal, which must of course ensure the safety of the removers and the environment. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs has indicated that he will come forward with proposals for this. We're going to have another debate on that. A colleague of mine will do that. I am concerned about the fact that there is now actually a decision that up to those 45 m2 people can break down their own roof. I would like to understand why the health risk here is so much lower. Isn't the risk greater when people work themselves in their backyard with their shed? However, we also need to do more on the funding side. We still have a budget, I understand, for 7.5 million m, with a figure of 120 million m. That subsidy also runs well before the ban enters into force. Does the Secretary of State see this as a problem, too? Is it prepared to commit itself to next year's budget for more money for asbestos rehabilitation? The Secretary of State is optimistic, that tone is clear from her letters, but are we not seriously at risk of subsidising the low-hanging fruit, and precisely the more difficult cases remain on the shelf until just before that deadline of 1 January? Should we not look much more closely at the different groups that are now facing the ban on asbestos, the difference between business premises and housing, detached houses or apartments of people who are socio-economically vulnerable and, for example, have bought their social housing from a housing corporation? Can the Secretary of State ensure that more attention is paid to the vulnerable groups for whom this asbestos restructuring really is not a real task? For those who cannot finance the restructuring through the bank, because their mortgage is under water or banks do not want to finance it for other reasons, a solution really needs to be found. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look at this for a follow-up to the grant? I also have the question of whether the Secretary of State is prepared to talk to banks, for example, my colleague Ziengs also mentioned a number of other possibilities to see if a simple and advantageous package can be made that helps owners finance their reorganisation. Surely it is also in the interest of a mortgage lending bank that these premises will not become unsellable or fall sharply in value? Is a revolver fund an option? What are the possibilities for this? Here, I'd like to direct the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State refers in several letters rather optimisticly to various cooperation programmes, care programs and local authorities that make plans together with owners. I am glad to hear that the problem is being picked up here and there. But once again, all these initiatives are not a cover plan. Is there an overview of municipalities that are active and municipalities that do nothing yet? How are the latter really encouraged? The Secretary of State says he wants to explore how different regional funds can be supported nationally. That seems very important to me. We would very much like to hear more about this in the short term. Last year, I asked your predecessor whether we could not combine the restructuring exercise with the sustainability exercise. A new roof should also be insulated according to modern standards. And if we're still on the roof, why not just put those solar panels on it? Here too, a common approach and joint procurement could be beneficial and agreements with banks could help, but subsidies and other incentives for sustainability could also be combined. I understand that the programme bureau thinks it is a good idea, but what is going to happen now? Is there room here for a rural arrangement, like before with Asbestos off, sun on it? Can the Secretary of State discuss with the Minister of State on how to combine asbestos rehabilitation with the sustainability of the built environment? Finally, I come to the problem which, if asbestos is safely removed from the roof, we will do with it. Because this is actually only the first half of the problem. The processing capacity is hugely inadequate. We pack our asbestos now in plastic, store it or dump it, hoping it won't leak and that we'll never see it again. While we've agreed earlier that we don't want any of that anymore. There are several techniques to safely process and defuse asbestos, but its capacity is much less than we need. How do we fix this? And from a secretary of state who's pressured on circular economy, I hope she really has a plan for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u30	I am waiting for Mrs Kröger to come to the end of her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u31	Not by a long shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u32	That is not quite the case, I see. Nevertheless, I would like to ask Mrs Kröger how she is getting on with her sense of reality. After all, Mrs Kröger makes a very strong point: 1-1-2024 should not be called into question. She mentions areas of 120 million m, and we know that last year 11 million m has been sanitized. How do you think you're gonna do all that within the five years you've got left?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u33	This is exactly the question I'm asking the Secretary of State. That date of 1 January has been set for a long time. The ban on asbestos is not new. The fact that this law is now being dealt with five years before the date of importation means that we have a short period of time. So it really needs to speed up, it needs ambition behind it, it needs direction behind it, and a plan of action. So I'd really like to hear from the Secretary of State what the plans are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u34	I also heard Mrs Kröger say that the 35 m that private individuals are allowed to remove themselves - you mentioned 45 mph - should also be called into question as far as you are concerned. So as well as the fact that we still have so much to do and the fact that you are also going to take away the opportunity to do it yourself, make it very difficult. That is why my question is: how realistic are the ambitions you have just expressed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u35	The ambitions I expressed are the ambitions of this cabinet. This law of the Secretary of State is before us, and I do want those ambitions that are expressed to follow the commitment of the Secretary of State and budgets. On how many square meters private individuals are allowed to clean up themselves and what the risks are: I am concerned because on the one hand we have the situation that we impose very strict requirements on professional processors because asbestos is an incredibly dangerous substance. On the other hand, there is the question of whether individuals have enough information: how does that happen, do we not take too much health risk? So I'd like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u36	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u37	The risk of illegal dumping of asbestos waste is also imminent. On the one hand, the Secretary of State states in her replies that she has no indication that more asbestos waste is being dumped. But in the explanatory memorandum to the law, it is indeed identified as a problem. And that's also what State Forestry sees. There is already an increase in their nature reserves. In 2015, there were 13 asbestos dumpings, in 2016 20, in 2017 32 and now, mid 2018, already 15. This is pre-summer information. The day before yesterday, a lot of asbestos-polluted construction waste was found in Enschede. Can the Secretary of State promise that as asbestos is being improved, the monitoring of illegal dumping will also be stepped up? We would like to receive an annual report on how many cases of asbestos dump have been registered nationally. And who are the costs of cleaning up asbestos dumped in nature? Surely that will not be the case with State Forestry and other nature managers, who of course need that money for a lot of other things? I'd like the Secretary of State's attention to this problem. I would like to conclude with the call of the VNG to municipalities to allow small quantities for private individuals to be offered to the municipality at no cost. We have the regulations to remove asbestos ourselves and we have the national asbestos tracking system for the larger roofs. The possibility of offering it free of charge is very useful if we are to prevent those small, unregistered quantities from going wrong. Is the Secretary of State prepared to meet with local authorities? Finally. GroenLinks very much wants asbestos to disappear from our environment. We still have hundreds of asbestos deaths a year, and it's gonna be decades before this whole thing stops. Those roofs become more dangerous as they weather, so there is no reason to delay, quite the contrary. This law is a step, not a solution and certainly not a closure. But without this incredibly important step, we will not be able to move forward, but we will have to organise it properly and much more is needed for that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u38	Thank you. I call Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u39	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about an important law, about the amendment of the Environmental Management Act. This is indeed about the asbestos roofs and the ban on them as of 1 January 2024, as I understood from the explanatory memorandum. We still need an AMvB to take care of that. Asbestos is an assassin, it has already been said by several speakers. Hundreds of people still die every year from the effects of inhaling asbestos fibres, sometimes even in a distant past. Unfortunately, we will still see that in the years to come. That is why it is a good decision that we are not taking today, but we are making it. The Labour Party is also pleased with this law, with the ban on asbestos roofs. Because the safety of the people in the Netherlands, the health of the people, always comes first, of course. In that sense, therefore, all support for the introduction of this law. But, Mr President, here in The Hague, we sometimes adopt laws where we then think: how the hell are we going to do that? Excuse me, Mr. Stoffer, for that word. That's a word I was allowed to use, I understand; fortunately. But that is the question raised by our group. How are we going to do this, because the task is still enormous and the time is quite short. The question to the Cabinet, to the Secretary of State, is therefore: where is the plan of action? Don't get me wrong. Provinces are busy, municipalities are busy and you see all kinds of initiatives emerging, but given the real challenge there is still a lot to be done. At the same time, we see that the subsidy that should help to remove asbestos is likely to run out by 2019. How's the Secretary of State gonna handle this? Is she prepared to look at new subsidies, to look at room for them in the next budget, precisely because we are now facing a group that is likely to face higher disposal costs due to a shortage of cleaners? It has quite financial consequences if you have to remove such an asbestos roof, are there perhaps other possibilities, such as interest-free loans? We have seen several initiatives from municipalities and provinces, but is the Secretary of State prepared to look at them as well? Also an important question: do all homeowners know if they have an asbestos roof or not? This is a question from the Association Eigen Huis, and I think that is a very relevant question. Maybe you won't find out until 2022 and as a homeowner you really have a big problem. And how do we deal with the people with a small income? We see that prices are rising, we see that the subsidy is drained. How are we going to financially support these people so that they do not face a major financial problem by bringing the ban closer? Mr President, security is also a very important issue. Fortunately, we are subjecting sanitors to all kinds of safety requirements and certificates, but still see the letter from the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, which we are about to discuss a little more extensively, about the whole asbestos system, which is 25% does not meet the enforcement requirement. How's the Secretary of State gonna handle this? We see that there has been a huge increase since 2012, to about 24% now, but we still have a way to go. At the same time, we have a shortage of sanitators. How are we going to attract new people without compromising security? Mr President, then there is the supervision. We are going to talk a little more about this in the next debate on the asbestos system, but it is still relevant. I've been looking into the monitoring of the asbestos repair workers. There you see a crazy world in which the market players themselves control and where innovative parties from outside indicate: we simply do not get in, while we may have safe methods that are much cheaper, especially for some smaller asbestos removals. When they are safely added to the market of sanitors, a win-win situation could arise. Homeowners can then remove asbestos in a cheaper way. At the same time, we can prevent a shortage of sanitators. How does the Secretary of State see that? Finally, Mr President. A few times have already been mentioned are the opportunities we have with this huge operation. The main question to the Cabinet and to the Secretary of State is how we achieve this task in a good, affordable and safe way. How are we going to combine this huge challenge with the huge opportunities we have when we talk about the sustainability challenge we are talking about at the same time? We are seeing a number of fine initiatives in the country; Mr Ziengs has referred to this. How can we also take this kind of initiative from the national government, which takes action both on asbestos removal and at the same time achieve the sustainable task of the house? Saves homeowners the cost. At the same time, we do something good for both worlds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u40	Thank you. I call Mr von Martels of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The subject we are discussing today hangs like a sword of Damocles over the heads and roofs of those who are concerned. Above all, there is a need for clarity, because there are still a lot of questions about many aspects. For the record, it is relevant to see how it has all come to this. It is the government itself that comes up with the ban that will stop a legal situation, namely having a roof in which asbestos is present. The Council of State also points out how exceptional it is to ban an existing situation. This means that the government has a great responsibility to support residents and businesses. It was Secretary of State Atsma who decided in 2012 that we should get rid of the asbestos roofs in order to avoid potential risks to public health. In doing so, the then State Secretary gave three paths for which the government had to commit itself, namely raising awareness among both the roof owners and the provincial and local authorities, developing a smart, efficient and effective approach and, thirdly, solving the financing problem for part of the owners. We've been six years. The ban should enter into force in more than five years' time. There's still about 100 million m of roof to clean. We know that in 2017 11 million m has been repaired. You really don't have to be a math wonder to realize that at this rate it's not gonna work out to have everything cleaned up by January 1st, 2024. Is it possible to use the entire 2024 for the restoration, I ask the Secretary of State. This is in line with the questions that Mr Ziengs has already asked. Can the Secretary of State undertake to do this? In addition, the roofs that still have to be renovated are probably smaller and more difficult to clean. Another problem is that people who really can't afford to stay with their rooftops. Moreover, there is the threat that these roofs may become uninsurable. Then there is also the concern that there is too little capacity and that the rules are unnecessarily obstructive in some respects. We also hear that there are residents who are totally unaware of these forthcoming rules and whether or not they have asbestos roofs. In short, the government has so far not sufficiently experienced the three mentioned paths of awareness, more efficient approach and stimulation to realize the desire of an asbestos roof-free Netherlands in 2024. In order to put the pressure on the government to do more about this, I, together with Mr Ziengs, submit an amendment to the proposal to carry out an evaluation before 1-1-2022, so that we can see whether the Empire has taken up its responsibilities and has been actively supported by the reform. Then we can also see whether the date of introduction can still be regarded as realistic. I would like to hear the response of the Secretary of State to the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u42	I've seen the amendment. That's actually an evaluation. That always seems sensible to me in this kind of difficult and big task, but isn't it a little premature to put forward a motion now to postpone the date on which it really has to be done for a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u43	This amendment, which is what we are talking about here, focuses on an evaluation in 2022. Mr Ziengs spoke about the motion. The intention is indeed to use 2024 throughout the year. That's certainly not premature. I've already outlined what's ahead of us. I think that we can still make good use of that year, that full year, to at least meet the desire to achieve it all if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u44	I will not dispute that the task is enormous, but I cannot look into the future. It seems complicated to me to put it this way right now. Whether it's six or seven years, it's still a huge task. So what's that extra year based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u45	This extra year is mainly based on the figures of the provinces, which we have just received. Before those figures came, I still assumed that we had about 80 million to 90 million to go, but then that assessment of the provinces showed that things are going to be much harder and much more complex and that the area of 100 million m can be even more challenging than I originally suspected. These figures are not simply taken out of the sky.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u46	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now I would like to comment on what is expected of the government in respect of the three paths, first of all consciousness. According to the Vereniging Eigen Huis, not all the owners of buildings with an asbestos roof realise that their building has an asbestos roof. How did the State Secretary inform households and companies about its intention to ban it? And how do households and businesses know if they have an asbestos roof, how do they clean it up and where they can ask questions? With my plea for an efficient approach to asbestos remodelling, I now come more to the area of the Secretary of State for Social Security. In fact, the CDA is pleased that this Secretary of State seems to be working on this after years of asking for options for reducing the cost of asbestos remodelling. With the time schedule in her letter and the execution of the Bishop/Von Martels/Dijkstra motion, I finally see a movement in the right direction. Hopefully the use of the crane with open workbox can start on 1-1-2019 and not, as is currently proposed, in mid-2019, especially given the fact that this request was made last year. I'd like to urge the Secretary of State to keep her up here. See first, then believe. I would like to be kept informed of the progress made. Therefore, the request to the Secretary of State to inform the Chamber every spring and autumn about the implementation of the Action Lines, the Improvement Approach and the results obtained. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the stimulation. The provinces estimate that at least 5% of the property owners have insufficient capacity to clean up the existing asbestos roofs. This is also a major problem for farmers. Even with a subsidy, it is not yet feasible for this group to finance the necessary reorganisation. We can't let these people down with the problem. The CDA asks whether there will be a fund for these households and companies that can no longer borrow, so that they can still carry out the asbestos restructuring with a cheaper loan. The Council of State has also called for this. Are you in consultation with SVn, the People's Housing Fund, I ask the Secretary of State. If that is not the case, are you prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. The CDA is deeply concerned that the grant budget for the coming years is insufficient, especially now that the Secretary of State has brought forward budgeted expenditure in the future. How does the Secretary of State look at this and what budget is there for the grant scheme in the coming years? Is that realistic for the great task that remains? The question is also how best to encourage individuals to clean up their asbestos roof. What incentives can we offer them? A widely mentioned proposal is to provide a VAT advantage for individuals who have their asbestos roof cleaned. What's the Secretary of State's position on this? In addition, the Secretary of State is probably familiar with the high cost of clean-up of asbestos-containing slates. They are much higher than those for other types of asbestos roofs, but no higher subsidy is given for this. I have seen in Deventer myself what specific problems owners face with slate roofs. From a financial point of view, up to €250 per m is no longer reasonable and equitable. Mr. Chairman. In addition, asbestos restructuring must be seen in conjunction with the sustainability statement and the problem of agricultural emptying. The replacement of roofs can very well be accompanied by the installation of solar panels. If this link is also made in the programmatic approach, I ask the Secretary of State. Then there is the problem of agricultural construction with asbestos roofs, where not only the roof has to be renovated, but the building should be completely demolished. We are often talking about empty agricultural buildings. My colleague Jaco Geurts has also mentioned this in previous sessions. In fact, more solutions should be considered, such as a different destination, demolition gauges, space space, or otherwise. How does the Secretary of State view this? Is this also a link in the programmatic approach? Finally, I would like to ask how we can reduce the landfill costs of asbestos as waste taxes are increased. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u48	Thank you. Mr Laçin has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u49	I certainly have a question, because I am somewhat surprised by the input of the CDA. We forbid anything that was legal, that's what the CDA said. We are talking about asbestos, we are talking about a substance that demands 500 to 1,000 lives a year. On the contrary, the public authorities must do it more often: we must ban things which are legal but which prove to be carcinogenic. That is what we have done with different chemicals. This is a good step, but I only miss the ambition at the CDA when it comes to the ban on asbestos roofs. We want to take a year longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u50	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u51	We want to take a year longer. It's only 11 million this year. Shouldn't we show the commitment together that we're not going to clean up 11, but 21 or 31 million in 2018 and not to stretch and delay everything? I know the CDA as a party that wants to move fast, but you're actually proving the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u52	It would be a shame if I didn't want to show ambition. That ambition is indeed there, but we must be realistic. For that I mentioned the numbers I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u53	Mr Laçin, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u54	To be realistic also means that we are now going to look together at what role the government should take in this and that we should not postpone it. I really want to invite Mr von Martels not to play with data, which he does when it comes to the work boxes. Then we want to move forward, but the roofs, for example, are pushed backwards. Show that ambition. Think with us about how we can make it possible and do not go ahead with the 2024, because we are not helping anyone with that. Not even the drivers, your drivers in the county.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u55	I can give the same answer as Mr Ziengs has given. Those 2024: I think we will need very much that year to meet the challenges. That has nothing to do with compromising our ambitions. We did, and I tried to invite the Secretary of State to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u56	I have a question for my colleague from the CDA. Now there is 35 m free to clean up as a private person. As far as PVV is concerned, asbestos is asbestos. It is a danger to public health. So we'd rather not see it at all. Now I know from Mr von Martels that he may want to extend this to, for example, 100 m for individuals. Does he agree with me that asbestos is asbestos? Dangerous is dangerous. Does he agree that it shouldn't be at all anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u57	It depends. We all know that there are major public health risks when working asbestos, but where appropriate, the measures taken are often disproportionate to the risks involved. In that sense, I find that 35 m debatable. This could also be increased if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u58	I'm not an asbestos fibre expert, so I wouldn't risk it. I can't judge if it's dangerous at 35 m or 100 m. I don't think Mr. Von Martels should want that either. It is not always the case that fibres are released during processing, but also in weathered roofs. Mr. von Martels must agree with me that we should not take any risks by exposing people to asbestos fibres, even at 35 m?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u59	No, but these 35 m measures were taken on a realistic basis. This has also been preceded by research. I didn't mention those 35 m's at all. I have just said that I am curious to hear the answer to the question raised by a colleague at an earlier stage where the border lies. Is that 35 m answerable, yes? This could be called into question if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u60	For the sake of clarity, the reason I asked that question was to tighten things up. We are concerned that, precisely by not removing asbestos in a professional way, people are much more likely to be exposed to it. In my view, that is the essence of this issue. However, I would like to say a few words about the deadline for the adoption of the law. On the one hand, I hear Mr von Martels say indignantly: it has been forbidden for some time and now that law is finally in place; we need to speed up and show ambition. To the other he says: we give another year's delay. What kind of signal does the CDA send with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u61	The signal that I have already tried to put forward in the debate we have just had, namely: how realistic is it all? I still say that we must keep the ambition in mind, but we must be realistic. If you testify to realism, you must also confess that it is almost impossible to do it, with all the limiting factors that exist, in order to manage that ambition of 100 million m in a few years. And when it comes to that one year, what exactly are we talking about? It's not like I'm moving it forward to 2030. I'm just talking about making use of the year 2024. We need that extra year to meet the challenges. Otherwise, you will present a picture of things that are ambitious, but not realistic, and I would like to stay far from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u62	The realism that Mr Von Martels advocates must be that as a cabinet, as a government, you have a sufficient and good subsidy scheme, that you take control and that you have the overview where the Netherlands plays it all, so that we as a Chamber should not go after that information ourselves. That would be realism. And that is exactly what the CDA can do in the cabinet rather than say: we're going to slide over that year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u63	You have, I think, listened carefully to my speech. I also asked what incentive arrangement is still possible to achieve at least the ambition we both have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u64	Thank you to Mr von Martels. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u65	Thank you, Mr President. What am I supposed to say to the pig farmer who knocks on our door with his hands in the hair? He has hardly made any money in recent years and in the meantime the government has come up with all kinds of new demands for ammonia emissions, smell and particulate matter, for fire safety and now with the obligation to clean up asbestos roofs. It's killing the pig farmer and his family. What am I gonna tell that pig farmer? Do I have to say, the cabinet looks away, shrugs its shoulders and says, "Find it out, and if you don't, pull the plug"? I don't want to accept that, and I don't believe the cabinet wants that either. This is, in a nutshell, the problem we face under this law. It is very good, as many have said, that there will be a deadline for the removal of asbestos in relation to the risks to public health, but I fear that too much action will lead to wild-west conditions. That one stroke of pens in the study next to the Hague Central Station means a lot in practice. Provinces expect that around 5% to 10% of the owners have insufficient capacity to finance the reorganisation. This is particularly true for agricultural entrepreneurs. For example, Drenthe estimates that about 30% of the farmers can't afford it. It is precisely agricultural holdings that have the majority of the asbestos roof area on the yard. And they are dealing with much more regulation from The Hague. Is there sufficient capacity to properly remove all asbestos roofs before 2024? It is a battle with time; many have just indicated that. There's at least 80 million m if it's not there anymore. Several provinces and municipalities have hardly looked at the number of asbestos roofs on their territory. We've only got five years left. It seems long, but it'll be over soon. Even if you go through the expected 14 million m this year, we won't be finished by 2023. It's a fight with the construction industry for personnel. The certification and training requirements have become so strict that people change their mind ten times before entering this business. It is rather the other way around: since the beginning of 2017, 20% of asbestos repairers have left. If that continues, we won't have any asbestos repairers who can do the job in 2024. It is also a fight with the regulations, because innovations only get a small amount of space. We do not see at the moment a firm, fast, facilitating approach of the Empire, which was also highlighted and called for from GroenLinks. The grant pool is almost empty and we cannot find the commitment in 2017 that there will be a package of national financial arrangements in the 2019 budget. And the waste tax is also increasing, especially for asbestos. An important step for more clean-up capacity is the introduction of a separate roof certificate. However, research and consultation on this need to begin. To accelerate the extremely slow acceptance of innovative methods, a validation and innovation point will be replaced by a committee. Who guarantees this is more than just replacing a name tag? Many congregations have their hands in their hair. What does the Secretary of State do? Is she shrugging her shoulders in the vein of "those asbestos roofs have been written off for a long time" or "it is normal that these roofs are replaced every few years" or "the Housing Act places the responsibility on the building owner and that owner can still choose cheap replacement materials" or "the past few years the number of dumping has not increased"? If that's what you think, Secretary of State, then we have the feeling that it's coming from the ivory tower in The Hague, blinding us to reality. I hope the Secretary of State says: I want results and I do so with the human measure. Building owners with a small wallet are trapped, because for them there is an unpaid obligation to clean up €10,000 is nothing at all when you talk about this and behind them are municipal officials with a penalty in the pocket. Because that's from 2024, if we go on like this, it is. On the left there is a secretary of state and the question is: what does she do? That's where I think there's the possibility of getting this right. On the right, we also have the threat of rising prices for clean-up. I am really afraid of a wild-west situation just before the deadline, of an exponential increase in illegal and unsafe clean-up and of an exponential increase in dumping in the free environment and at skyrocketing prices for clean-up. I have just noticed that, fortunately, I am not the only one there. We can complain, but we also need to talk about the solution. We share the wishes of the Secretary of State and of many of the people I have heard before, and I think I will hear them in a moment to get rid of these unsafe asbestos roofs, but in a way that really shows the human dimension. We don't want any wild-west situations that Jan's got to deal with with. Regulations must always be workable and affordable. That is why I have a few proposals to make the law that provides a basis for introducing, inter alia, the ban on asbestos roofs acceptable. My first proposal: look at the final adoption and design of a ban on the expected availability of clean-up capacity and its affordability. And apply a phasering depending on the extent to which categories of roofs pose a risk. There are cases where the risks are so limited that a much wider transitional period or an exception can be chosen. I would like to mention, for example, the application of a coating that minimises the risks. My second proposal is to give more air to the owners, municipalities and clean-up companies concerned by putting the ban on asbestos roofs back for at least two years, so even further than VVD and CDA have just indicated. We have received this question from society: LTO, the association of owners and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u66	Mr President, I know, I still have half an interruption. I think that's enough for me, and my colleague Stoffer is going to be completely clear to me. Mr Stoffer has tabled an amendment to bring the ban on asbestos from 2024 to 2026. What's he basing those two years on? The PVV agrees with him that 2024 seems a utopia, but why 2026? What's he basing himself on, that he's gonna make it happen in two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u67	Good question. I have just mentioned LTO and the association of owners of houses. From these parties we get this space: give us two years; then we see a great chance that we will make it. That is also linked to the area that is still to go. Mr von Martels has just made a very clear reference to this. There's two years in there. Is that a hard law of Medes and Persians, and you're gonna make it? Could one and a half be, or two and a half? Yeah, you can argue about that, but those two years seem pretty real with the knowledge of today. Mr Van Aalst nods, so I think I have given a sufficiently clear answer. So our demand is to put that back for two years, because then we are less likely to get caught up with the scarce capacity to clean up. That seems to us better than to say in advance: let us do an evaluation in 2022. The third solution is to ensure better facilitating policies. Come up with a good subsidy scheme to support building owners who are financially stuck, and then more than a few euros per square meter, while the cost is tens of euros. If you do it via the Municipal Fund, you can leave the execution to municipalities, but let's not throw the financial problem over the fence. Lowering the cost of landfilling asbestos. GroenLinks has just asked for this. We too would very much like something to be done about this. Put the waste tax on asbestos down instead of up, and make meters to tackle the bottlenecks in current regulations. Make sure there's a separate roof certificate soon. That really gives the room for innovation. Then there's the workbox and the cranes. I am very pleased that the rulers want to give room for the use of these work boxes on the cranes, but the question is what it will mean in practice. The relaxation does not take place for three-quarters of a year, and the maximum load on the workbox is limited to a quarter of the permissible workload. Each project also requires the consent of a safety expert. That's how you get, I'm afraid, not the gear we're really looking for. Our question is therefore whether the Secretary of State would like to go into consultation with the sector again in order to adapt the rules so that they are instantly really workable outside the field. Finally, Mr President. In line with the proposals I have just made, I have tabled a number of amendments, and I hope that the Secretary of State and colleagues will support them. Because if we work together on consistent policies, we can also reduce the amount of asbestos fibres in the air and prevent wild-west scenes in rural areas. I have known you both for the past six months, if I can keep up this day, I will be in the Chamber for six months, not as cold and cold but above all as warm and wise. I would say: take this problem by the head as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u68	Thank you. Mrs Van Eijs has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u69	I've been waiting for Mr. Stoffer's story. He mentions all those things that have also been mentioned by the others and that we are all concerned about. I don't think either of us wants to see a wild west scene. But I am a little surprised that Mr Stoffer is completely ignoring the purpose of this law and that he has not actually given a word about the dangers of asbestos and why we are doing so. My question is therefore: is the SGP in favour of the objective of preventing asbestos victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u70	Let me be very clear about that. Thank you for giving me that opportunity; I may have ignored that. Our pink cloud is an asbestos-free society. So that goes a little further than what we have here. The asbestos roofs away I hope that indirectly sounded that way in my story. We fully support that. That must be done, but it must be done in a real way. So thank you for that question. I'm glad I could emphasise that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u71	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Van Aalst of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The sooner the Netherlands is rid of asbestos, the better. The 2024 deadline for asbestos roofs helps to keep the pressure on it, but the PVV is wondering if we are going to achieve this goal at all. The free market does not for the time being provide for the demand for everything to be repaired during that period. That is strange, because asbestos restructuring is a growing market in which there is a lot of money to be made. Something seems to be going wrong here. Maybe the certification for sanitors isn't in order? Can the Secretary of State report that? Or does it just have to do with people no longer wanting to work in that sanatorium world? Can the Secretary of State state explain why the supply is lagging so far behind the demand for asbestos rehabilitation? Mr. Chairman. Perhaps prices will be further pushed up by strict regulation. Until recently, the use of the crane in asbestos repair was prohibited. An exception to this ban has now been introduced. But a crane is only allowed if all other working methods are excluded. This sounds nice, but it only turns out to be symbolic politics. In practice, this means that you will have to work with more expensive telehandlers, because they are almost always an option. What is the Secretary of State going to do to ensure that this does not lead to exorbitantly high prices because that telehandler will simply have to be used? Mr. Chairman. There is also the reason why the PVV does not believe in subsidies for this asbestos remodelling. In a market with high demand and low supply, such a subsidy linea recta leads to an increase in prices. Is the Secretary of State familiar with this price mechanism? Does it recognise the perverse incentive to increase the prices that subsidies these sanatories? What's she gonna do about this? Mr. Chairman. In its present form, the deadline of 2024 lacks support. Can the Secretary of State indicate how it expects this reorganisation to take place? Has she done the math yet? Does she foresee that all provinces will be in line? Will it set intermediate targets so that we as a Chamber can keep our finger on the pulse? Mr. Chairman. Even if we do not meet the deadline of 2024, at least we want to have the roofs repaired that pose a direct threat to public health. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take a risk-oriented approach to the reorganisation notice? I believe that this can be done quite simply, because the resources are already there. Each clean-up is preceded by an asbestos inventory showing the state in which the material is located and how many fibres will be released. It is therefore possible to provide a risk class for this reorganisation. Mr. Chairman. The PVV calls on the cabinet to stand right next to the owners of those asbestos roofs and to see together how we can clean up at a responsible pace. The purpose of 2024 helps, but only with proper justification. Mr. Chairman. We know that asbestos fibres damage public health. If that is the case, I ask the Secretary of State why this does not apply to the 35 m that individuals themselves can repair without any plan for restoration. They can just take that garbage away to their garbage dump. Isn't that dangerous for public health? And can the Secretary of State clarify whether the Red-for-Red scheme could possibly be a year's drive for asbestos remodelling? If so, is the Secretary of State prepared to look at this solution? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u73	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Van Eijs of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u74	Thank you, Mr President. People's health and safety is a great asset. Asbestos is a hugely harmful substance, which presents major health risks when released. In the past, this substance has been widely used in construction. Looking back, that was a big mistake. D66 is pleased that the Secretary of State is taking great steps to correct this mistake. In order to achieve this objective, this legislative proposal is an important means. It provides the opportunity to take the next major step to remove asbestos and thereby reduce the risk of this substance. Some 80% of all asbestos has been used in construction. By far most of them are used in roofs and corrugated sheets. Because of weathering in the outdoors, they bring the greatest risk. D66 is convinced that a deadline is needed, and therefore supports the ban on asbestos roofs and the obligation to remove contaminated soils. We are satisfied with the great progress that is being made. However, we are concerned about the illegal asbestos dump. We think it's a very bad case. The Secretary of State has previously indicated that she has no evidence that there is an increase in illegal dumping of asbestos waste. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make a commitment to keep a close eye on this and intervene in the event of a significant increase? As I said, we support the ban. Forbidden is one thing, but all asbestos from the rooftops is a second. We would like an update on the approach and progress the Secretary of State has been monitoring so far. We are concerned about noises that we hear from different parties. Colleagues have already said a lot about this. D66 is convinced that it is possible to achieve the 2024 challenge, but to make it a success, some bottlenecks need to be resolved. The capacity. Do we have enough hands to do this job? The report of the permanent committee for Infrastructure and Water State shows that provinces are actively engaged in the asbestos restructuring exercise and are taking major steps in this regard. In particular, I would like to congratulate the province of Gelderland on the great commitment on their part, but examples of other provinces have already been mentioned. At the same time, it was reported in the same monitor that the provinces see problems with capacity. Does the Secretary of State share the statements and assessments in this report? Does it see room for improvement in cooperation between local authorities? With regard to capacity, I would like to return to previous suggestions, made by the VVD among others. We welcome the proposal to see whether partial certificates can be introduced, but we do want to insist on ensuring that workers' health and safety remain at the forefront of all such innovations as a party. The situation must not arise that workers become ill because of the speed of rehabilitation. As a result, the same applies to the SGP's desire to enable or accelerate the use of several types of cranes in the reorganisation exercise. Under the conditions mentioned in yesterday's letter from the SZW Secretary of State, we support this proposal. The VNG mentions a bottleneck that relates to enforcement. Following the VNG, D66 is concerned about the future enforcement of the ban after 2024 by the competent authority. The Secretary of State has indicated that local authorities are actively involved in the programming approach and that most local authorities are expected to be equipped for their enforcement tasks from the intended end date. If we want to generate an active, workable situation and greater clarity towards the local authorities, can a common, uniform approach be drawn up from the government to address the concerns surrounding future enforcement? A third bottleneck mentioned relates to funding. Many colleagues have already mentioned this. The Secretary of State has indicated that within the programmed approach she is in the process of bringing together various financial or grant schemes to support entrepreneurs and individuals in their asbestos restructuring notice, even after the 75 million grant pot is exhausted. We support this commitment and support the opportunity to make the link between this rehabilitation process and the issue of sustainability. A number of regional initiatives have already done this. The "asbestos off, sun on it" scheme has already been mentioned by GroenLinks. Unfortunately, this scheme is only available to entrepreneurs and large-scale roofers. From the point of view of supporting individuals in their task of removing their asbestos while at the same time offering the possibility of a sustainable alternative, we would like to know from the Secretary of State whether it is prepared to extend this scheme and make it available to individuals. In addition, D66 is very curious about other sustainable initiatives that can be linked to the asbestos restructuring exercise, such as the possible renewal of stables on the basis of the climate assessment, the Fire-Safe Animal Stables Action Plan 2018-2022 and animal welfare policy. Can this link be made? Does the Secretary of State pay attention to this in her policy and in the programmed approach? The Secretary of State stated in her reply in the note of 1 June last that she is not familiar with specific obstacles in linking sustainability to the cleaning of asbestos roofs. This is what she says: where the link is desirable, it is laid. Is the Secretary of State prepared to adapt this approach and place it wherever possible? Finally. An important question that concerns our party in the context of the circular economy and sustainability is: how do we handle asbestos waste in a circular and sustainable way? In the current situation, asbestos waste is being disposed of at special waste sites and is a waste product that is not being used and that even remains dangerous. D66 strongly supports the transition to a circular economy. Every waste has the potential to become a raw material again, even in the case of asbestos. The report of the research firm KLB shows that several processing methods are available to process asbestos, some of which can be used to reuse asbestos. As far as D66 is concerned, they will be widely applied in the future, but steps will have to be taken to do so. That is why the question to the Secretary of State is whether she shares this institution with us and is prepared to take steps to do so. Is it prepared to make this part of its programmed approach and to encourage the re-use of asbestos by local authorities? I'm considering a motion for this. Then my final question, Mr. Chairman. With this law, the Secretary of State creates the possibility to tackle other products containing asbestos, to introduce AMvBs for that purpose. Does she have any plans for that right now? So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u75	Thank you. Mr Van Dijk has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u76	Mr President, thank you. Actually, I have a short question. I think the whole House agrees that we want to get rid of asbestos, but it is about the date of its introduction. What about D66 in relation to the motion of the CDA and the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u77	I have indicated that the deadline is especially important for us. Two motions have been tabled, or two amendments. An amendment was tabled by Mr Stoffer in 2025. That seems to take the pressure off the kettle too much. We really need to make sure there's just a deadline. Recently there was a call from the deputy of Gelderland in Trouw to make sure that there really is a date now, so that people do not think that is going to be delayed. That just needs to be clear and clear. Those asbestos roofs need to be cleaned up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u78	Thank you, Mrs Van Eijs. Then we came to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending until 5:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u79	Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I would suggest to Members that they do it in a different way. I'll give you five questions. Then you can think for yourself how to fill that out. It could be an interruption in five, it could be five separate questions, but that way we keep it a little exciting and we also look at the clock a little bit. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very good to have the debate with each other right now. I would like to start with what I actually heard throughout the Chamber, namely the need to set a clear deadline, because this is a really dangerous substance that we simply have to get rid of. I can taste a lot of support from the entire Chamber to set a deadline to tackle those rooftops. Mr Stoffer started on the deadline and said: we're actually fighting time, but time isn't waiting for us either. Those roofs are weathering and so it is really important that we send a clear signal together about how we are going to tackle this problem in the Netherlands. 2024 state. The Chamber has asked a number of questions. These relate in particular to the national overview of what are we talking about? How are we going to finance this task, and then a whole series of other points, of how are we going to do this in practice and what direction does the government have to take? Those are also a bit of the three blocks in which I wanted to do the answer. But perhaps a general introduction first. The task is great. We want to be ready by 2024. Then one says "lover in January" and the other says "let's use the year 2024." I think, given the size of the task, it's not unreasonable to say that we just need 2024, given the tension there is. We must have the remaining years cleaned 15 million m a year. That's a real challenge. But that's what we're all working on. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State therefore initiated the programmatic approach in 2016. So we do this together with a lot of parties. Provinces are pulling it hard. A lot of municipalities are working very hard. A very broad group of ambassadors are active, from local authorities, businesses, umbrella organisations. There's a nationwide program office. A subsidy scheme has been put in place as a driver, because it really wasn't as on the agenda a few years ago as it is now, the urgency wasn't felt and the deadline wasn't as clear as it was. At that time, I think, this subsidy played a very important role. The arrangement was a great success. From 6 million to 7 million in 2014. In 2015, the quantity really increased, to 10 and 11 million minus 2016 and 2017. Other governments are now taking over, developing subsidy schemes and favourable financing opportunities. I shall go into this further in the following blocks on the basis of the specific questions raised by Members. In short, we work really well together. Everyone wants to handle this. Everyone wants to fix this. Best practices are well shared. We're really working together. Mr. Chairman. Then it might be a good thing to say that, for my part, the cleaning of asbestos roofs in 2024 seems feasible to me. Then I will go into: how much do we actually talk about, how does this funding work, how do we conduct the national direction, and other questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u81	The Secretary of State makes it very clear that we would like to continue using 2024 to bring about the clean-up. So the Secretary of State says: I want the rehabilitation to be arranged 31-12-2024?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u82	We don't have to put a date in this law yet. We'll record it in the AMvB later. It is true that there has always been talk of 2024 and not of a specific moment in 2024. It is also important to discuss this with each other here as a Chamber. This is when we actually set such a deadline. I'm sure there have been some ideas about that, but this is the moment we record it. Given the sounds of this in the Chamber, I feel that we could make good use of each other that year 2024.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u83	I look in the explanatory memorandum on page 1. I don't have to go very far. It says that it is being established with an AMvB, and indeed we still have to do so with effect from 1 January 2024. So I wonder what happened in the meantime. Where did we get that year's delay? What is the basis for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u84	This is when we talk about the legal text and how we want to do this. There's always been talk to everyone about 2024. You have also all noticed that it has taken quite a long time for us to finally discuss this bill with each other. You all note that it is important that we do it carefully and tailor-made on a number of points, and that we should not unnecessarily increase the tension at the end. That is why I think it is wise to use the year 2024. It gives a very clear signal and a clear deadline. It ensures that, with all due care and with all the urgency that is appropriate, we can do this well with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u85	I am getting a little sharp right now, because that is the political point. When does the ban enter into force? To date, 1 January 2024 has been communicated everywhere. The explanatory memorandum also talks about this. I realize that's a huge task. For our group, it is important to know what the basis for that year is. Or is it just emotional? The time is short, even if you extend it by a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u86	Mr Van Dijk quite rightly says that the time is short and the task is great. We now decide what the real date is, given the amount of funding and the capacity available in the market. That's a big split. We need a deadline, a clear deadline. That's 2024. We're talking about a few months now. We must maintain the urgency, but we must also avoid ending up in situations that Mr Van Dijk himself described. So what I'm actually saying is, let's decide with each other on whether we want to include that year 2024. This suggestion is made from the Chamber. I heard him. I also heard someone say: it needs to be pushed back even longer. I think that's a little too far. When the bill was proposed, several analyses were made of whether you should go further forward or a little further back. In the end, a date was chosen that, given the task and what could be done about it, was a bit in the middle. It seems real to me to make use of the year 2024, without a very specific additional basis. It seemed to me to be a reasonable request from the Chamber, given the debate and the concerns there are, also about market pressure and the presence of sufficient capacity. So that's why I'm reacting to that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u87	Still a little while. I don't want to be silly; I'm not like that at all. But I have come to this debate with documents that state: 1 January 2024. Now I hear two parties saying: let's postpone it for a year. And in a 15-minute break, it's settled. Then I wonder what I'm still doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u88	That sounds like a rhetorical question to me. I think we have a debate here. A motion was announced. I was asked how I felt about that. In the end, the Chamber itself will vote on this law. The Chamber shall also vote on the date. In that respect, I merely point out that I do not think it is an unreasonable request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u89	I asked a rhetorical question, but I mean it really seriously. I didn't see a motion. I've heard input. We still have to assess it. And the Secretary of State has already indicated in the first term that she's gonna take the delay. Period. That's what my question was about. But with that, I'll have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u90	Mr Van Dijk makes it a rather wondrous construction. Does he say that I cannot answer the questions asked by the Members of Parliament? In fact, the question from the Chamber has just been asked whether I am prepared to make use of the year 2024. Mr Stoffer has also asked a question, even more so, which has tabled an amendment on whether I am prepared to go until 2026. In answer to that, it seems fair to say that goes too far. I'm not prepared to do that. But that doesn't make any decision. You decide. I make you a proposal, you ask me questions, I tell you how I feel about it, and you decide whether you agree with each other, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u91	Following on from my colleague from the PvdA: it is happening very quickly. The Secretary of State just started her first term for two minutes, and we've been a year. I think that is exactly the problem in this whole debate. The 2024, are we gonna make it? How are we gonna get that? But if we are now a year further in two minutes, I wonder how this debate is going to proceed. Will I now be guaranteed by the Secretary of State that it will be settled on 31 December 2024?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u92	We make the law with each other here. I'll suggest it and you'll tell me what you think. Then you will vote on it and then we will have decided together in this democracy what we are going to do in the Netherlands. I think that's a good use. I intend to do it this way, too. There's no date in this bill. There's gonna be an AMvB. It lays down the date in concrete terms. In the context of this whole system and the clarity that is needed, many of you have asked whether this is feasible and whether I am prepared to make use of the year 2024 throughout which we are always talking about. I said I don't think that's unreasonable. 2026 I would find too much watering down the urgency, so I wouldn't be willing to do that. That's my answer. There might be another motion later, given the resurrection that's going on. Well, then we'll see how the Chamber votes on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u93	I think I asked another question. I think I asked: do we now have a guarantee that it will be ready by 31 December 2024? I think that was literally my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u94	If the Chamber decides to do so, then we've arranged it. If you decide we're not gonna do it like this, then we haven't taken care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u95	I'm looking at my order list: Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u96	I too am not happy with this turn of events in the debate at such short notice. The Secretary of State has sent a law to the Chamber, together with a statement of explanation, which clearly states that 1 January 2024. So that was the Secretary of State's intention. That was the plan. Now two parties say about that date that they want to use the whole 2024. Instead of showing ambition and direction and saying that we need to tackle this problem, "hop" will be added in a few minutes for a year. I do not think this is a sign of respect for the urgency that this issue needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u97	It's being made into a whole thing now. We've always said 2024. All Members of Parliament, even Mrs Kröger, have said: it is very ambitious; are we going to make it? Concerns are expressed because there may be too much market tension at the last minute. There are concerns about funding: do we all manage within that time; do we all know enough? These are justified points to respond carefully with each other. It has been asked from the Chamber whether I am prepared to use 2024 throughout the year. They also asked me if I'm willing to go until 2026. I answer that neatly and you fall over me like this is a major political point. Maybe it's for that, not for me. I am trying to deal pragmatically with this, to keep the urgency high, to keep the deadline clear and to make a package with each other that is also feasible, because everyone is entitled to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u98	This feasibility is indeed central, which is why a number of parties are surprised that the budgets are not sufficient and that the Secretary of State takes so little direction. But my question is actually: does the Secretary of State now deny that, when this law was sent with the explanatory statement, the intention was to regulate a ban on asbestos roofs by 1 January 2024 through an AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u99	No, why would I deny that? That's literally in the explanatory statement, isn't it? I have only been asked whether I am prepared to use that year 2024 in the light of all the questions raised about urgency, capacity, affordability and feasibility. It's just as well asked if I'm willing to stretch it up to 2026. On the one hand, I said: I can imagine. And on the other hand, I said, "I can't imagine." That's all it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u100	I would almost ask: let us suspend for another 20 minutes, because then we have that one year that I ask for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u101	I don't think so! I don't think so, because 2024 we've always talked to everyone, and 2024 it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u102	Okay, but this wasn't my question. This was just a comment. When I heard "2024," I thought: this is really going in the right direction; this gives air. My question over these two years has focused on signals from the market, from the asbestos repairer himself and so on, to whom this concern lies. That's what I reported later. Maybe I am too early and I will go further in the State Secretary's speech, but my question is whether she really wants to go into the question of whether she has the confidence that that market is really up to the task and that we will actually have it resolved in due course. How does she see that happen? It's not about the date. It really has to be with one another: with society, with the asbestos-sanitators. We shouldn't be pushing as a government. There are people in the middle of that, among all those people, who think, "I'm being ground." I hope that I will have an answer to that now or in the course of the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u103	I'm sure I'll come back to that. The answer is yes, I have faith in that. If this bill, which was filed in the 2016-2017 meeting year, could have been dealt with immediately, there would have been just a little more time between the moment that the deadline was in place and the moment that the deadline entered. It's taken a little more time. That is why I think it is real to say that we are still making use of that year 2024, but given the approach and acceleration that we are able to achieve, given also the coordination, ambassadors and the exchange of best practices, I am confident that this can be done. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs will also comment on the way in which we are trying to increase capacities with each other. It all helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u104	I just want to make one thing right. I hear the Secretary of State say all the time: we talked about 2024. That's not true. The explanatory statement makes it very clear: ban on 1 January 2024. So we have not had a debate on the whole year 2024. That's what it says here; we don't make that up. There are a lot of pain points, a lot of questions, that we've all asked. So why does the Secretary of State, without dealing with it and without going into it in depth, without looking for opportunities such as funding but also certified companies, so without having to debate it, give away within two minutes that we can postpone it for a year? 31-12-2024 is just January 1, 2025. Then let's just call it that. That one day, I don't really care...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u105	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u106	... but that year, I do care a lot. So I don't understand the Secretary of State's turn at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u107	This is the moment when we have the debate together. But I have, of course, had the debate at many times with other governments, with people from the sector, with municipalities, with the asbestos ambassadors, with all the parties needed to implement this ambitious plan. And when Mr Laçin says, because that sounds a bit like his question, which is not ambitious at the end of 2024, I would like to know what he is basing it on. Furthermore, I do not deny in any way that the explanatory memorandum states that date. Why would I do that? It's just there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u108	Then just call it that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u109	Mr President, I have just done the same. In reply to questions put to me by the Chamber, taking into account all the comments that have been made, and taking into account all the conversations I have had, I said that I understand that the question is whether it should be 1 January or whether we can make use of that year. I think it is real that this question is coming, so I said that it is a use I think is real, but I do not think that waiting until 2026 is realistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u110	Well, it's a good thing we're not going to 2026. Before we have had the debate, the Secretary of State has already admitted. That's not gonna happen to me. There's a plan here. We have not yet had the debate on this. The Secretary of State is just beginning to answer her question and immediately gives it away, without any justification. Because that ambition remains. 1 January 2024 is ambitious, and 1 January 2025 is also ambitious, but let us first see how we can achieve 1 January 2024 before we say: no, we will take another year. I don't understand that at all. We haven't had that debate yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u111	So Mr Laçin would have preferred me to have saved the present for the last time, but does he still think it is ambitious?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u112	Mr Laçin would have liked you not to give gifts at all before we enter the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u113	You can always table a motion on that. Then we'll see how the Chamber feels about that. Mr President, so much for my general introduction. Let me now turn to all the questions put by Members who have led me to the conclusion that the use of that year 2024 as a whole may not have been so sensible. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the national survey. How much are we talking about? I think it would be a good idea to share the figures with each other. A SMEA was carried out across all provinces, and this showed in 2012 that there would be 120 million moon asbestos roofs. On the basis of the ISZW's start-up reports, Rijkswaterstaat counts that 42 million has been cleaned up until 2018. So that's how you get to a residual amount of about 80 million. It's always a little more specific, but by the end of 2017, the estimate was 80 to 90 million. It is expected that 12-13 million will also be restored in 2018. That's the amount we're talking about. Mr Laçin and a number of others asked for a national overview of asbestos roofs. Some local authorities have already inventoried them. I am also working with the local authorities to see how we can properly link these statements. This will create an overview that is also important for enforcement at some point. So we're gonna put all this together so we can have a good rural image. That will become more and more crystallizing. I am going to respond specifically to the amendment in the second period. Maybe I am now giving away a present, which Mr Laçin is not happy with, but we can fill in the von Martels/Ziengs amendment, which calls for a report in 2022 on the amount we are talking about. That nationwide system, we're going to link that overview. And that's going to give us a basis on which we can report. That was also Mr Ziegs' question. In January, I would like to inform your Chamber of how far we are with this truly nationwide system. Then you'll have more insight into that, too. Mr. Chairman. Then the question is, how do we pay it? I have also heard many of you raise the question of how to ensure that people who are in a tight financial situation will not be faced with a ban which does not actually have an action perspective. I understand that concern. I've been working on that a lot, too. First of all, of course, we have the subsidy scheme that was available. Mr Laçin and Mr van Dijk say that the 75 million is not enough to clean up all the asbestos roofs and ask how I am going to do that. It is true that the 75 million is not enough, but it was never intended to subsidise the renovation of all the asbestos roofs; then you are really talking about quite different amounts. However, it was intended to pre-empt the cleaning of asbestos roofs. We had a time when we saw: it's getting really urgent, but we don't have a deadline and no instruments yet, but let's not waste any time. That's why there's a grant. And that is why, in the interim, when applications were made, I occasionally brought forward some money so that the people who had already made an application should not wait unnecessarily long. It is a little faint to say: leave your grant application for six months, because when the new year comes, there may be money again. That is why we used that money as much and as quickly as possible. Local authorities are working on financial incentives. We are indeed looking together with these local authorities to see how you can go to a revolving fund. You always have to replace your roof at some point, but sometimes you want to replace your asbestos roof just a little earlier than you might be ready to save. Then it is important that, thanks to a revolving fund, people can get a loan at a low threshold and at a low cost in order to shape that reorganisation for that deadline. For this, we are working out the financing option. Provinces have many funding options. My role is to make it possible for other partners to contribute. We are even looking at the possible contribution of international funds, because we want to develop as much funding as possible. Mr Van Aalst is concerned that subsidies are a perverse incentive and lead to price increases. He's asking what I'm gonna do about it. The subsidy has driven the pace. That was the goal. We have no indication of price increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u114	I would like to be very specific about the Secretary of State. It has always been foreseen that this €4,50/m would continue to apply for 2018 and 2019. Can you guarantee that people who are going to clean their roof next year can still be eligible for this €4.50?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u115	We always said there was a budget of 75 million for it. When that's over, the grant will stop. I think there's still some available next year, but it stops at 75 million. That is the budget that the Chamber has set aside for this. In addition, we are also developing other mechanisms, so that there are opportunities for everyone who needs to tackle their roof and make use of a financing option. That's not quite the same as a grant. I am not saying stop the subsidy; otherwise there is nothing else, so now you're going to figure it out. No, we're very hard at work for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u116	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There was a question from Mr Van Dijk, but I also think Mr Laçin, Mrs Kröger, Mr von Martels and Mr Van Aalst. I think everyone actually asked about that. What are you going to do with owners who can't afford it at all, who can't even repay a loan? So we're looking together to see how a revolver fund can be designed. The idea of this is that it is really accessible to all roof owners, including the less capable ones. You always keep in mind with such a public revolver fund that there will also be people who will not be able to pay it back in the end, but we have to take everyone with us. Those asbestos roofs have to go everywhere. So we're also gonna work with all the partners to see how we can do that. A revolving fund must be for everyone; that is the starting point. I would also like to inform the Chamber about this at the beginning of 2019. The question was asked as to whether there might also be a possibility of linking national funding to rehabilitation, sustainability of the housing inventory and solar panels schemes. There are indeed a lot of interesting options for that link. Energy companies, the market, are also taking this on their own. That's actually very interesting to see. We want to pool all the initiatives through a programmed approach. Not every roof is suitable for solar panels. For some it is therefore an interesting option and not for others. But I also think it would be good to discuss with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs how we can link their task of making the housing stock more sustainable to the asbestos approach as much as possible. I know that provinces look in the context of regional deals to see if they can link things up and that, at provincial level, they also look very closely at, for example, red-for-red or red-for-green schemes. If you clean up a farm barn while you know that those people have a daughter who would like to live on that property, you can also make it possible to clean up a barn. There are a lot of examples of ways in which you can come up with a customized solution. So we're gonna come up with a letter saying how we're gonna make that all possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u118	Just an enlightening question about that revolver fund the Secretary of State referred to. What does that look like for the good citizen who has actually already been crooked or otherwise raked the money together to clean his roof? Can he use that revolver fund with retroactive effect, or did he just rip through his savings and have had bad luck?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u119	That is why it is so important that there has been a subsidy scheme so far. It was available to everyone. So everyone who has been reorganised so far had access to a gift, a grant, a concession in the costs. All those people who were there early and said "we're going to work, because we see the problems" have really got a contribution to the costs. We are now going, as it were, to swallowtails so that funding can be made available for the task that remains until 2024.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u120	I understand. There was a subsidy scheme. Only, we're out of money now. So there are people who are now cleaning up with their own money. The Secretary of State is actually saying to them: stop doing so, because there is a revolver fund coming up, so if you want to receive another contribution from the government, then you should not clean up your own money now. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u121	No, I'm not. Grant is also available at the beginning of 2019, until that 75 million pot is empty. So there's still one. In addition, there are already revolving funds available in a number of provinces. Some of the instruments are already there. Both the provinces and me, the asbestos ambassadors and the VNG have a lot to do with ensuring that there are just instruments. So everyone is working very hard on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u122	I'm gonna zoom in on the revolver fund. I have made a number of suggestions in my contribution. I don't hear the Secretary of State come back to that. She does say that she will deliver a letter in 2019, but I would also like to have an answer to the specific examples I gave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u123	I'll take a look at my notes. I know that Mr Ziengs at least mentioned the insurers and made the link that they have to pay a lot when there is a fire. So he asked: can insurers contribute to such a national scheme? I find that an interesting suggestion. We'll take a look at that. The People's Housing Fund has also been mentioned as a party that could play a role in this. We are absolutely involved in this too. Mr Ziegs also referred to the guarantees. Those are also points that we will come back to. These are all very useful suggestions that can ultimately contribute to a revolver fund that has sufficient coverage and is also available to anyone who needs it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u124	Given that there are some concerns about the timetable and deadline of 1 January 2024, which in any case we would like to reach, I have the following question. By when does the Secretary of State see that the revolving fund will then be in operation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u125	I am glad to hear Mrs Kröger also speak about her 'worried about the deadline of 1 January', because we have just talked about this. No, that's a joke, Mr. Chairman; I won't be inciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u126	Nice humor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u127	Some of these revolving funds are already there, in a number of provinces. I will come to the Chamber in January with a letter in which I would like to outline how we are taking care of this national coverage approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u128	Once again, we very much want that 1 January 2024, so we would also very much like to hear a timetable from the Secretary of State. What is the timetable between now and 1 January 2024 and when would such a revolver fund enter into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u129	Yes, and I was just telling Mrs Kröger that such a revolver fund already exists in a number of provinces and that we are now going to see with a number of parties, also mentioned by Mr Ziengs, how we can ensure that funding is available in all provinces. Many municipalities and provinces already do a lot of things themselves, but we just want to make sure that there is a nationwide covering mechanism. In January, as I said very clearly to you, I will come up with a letter on this, so you will have all that, including, of course, when it will be realized. But before I have an agreement with other parties on this, it is difficult to tell you when they are going to contribute to it. So wait for the letter. Mr. Chairman. Then the point of the 35 m. Where did that number come from? That 35 m was once determined by TNO. The goal was actually not to force people who once have to remove a picture somewhere immediately to hire an entire moonman. It is important, of course, that we work hard to make the removal through innovation increasingly cheaper. Once again, the Secretary of State is going to deal with that in a moment. It is also important to know that the subsidy scheme and the funding option were always open to people with a small roof, a roof on their own shed. So it's not like you didn't qualify for that under 35 m. So you could always do it, but if it's really about something small, you're not obligated to do it. That's actually the difference. In addition, it is important to know that we actively inform people through the website of Environment Central: if you do it yourself, how do you do it safely? Often you can also get free bags from the municipality in which you can safely transport it. Then you can deliver it to the dump free of charge. You can't do it if it's weathered. For all those kinds of points people are warned whether or not they will do the one picture themselves. We try to deal with that carefully in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u130	I'm still a little concerned about that. We are now going to determine that 35 m is not harmful to those people. At least we let people themselves judge whether it is harmful or not and whether it is sufficiently weathered. If we find together that asbestos is harmful to our public health, then we should not be allowed to do so. 35m, harmful, not harmful, we don't know: we shouldn't want that with each other, should we? Then we just have to say, guys, stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u131	I think it's a good thing that we're sending out the signal that you shouldn't if you're worried about the roof of your shed and you're wondering if it's weathered or not. So you can use the subsidy scheme or the financing scheme, but we do not oblige people to hire a moonman for a small picture. I think we should be reasonable about that. But in the case of care, it is true: do not. I think that's a very clear signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u132	I am going to be more and more surprised by this ongoing debate, because we know that one fibre of asbestos can already be lethal. So I very much agree with Mr Van Aalst, who says that we cannot distinguish between 10 m, 40 m or 35 m, because if it does not happen carefully, even 5 m may be fatal. So what reasonableness is there when we say: for 35 m or less you don't have to hire a moonman, but it can be lethal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u133	I can see why they're asking questions about this. That's why it's a good thing we're talking about it. It's not like you say at a smaller amount: well, it doesn't matter at all. But with a smaller amount, people are informed about how to do it safely, if you want to do it yourself, through the Environment Central website. Because even then, it's important that you do it safely. It is important that we emphasise this with each other here. It's just that you don't oblige people to hire a contractor for a small amount, because that brings with it costs and hassle. People don't have to do it themselves. They can claim the subsidy scheme, including for a smaller quantity. Soon they will also be able to use the funding possibilities for a small roof. Again, if you have a roof, please check the website of Environment Central. If you are concerned and do not know whether or not it is weathered, make sure it is professionally removed. But you're not obliged to do that. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u134	Mr. Van Aalst, I see to you that you...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u135	Yeah, I know. I didn't really want to spend my last interruption on this, Mr President, but it's no different. I really think this is a shambles of the sanitizing business. We impose all kinds of rules on that industry, for example to take stock in advance. There are also all kinds of rules regarding the cleaning themselves with hoists and hassles. And then we say to the private person: just pull that 35 m off your roof, no problem, no problem at all! We can't understand that, can we? Asbestos is harmful or asbestos is not harmful. It's not about square meters, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u136	It is perhaps important to distinguish between them. Most individuals have only one barn in their garden and do so perhaps once. Many of the rules are designed to protect the health of people working in the asbestos industry, because they do so every day. It is therefore very important that, in order to protect the people of that sector, we ensure that we lay down the right rules to protect them. In addition, asbestos is simply dangerous. That's why we have a whole law for this. That's why we're banning this. We're trying to tackle the major sources of asbestos together. We are trying to protect the people working in the industry and the environment. It was then asked whether the VAT rate for the cleaning of asbestos roofs could be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u137	Mrs Kröger, you have another one!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u138	Yeah, and yet I'm putting it on this point, too. I simply share the surprise of both the PVV and the SP. That may be a special moment. The Secretary of State is actually laying it all down to the people: if your roof is weathered, please do not do it. On the one hand, therefore, we say that it is so dangerous that, if they are large areas, we have to employ truly incredible trained, specialised and well protected people. And for a smaller surface, people have to assess whether it's weathered or not. That's not real, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u139	I don't think it's real to force people to hire a moon man for a very small amount, while there are methods to take it away safely for yourself and for your environment. They can do that. In large quantities you're also talking about a large amount of asbestos that you're going through. Besides, it's people who do it every day. Those rules are therefore also for the protection of the people in the industry. I do not see why Mrs Kröger would be surprised that we have rules to ensure that we protect the people in the industry well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u140	Mrs Kröger, this is actually number six.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u141	The Secretary of State now discusses the distinction between large and non-large quantities and the question of whether they should be removed professionally or not. However, the Secretary of State also states that people should not do it themselves, if it is weathered. Apparently it is not just about the size, but also about the status, the quality of the asbestos that lies on that roof. The Secretary of State says that people can do the quality assessment themselves. For that, they need to check the website of Environment Centraal. I'm very worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u142	The rules are such that you can do it yourself up to 35 m if it's not weathered. If it's weathered, you can't do it yourself. Those are the rules. So it's important that you make an assessment of that. I therefore think it is important that the financial instruments we have for carefully removing are also available for people with smaller areas. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question from Mr von Martels, namely whether I could lower the VAT rate for the cleaning of asbestos roofs. Unfortunately, I can't do that. That is a responsibility of the Minister of Finance. This calls for a compensatory tax increase elsewhere. VAT can also lead to additional implementation costs for the Tax Administration, so unfortunately I cannot meet Mr von Martels. Mrs Kröger asked whether the waste tax on asbestos could be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u143	Before you proceed, Mr von Martels has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u144	I don't even know if I have a question so much, but I do know what the letters ASBEST stand for. They stand for: all incentives need an incentive allowance. However, I am glad that you are otherwise prepared to see where the incentives can end up in the financial sense, because that is, of course, essential if we are to achieve success.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u145	Absolutely. We understand very well that a financial instrument is needed to help people make this transition. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kröger asked whether the waste tax on asbestos could not be reduced. The landfill tax is a generic charge applicable to all asbestos that is being paid. It is undesirable to exclude asbestos from this. Reducing the waste tax on asbestos can result in asbestos-free waste being mixed with asbestos. So it can even have a perverse effect. That's very unwelcome. The waste tax is also a financial incentive for processing. Mrs Van Eijs and Mrs Kröger referred to this. It is actually a financial incentive that makes alternative processing more interesting. You'd destroy that again if you lowered it specifically. So that's why I don't think that's desirable either. Then Mr Ziengs, Mr von Martels and a few others had questions about the removal of asbestos slate, which is much more expensive. Asked what we do for these owners. Indeed the removal of these slates is much more expensive than the removal of corrugated sheets, because those slates have to be removed each and every one of them. Environment Central provides information in my order and the site also provides information about asbestos slates and the indicative costs. I have also opened up the subsidy scheme for roofs with a surface area of less than 35m. This also helps individuals, who are not allowed to remove asbestos slates themselves. A good example that clean-up with asbestos slate can also be successfully carried out is a residential area in Lelystad. That was a residential area with a lot of asbestos slates. I'm going to see if the good practices that can be obtained there are useful for the rest of the Netherlands. Fortunately, asbestos slates account for a limited proportion of the total amount of asbestos roofs. But we will have to look carefully at whether the financial instruments we have offer sufficient solutions for this group as well. I can very well imagine that the moment of evaluation is a good time to see if it offers solutions for this group or not. If not, you can choose to adjust for this particular group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u146	The latter is not very comforting. You say: at the time of evaluation. Then you mean 2022 or are we going to evaluate earlier? This group is already facing specific problems. So it's good to see what tools we can use to help them now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u147	Of course. The financial instruments such as the revolving fund should also be available to that group immediately. The example in Lelystad, where very specific consideration has been given to how to repair this group, is now well evaluated. Those best practices are well distributed. So we don't stop until 2022 with this group, but I think it's important for this group to put in the thermometer in 2021 and at the latest 2022 to see if it's sufficient. Mr. Chairman. Then ask about the direction. I can imagine that the question is asked how we are going to deal with this nationwide, because it is, of course, a national problem. Through this law, which leads to an AMvB, we ensure a clear national prohibition date. That, I think, gives a very clear national framework. We have a national asbestos programme agency and we have the ambassadors' system. In addition, we have the Rural Asbestos tracking system to also keep a nationwide view of where asbestos is and where it is going. We now have a national subsidy scheme and then we are going to send a letter about this on a national financing mechanism. We also have national communications campaigns. In all sorts of places, the question is, what are you doing about it? Well, we all do that to make sure that those roofs are really being addressed all over the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Alternative processing of asbestos has been requested. It is important to note that asbestos-containing waste must be rendered harmless before it can be reused. There is still insufficient capacity to really defuse asbestos-containing waste. So we cannot really stimulate it now, but we are encouraging the development of processing methods. The two studies which I sent to the Chamber on 17 July this year are intended to provide an answer. They provide an up-to-date and complete picture of the current state of the art. As with technology, fortunately, it develops quickly. We'll keep following that. In fact, we are trying to create the frameworks for it. We will remove any unnecessary legal obstacles in good time, but we must be sure that it is safe. In the short term, we will need to use as best we can to help innovations. I am thinking of incentive schemes for innovation and investment. Only when a processing plant can handle the Dutch supply of asbestos-containing waste can we change something in the lab, but we are not yet there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u148	As so often with this kind of innovation case, you see a chicken egg discussion. Only when you have a certain offer and a standard set by the government will there be a business case to build an installation that is large enough to process the offer. This seems very much like an impasse and that would be very unfortunate. I would like to hear a little more from the Secretary of State about how we get out of this impasse where we are now dumping asbestos waste?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u149	You've had a stalemate before. Innovation and incentive schemes will then be used to take out the uneconomic top for an innovative technology company. That way someone can work with it to show what his proof of concept is. This is a dynamic that is not unique to the waste treatment industry, but also plays here. That is why it is important to use these instruments here too. If we can really defuse the asbestos, of course we're just really done with it. And of course, we all want that. Mr. Chairman. Then a number of questions have been asked about enforcement. What about the capacity? The acceleration approach and the agreements that we are making with each other are of course aimed at getting as many roofs cleaned as possible before 2024. The toolbox is designed to be able to exercise supervision efficiently. The VNG is very aware of this. Seengs asked about the best practices. They are widely shared by the ambassadors, by the national fame, by the VNG, by the provinces. Everyone is firmly committed to that. Do homeowners know they have asbestos? The VNG has communication campaigns to fund municipalities and owners. Through the programme approach, I support that. Also Environment Centraal and the Association Eigen Huis communicate about this via their own websites. Mr. Ziengs also asked if we could pool knowledge and skills to help owners. The programmed approach brings together these best practices. Furthermore, we focus on collectives. Mr Laçin asked about the situation in Wateringen. That was really a local thing in 2015. At that time there was a lot of consultation with the municipality and province in response to the care at the time about the repairing. That concern has been taken away, but apparently not yet with Mr Laçin. Based on the information I have, I have no reason to doubt the opinion of the municipality, which has declared the district asbestos safe. Mr Stoffer asked if coating can help to spread the cleaning of roofs better over the years. Coating is now being used to make the work situation safer for asbestos repairers. The application of a coating that can remain a little longer is likely to require the preparation or cleaning of the asbestos roof. In addition, you would be at risk of releasing a lot of fiber. Moreover, it is ultimately a temporary solution and we must get rid of asbestos. Is there enough capacity? That's exactly the discussion we've had, I think. In the programmed approach, there is also real attention to training and to the distribution of work through regional incentives. Then there was the question of both Mr Van Aalst and Mr Stoffer whether we can prioritise. That sounds sympathetic and logical, but it is not feasible in practice, because that means that you should first have all the asbestos roofs listed along the criteria to be developed in order to arrive at a meaningful classification. That's just gonna slow you down. I understand the idea, but we know today that the asbestos roofs are all in need of replacement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u150	I see certain looks. Before I am able to allow an interruption, the same goes for the others who are already on their fifth interruption. I shall look at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u151	This was my last answer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u152	This was your last answer. After that, we will go briefly to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. Then I'll give Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u153	Mr Van Aalst may have mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u154	See, that's very collegial. Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u155	I am grateful to my colleague in the SGP for that. A quick question. According to the Secretary of State, it's very complicated to prioritize. At every renovation we see that the sanatorium comes by to first make an inventory plan, which he also submits to municipal authorities. I think he can very quickly give a risk class to that. This also gives clarity to the customer: when should I clean my asbestos, as soon as possible, or within three months or within six months? I think that's how we get some air on that market. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u156	With just a classification, you're not here. So you have to make a distinction: which roofs would you and which would you not like to tackle? You're gonna need the inventory of all those roofs for that. That takes time, and then you have to develop a methodology. At the same time, we know that all asbestos roofs are old enough to have a certain degree of weathering and thus to spread fibres. So we just have to get rid of it. I'd think that was a waste of time. I think it's a constructive thought, but I don't think it helps in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u157	I've just heard the Secretary of State say she's almost at the end of her speech. With us, this classification was mainly about the question of: is there sufficient capacity? If the Secretary of State really sees that there is sufficient capacity, the classification can be omitted as far as we are concerned. We are particularly concerned that we should first remove the really unsafe situations. I just have a somewhat sharper question about that capacity. We are getting the signal from the market that people really are walking out of there and that people would rather go back into the construction sector, where there is a lot of employment. The Secretary of State is showing an optimistic sound, but we're getting other signals. So I'm actually curious whether those signals will come to you or just us. Because then we may just speak to the wrong people and to you the good ones, or vice versa. There is still a fear for me, and I would like to know something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u158	If Mr Stoffer sends in this signal, I know he just has a reason to do so. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs is about to do a part of the answer. I think she has a part of the answer to your question. We are also looking at ways to increase capacity, in addition to ensuring that it is part of the programmatic approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u159	Then wait a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u160	Mrs Kröger, perhaps you can have one from Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u161	I think Mrs Van Eijs still has a lot of questions for her own Secretary of State. My question concerns the following. I have not yet heard anything about the danger, the risk, the dumping of asbestos waste in nature and the costs involved. How are we really going to ensure that this does not become a bigger problem in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u162	Indeed, Mrs Kröger is right. Individuals are obliged to deliver asbestos-containing waste to an environmental street, but they can do so very often for free. So then you don't really have an incentive to dump it in the woods. If that is very expensive for the private sector, there might be more risk, but very often it is free. So there is no indication that individuals are dumping a lot. The national asbestos monitoring system will, of course, also help us to monitor the flow and to know where the asbestos remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u163	Then maybe I can catch up on that, because I don't know how many more interruptions I have left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u164	Enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u165	I think I'm still in there. It's very nice that it's very often free, but can't we somehow make sure it's always free? It also seems to me that it is in the interests of municipalities that no asbestos gets into their forest or roadside, but that it is delivered neatly to the environmental street.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u166	Absolutely. I said it's "almost always" free, because I haven't checked with every municipality that it's actually free. I think it is a good thing that we are discussing this point with the VNG, because I fully share Mrs Van Eijs' assessment that it would be good to ensure that this asbestos-containing waste can be handed in free of charge by private individuals. But this is a jurisdiction of the municipality. However, I think it is a point to discuss with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u167	Then I'm missing one more question. At the very end of my speech, I asked whether the Secretary of State intends to use the legal basis for other bans on asbestos-containing products. That possibility is now being created. Are there plans for that or do we focus on the rooftops first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u168	I think we have a very big challenge to face here with each other. This is also the main source that remains. So my first focus now is to get this done. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of the reply. I am happy to give the floor to my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u169	I call the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Today, the ban on asbestos roofs and the legal basis for it are central. However, several groups have pointed out that the removal of these asbestos roofs is of great importance to the safety and, above all, to the health of workers. That's what I like to be here for. At the same time, asbestos rehabilitation must also be workable. That is why I am committed to a careful asbestos policy, in cooperation with parties inside and outside the sector. I have sent a number of letters to the Chamber on this matter. I understand that the Chamber, and specifically the Committee on Social Affairs, would like to discuss this. In preparing my policy response to the asbestos system, I organised a round table with interested parties from the sector. I listened very carefully to their signals about where it pinches. That is why I have made a number of substantial improvements in the system, which means that I always insist on the safety and health of workers. I expect that some of these measures will also contribute to the task we are facing today: the ban on asbestos roofs. I will try to resist the temptation to go very deeply into all the subjects I touch. Where they are relevant to the ban on asbestos roofs, I will, of course, try to explain them in detail. But I want to make sure that the debate we are going to have in the Committee on Social Affairs is largely taken care of here. As I indicated, some of these measures contribute to the ban on asbestos roofs. An example of this is the part certificate for asbestos roofs. Several groups asked for this, including those of the SGP, D66, CDA and VVD. As far as I am concerned, such a certificate could make a very important contribution to the speed of removing these asbestos roofs, under the safety clause. That is why I would like to make that possible. But I do so in steps, because I also think it is important that TNO conducts research because of that safety. She does that for IenW, but of course my department is also involved. If the results of that study are there, I hope we can proceed with the elaboration of that part certificate. Mr. Chairman. Several groups, including PVV, CDA, VVD and SGP, zoomed in on the work boxes. That is indeed a complex problem. You have heard me say it several times, but I cannot stress it enough: safety is at the forefront here too. This has to do with situations that we have also seen in the recent past and investigations into work troughs. At the same time, research has shown that there are indeed situations where asbestos roofs cannot be removed in any other way. That is why I felt that this should temporarily be possible with a no-unless construction. This amendment is now before us for internet consultation. Mr Von Martels asked whether it could be set in motion as soon as possible. As far as I'm concerned, yes. As soon as I get the responses to that, I'll consider whether there's any need for adjustments. The deadline depends on that. I expect to be able to allow this decision to enter into force between 1 January and 1 July 2019. In fact, the only reason why it is 1 July, 1 January or a date in between is the complexity of adaptation of the scheme and publication in the Official Journal. An important aspect, even when it comes to speed, in order to remove asbestos is innovation. Mr Stoffer asked about the monitoring of innovation and whether the point of validation and information was better, as I indicated in my letter on asbestos. Indeed, it appeared that the current procedure was too unclear and that this created a great reluctance in the sector to innovate. As far as I am concerned, this validation and information point should start with very clear procedures, but also with a clear division of roles. That is why I give RIVM and TNO a major role in this, so that the public sector is also a driving force in this. Everything I can do in my contribution to this debate is about the safety of workers and, of course, the speed of the sector and all those who have asbestos roofs, but that priority is with me. Mr Laçin asked me to find out what the government can do to help asbestos victims who struggle with employers. He has tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter. It has been adopted in the Chamber and is asking very strongly to see what can be done. In the letter I mentioned earlier what I can do about it, but I will also state why I cannot go any further, although I can very well share and also acknowledge the feeling of injustice of the people who fight for justice. The allowance is intended for people whose former employer no longer exists or whose employer relies on limitation periods. But a lot of employers do not call on that limitation period when they can. I think that's a very nice thing to do. This means that employers take responsibility. If the allowance is increased, I think there is a high risk that many employers will still have recourse to the limitation period. For then they know the right by their side. That is an additional reason, in addition to what I wrote in the letter, to insist on the current arrangement. Several political groups and also the Secretary of State in her term referred to the capacity of people working in the asbestos sector. Can we all achieve the objective that we all want? I will try to make some sort of satay by giving my contribution a short answer to that. During the period from January 2018 to September 2018, almost as many people have been trained as in the previous year. I think that is a positive development. We see in recent years that many people working in the construction sector went to the asbestos sector because of the crisis in the construction sector. They often go back to construction now. Here is an important task, including for employers, to make the work attractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u171	Before proceeding, Mr Laçin has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u172	I would like to return briefly to the motion adopted and the reaction of the Secretary of State to it. I know what the concession is for. I believe that in the same debate there was also an adopted motion on limitation periods and that it was also investigated in order to allow them to lapse altogether. What matters to me is that we do not let people who have a medical suffering experience a legal agony as well. We often see that the victim has already died when the legal battle is over. That's what we're trying to prevent. We have with our party an asbestos expert who is also a lawyer and may have helped up to 1,500 people sue. That is a huge number of people who, in addition to their medical suffering, have suffered because they have had to sue for a very long time. That's what we were talking about. I hear the Secretary of State shares and acknowledges that feeling, but what is possible to help those people outside the existing TAS regime without having them fight a legal battle? That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u173	What is sometimes the difficult thing about the job that I am allowed to do now is to look not only at what feels right at the moment, but also at what the regulation has to do. The assessment I make is that if we do this, more employers will rely on the idea that they have the right on their side and that the government is at the bar. On the other hand, I see that this is a positive result of Mr Laçin's debate and contribution and of the motion he tabled at the time. It is my responsibility not only to look at what is happening now, but also at what can pull something off. I think there is too much risk that too many employers will still rely on this limitation period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u174	I don't think the statute of limitations has anything to do with my motion. The limitation period is ultimately about the time when a complaint is lodged. Then it's already timed yes or no. My motion is about the government saying, at the time of trial, that we do not want to do this to the victims, we are going to deal with it ourselves and pay the damages, and then we are going to sue ourselves against that employer. That's the difference. That limitation period is not an answer to the question I put in the motion. Those were other motions that were adopted at the time. What can we, as a government, do to hold that employer liable, to claim it ourselves and not to saddle the victims with a legal battle?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u175	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u176	In the end, both motions have to do with each other because of the underlying mechanisms. In any case, my assessment is that I have also expressed this in the letter I have sent that at the time the government takes over this responsibility from an employer who will give many employers no reason to play a proactive role. That is a difficult message, I realize, but it is the balance that I have made. Mr President, I was able to answer the question from many political groups as to whether the number of people working in the sector is sufficient. I indicated that this year many people have been trained, at least up to the months until September as much as in all of 2017. My estimate is that the partial certificate, if made possible after the RIP investigation, also allows roofers to be able to cope with the removal of a single source of asbestos and thus contribute to capacity. With the letter I sent to the Chamber on the asbestos system, I would like to point out that innovations can be promoted. They also contribute to that. The decision on lifting boots, which, as far as I am concerned, can come into effect as soon as possible, can also contribute. Several groups, including the groups of GroenLinks and SP, have expressed their concern about the cowboys, to name but a few. To this end, we have a strong oversight from the inspection SZW and I will inform the Chamber in the third quarter, soon, of the resources which have been added to the inspection SZW under the government agreement and which can play an important role in this. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions put by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u177	I'll take a look at the members. Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u178	Do I have space? Good. Thank you for the answers. I have one more question on capacity. It sounds like we really want to do something about it, but you don't just make these people. Now let's say it works out a little bit and it doesn't, and we'll go straight for that date of the end of 2024. I think that's much better than early 2024. But what if it didn't work out? Let's say there's more going on in construction, because the economy keeps going so well. The people in all the sectors that are a bit competitive are simply not to be dragged into it. My question is: if it doesn't work now, then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u179	I always try to clearly indicate the roles and responsibilities within the subjects I am dealing with here. In this case, it is really up to the market to meet that demand. The number of people entering education shows that there is a positive development there. But I cannot give a guarantee here that the working factor is not the oppressive factor in this discussion. I can't. I hope, however, that my contribution will have shown that I am doing everything I can to remove the regulatory blockades, which, as far as I am concerned, remain at the top of workers' safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u180	I have a follow-up question. We are getting the signal from the market, as I said just now, when your colleague Mr Oomen-Ruijten replied: we are not getting it. But you're getting other signals, I understand. You get the signal: we can do it and we're gonna do it just fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u181	I have just tried to outline the synthesis in these developments by showing that, because of the situation in construction in recent years, many people have gone out of construction and went to the asbestos sector and that now that construction attracts huge numbers, people are going back to construction. I agree with the fact that people are running away. So you have to turn things against that. It is mainly up to the market to lay down attractive working conditions there. My contribution is to eliminate as much as possible anything that pinches, which doesn't pinch because of safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u182	Then I'm stuck with the fact that immediately whether the problem comes into construction or asbestos. And maybe we can think of a third sector. I think that we can conclude with this, and I am not pessimistic at all that this is simply not going to work. That is also what the companies, the asbestos cleaners, tell us. What I don't think you should want is for people to be bought away with a little more pay. Then my question remains: say I'm right and it doesn't work out at the end of 2024, what then?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u183	I understand that the Chamber has had an exchange of views on at least an evaluation so that these kinds of signals can be looked at. I can't say it won't work, but I can't guarantee it will. That doesn't suit me as a government. This is also a matter for the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u184	Then Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd still like to come back to the hoisting story. The proposal now is that the hoist can't be used unless there's no other way. The problem, of course, is that things can always be different. The big problem is that the other options that remain are many times more expensive. That means that also the square meter price for cleaning goes up. Would the Secretary of State still like to see if there's any other way? 'Cause I think that hoist can be used perfectly and it's perfectly safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u186	The assessment based on research is that in about 7% of situations it is not possible to work in a different way than with a lifting box. There are, moreover, studies that say that in almost all cases work can be done without a hoist. I thought I would respond to that pressing question of allowing this, but with a no-unless construction. And why? Because apart from the finances here, as far as I'm concerned, security is number one. And what am I thinking? A recent accident in which someone had a long line and just had a terrible accident at work. Then I think of people who are sure of themselves and not sure of something, because it's just faster and easier. It is a very vulnerable and potentially unsafe way of working, which should be considered a last call. At the same time, I see the desire to achieve good asbestos treatment. I think I've kind of dropped some salomon judgment, I'd almost say. I can't say that working within those criteria for safe we have is an optimal situation. Hence the no, unless. Money is important, but the safety and health of the workers are my number one priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u187	Mr. Van Aalst, very briefly. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u188	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. Safety is always paramount, but the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State about the lines and things like that and about those accidents: total nonsense that this has to do with a hoist. Any other form of asbestos cleaning goes the same way, even with a harness with a line et cetera. If you don't have the right attributes for that, you're gonna get in trouble. So to say the hoist is more dangerous in connection with harnesses, hoists...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u189	Mr. Van Aalst,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u190	I can say from experience that this has nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u191	...do you have another question? No, you didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u192	I don't think the hoist is dangerous in your company, as long as you handle it properly and just take care of your own safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u193	I think we want to make the work in the asbestos sector attractive. At least that fits in with the fact that we are showing that it is safe. That's top priority number one for me. Besides, and I'm hammering on that, I'm making innovations easier. I have now authorised this measure. By the way, there is another internet consultation about it. I'll keep an eye on it. But there are also other opportunities for innovation. I'd like to give you a job for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u194	I thank the Secretary of State. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. We will continue with the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had hoped for a constructive debate. It seemed that way too, but I was amazed at the beginning of the Secretary of State's first term. We were going to move immediately with the date we've been talking about for years and it's just in the explanatory statement. In two minutes, we've come to a year's delay. I also know of a subject on which we have had a debate in the Chamber for a year and with which we are no further away, but I will not go into that further. I do have some questions and some concerns. When it comes to financing this whole task, I hear the Secretary of State say: we are looking at the province, we are looking at the international, we are looking at the energy companies. I feel very little direction. We want to go for this ban together. Then I also think that as a government we have the task of making it possible. It could be a revolver fund or a grant option that we're extending. I therefore have a number of motions. I'll start with the first one, about the financial possibilities. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current subsidy pot for asbestos remodelling is insufficient;]] [[noting that provinces have developed different ways to encourage residents to work on their roofs;]] [[noting that the cleaning of asbestos roofs offers opportunities to make homes more sustainable at the same time;]] [[noting that the current subsidy opportunities for some farmers and private property owners are insufficient;]] [[Whereas sufficient funding is important to meet the deadline of 1 January 2024;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for national funding and to draw on the expertise of the provinces;]] [[calls on the Government to make sufficient financial resources available so that the reorganisation notice can be completed until 2024,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34675-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u196	Then there's a motion on the national survey. The Secretary of State has said a few things about this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is no national overview of asbestos roofs to be renovated;]] [[noting that several provinces have actively started an inventory and that some provinces are lagging behind;]] [[Whereas a national survey with an overall inventory is of great importance for the purpose of identifying and maintaining the declaration after 1 January 2024;]] [[calls on the government to make a national overview of the total number of square metres of roofs to be renovated together with all provinces and to specify this by municipality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that asbestos remodelling must be carried out with care and professionalism;]] [[noting that there is a significant shortage of certified asbestos repairers;]] [[noting that the lack of sufficiently certified sanitizers frees us away for cowboys in the sector and thus also makes cleaning more expensive and less attractive;]] [[Whereas having sufficiently certified cleaners is of great importance to meet the deadline of 1 January 2024;]] [[calls on the government to talk to the sector and to draw up a plan so that more companies and sanitators can work on the cleaning of the asbestos roofs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Kröger and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34675-15]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Kröger and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34675-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u197	Finally, Mr President, enforcement. Then I'm talking about enforcement after the ban comes into force. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities must maintain the ban on asbestos roofs after 1 January 2024;]] [[noting that this is an additional task for municipalities;]] [[noting that the performance of this task may require additional resources and capacity;]] [[Whereas enforcement is of great importance after 1 January 2024;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, to come up with an enforceable plan to ensure enforcement after 1 January 2024,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Kröger and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34675-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u198	I'm at my last ten seconds, Mr. Chairman. I hope that we will hold on to the ambition and that we will not let go of all kinds of deadlines that we have had for a long time. I am particularly looking at Members of Parliament, not just at the Secretary of State. Let's focus on how we're gonna make it to January 1, 2024 and let's not start pushing data already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u199	Thank you. I call Mr Ziengs of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer said that he hoped that the two Secretary of State would speak wise and warm words. I also heard them in the reply. In my contribution, I indicated that health is not to be mocked and safety must always be paramount. That also came back in the answer every time. I think those are the most important points that you have to bring up every time. It is a constructive debate, Mr President. I welcome the commitments made by the Secretary of State. Nevertheless, I have two motions. Perhaps the response or appreciation of the motions will give us an opportunity to withdraw them, but we are going to file them anyway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet is applying an asbestos roof ban from 2024;]] [[noting that the objective of the Cabinet is that in 2024 all asbestos roofs were renovated in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas it is unclear when the ban will enter into force in 2024;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce the ban on asbestos roofs on 31 December 2024,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ziengs and Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34675-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u201	Then I'll come to the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in order to achieve the objective of removing all asbestos roofs by 2024, insufficient companies and workers may be available;]] [[Whereas making it possible for other companies, in addition to those already certified, to remove asbestos, can provide a solution to this problem;]] [[calls on the Government to explore the possibility of simpler certification for other companies in response to the findings of the RIP investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ziegs and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34675-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u202	Thank you, Mr. Seengs. There's one more question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u203	I still have a question about that year's postponement, which has now suddenly come to the table. That wasn't there before. We've been talking about January 1st all along. When did Mr Ziegs come up with the idea that it would be a good idea to postpone the ban on asbestos roofs for a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u204	In fact, Mrs Kröger is asking the same question as in the first input. When you're preparing to deal with a law, you go through the pieces and you look at what's been contributed. That will apply to every Member of Parliament. At that time, I noted that the law did not specifically mention that date. There is a task and problems are foreseen. That means that you do not have to extend that law again, as Mrs Kröger says. It means you're investigating the possibility of taking that space within the law. That is why I tabled this motion together with Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u205	Mrs Kröger, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u206	There's no date in the law. The explanatory statement clearly states the ambition and the ruling of 1 January 2024. Mr Ziesgs, on behalf of the VVD, together with the CDA, now decides to allow dangerous asbestos roofs for another year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u207	I believe that the cabinet has expressed the ambition that the roofs should be asbestos-free by 2024. That is what I indicated in my first contribution. I think that is what we are going to achieve: 2024 and not 1 January 2024, but in 2024. Then there is also December 31, 2024.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u208	I'm going to read it out, and Mr Ziengs will know what we're talking about. "The Cabinet intends to adopt, pursuant to Article 9.2.2.1 Wm, an AMvB which prohibits the holding of an asbestos roof from 1 January 2024." What's unclear about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u209	I have made it quite clear that the law itself has the possibility of doing so in 2024 and that it does not necessarily need to be kept on 1 January. I have also indicated that there is an enormous task. Because of the talk-in reactions but also because of the reactions that come to us, the image is created that you have to call a realistic period. Instead of postponing it, we give that possibility within the law and use the year 2024 to repeat that objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u210	It's gonna be a bit of a repeat of moves, Mr. Laçin, so very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u211	Yes, very briefly. That task remains with a year's delay, because that is just what it is. It's not like we're gonna make it easy all of a sudden. It is a pity that the VVD departs without any explanation or argument from what we have agreed and that the Secretary of State also takes an advance on that. I don't think that's a way of debating it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u212	I am glad that at least we have the same objective: to ensure that we achieve that goal. We just disagree about that one year. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u213	Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u214	Mr President, thank you very much. I am very concerned about that year's delay. I think it would be a very bad signal if we did. I regret that this motion has been tabled. I am also sorry that the Secretary of State actually indicated at the beginning of the debate that she would like to offer that space. I think it is very important to give a strong signal now about an asbestos roof ban, especially since it has been going on for such an incredible time and we have all seen it coming. There are my concerns: on the one hand we hear the story that there is too little money, too little direction and too little clarity about how big the task is. It is a lot of local policy, on which the Secretary of State has too little overview. That is not the conclusion of a more ambitious policy, but of a year's delay. I find that a worrying development. I've also heard some positive things. The Secretary of State does see opportunities to link this with sustainability and renovations to save energy. I have a motion on that, too. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is in favour of the removal of asbestos roofs from homes, factories, barns and stables;]] [[Whereas, in addition to costs, this also offers opportunities for further sustainability by providing the new roofs with better insulation and/or solar panels;]] [[calls on the government to examine how these sustainable co-connection opportunities can be promoted, so that there is also a need for additional burdens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34675-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u215	I'm getting varying signals from the Secretary of State about the risk of asbestos dump in nature. However, the report on the law identified it as a real risk. The debate is now underestimating the risk. I also do not see any specific attention being paid to this problem in the ILT multiannual plan. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the forthcoming clean-up notice for asbestos roofs requires a high level of asbestos processing and that this entails costs;]] [[Whereas it is likely that this will lead to more illegal dumping of asbestos and construction waste contaminated with asbestos;]] [[Calls on the Government to monitor the number of incidents of illegal asbestos landfills and to inform the Court of Justice of this every year;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a plan to combat the illegal dumping of asbestos effectively,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Laçin and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34675-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u216	In the response of the Secretary of State to my interruption on this subject, it was really about that very private house-garden and kitchen ash waste. So this is also about asbestos remodelling by less bona fide companies. Finally, the final motion. Perhaps the Secretary of State will say that it is unnecessary. It is a question in my contribution and in Mr Stoffer's. The Secretary of State has already said something about this in response to Mrs Van Eijs. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the law allows individuals to remove small amounts of asbestos themselves;]] [[Whereas these small quantities should also be handled neatly and safely;]] [[calls on the Government to ask municipalities to allow private individuals to offer such small amounts of asbestos free of charge to the municipal environmental street,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Stoffer, Mr Laçin and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34675-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u218	Thank you. I call Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u219	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank both Secretary of State for their clear answers. As I have just said, asbestos is an abbreviation of 'all rehabilitations need an incentive allowance'. I really mean that, because without any kind of support, it is not realistic to assume that we are going to achieve this enormous restructuring task. I have two motions, in addition to the amendment I have tabled. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas certain individuals and businesses are unable to finance the renovation of their asbestos roof because they do not have the resources themselves and cannot borrow them;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to ensure that non-supportive owners are not left with uninsurable asbestos roofs;]] [[calls on the Government to make an additional effort, in consultation with local and regional authorities, to establish a national asbestos fund for the owners of asbestos roofs who cannot finance rehabilitation, and to inform the Court of Justice before Christmas this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr von Martels and Mr Ziengs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34675-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u220	The second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas certain improvements, such as the rehabilitation of slate containing asbestos, are very costly;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, in consultation with the public authorities and other stakeholders, whether a cheaper approach to asbestos-containing slates is possible and how the cost of clean-up for owners can be made affordable and how these owners can be cared for,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr von Martels and Mr Ziengs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34675-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u221	Mr President, thank you. I closed my first term with the question: are these two Secretary of State cool and cold or warm and wise? I agree with Mr Ziegs that this debate has been constructive and has spoken in a warm and warm manner and has shown commitment to this dossier. That it's a difficult file, we've seen each other here tonight. Everyone has the same wish, the same endgame in mind, but the question is: how quickly can that be reached? We differ a little bit about that, but I think it is very nice that this period has been postponed at least in this debate, that not only the sound of the Chamber has been listened to, but also the sound that lies behind it in society and which is also interpreted by the Chamber. I have three points to make very briefly. Firstly, innovation is very important in order to achieve this task. I've heard good things about that. When I hear how you want to steer that and when I hear that TNO, for example, is involved, I think: I really have faith in that right now. I think that's gonna work out. I still have some doubts about the number of employees that can work in this area. But if I divide that 80 million by the 14 million that we can hopefully put away this year, then it's just going to be about it. I am therefore going to consider, over the next few days, whether I am going to accept my own amendments, or whether I am going to agree with what Mr von Martels and Ziengs have come up with: that one year more, which you have already promised to do, with evaluation. I'm gonna think about it. I think I have until Tuesday to really judge that. For now, I'm gonna hold onto it. Then the finances. When I hear it all like that, I think you're going to take steps on that too. I think that is very good, because that really is a huge crux, in the sense of: is it going to work or not? A number of motions have been tabled. I'm gonna weigh it up for the next few days. I myself have an extra one, so I would like to submit it. She's gonna go like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at least 5% to 10% of the building owners concerned have insufficient capacity to finance the renovation of asbestos roofs, especially in the agricultural sector;]] [[believes that building owners should be prevented from being forced to clean up and dispose of asbestos in an illegal and unsafe manner due to the imminent ban;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with municipalities and provinces, to come up with sufficient national financial arrangements to support building owners, especially those with limited financial capacity, in the cleaning of asbestos roofs;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with municipalities and provinces, to reduce the cost of landfilling asbestos and to include the waste levy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34675-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u222	Mr Van Aalst has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by welcoming the Secretary of State's commitment that 31-12-2024 is in any case regulated. I'm happy about that. I still have my doubts as to whether we're going to make it, but at least we have a commitment. I'm happy about that. The revolving funds came along for a while. About that and about what that does to all people, including those who have already invested a lot of money in renovating their roof, the PVV has doubts. We're gonna wait and see. Just a little bit back on the hoist. We regret that the lifting tank remains an exception, through the no, unless regulation. That actually just means that the hoisting ban is maintained. That is a pity, because that will mean that the cleaning process will take longer rather than faster. I still have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the removal of an asbestos roof always entails health risks;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that asbestos roofs equal to and less than 35m are cleaned only by certified cleaners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34675-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u224	I have a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the short term, the Government intends to clean up the asbestos roofs which pose a direct threat to public health;]] [[calls on the Government to take risk-driven measures to complete the clean-up notice for asbestos roofs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34675-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u225	Mr. Chairman. As has already been said on the 35m motion: the PVV makes no distinction between harmful or non-harmful asbestos. As far as I'm concerned, the Secretary of State should do the same. We're hoping for a positive verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u226	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the Secretary of State has indicated that she will consult with the Association of Dutch Municipalities to encourage municipalities to accept small amounts of asbestos free of charge, so as to minimise dumping. We really want to challenge the Secretary of State to stay sharp on this dumping and to take the concerns of State forestry seriously. I hope the Secretary of State can state that she's gonna be watching this closely. It is a good thing that the Secretary of State says that she wants to encourage the circular processing of asbestos and use tools to reduce the uneconomic summit. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that virtually all asbestos that is disposed of in the event of clean-up is deposited in special landfills;]] [[Whereas a further ban on roofs containing asbestos and the mandatory clean-up of land contaminated with asbestos will increase asbestos waste;]] [[Whereas there are, or are in the process of developing, other methods of processing which render asbestos harmless;]] [[Whereas the government's policy is to combat landfilling as much as possible and to achieve a circular economy;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to ensure that as much asbestos can be processed as possible into a useful raw material and to inform the Court of Justice thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34675-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u228	A brief question, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u229	I am very pleased that my colleague, Mr Van Eijs, shares my concerns about dumping asbestos into nature, as well as the concerns of State forest management. I hope, therefore, that she will support and perhaps co-sign the motion that we have tabled on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u230	That wasn't a question. What do you think, Mrs. Van Eijs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u231	Would you like that, Mrs Van Eijs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u232	Well, I'm very interested in what such a plan of approach would mean. So I do not have the opportunity at this time to look at exactly what municipalities could do about it, but I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to shed some light on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u233	Let me ask you a quick question about the motion. Mrs Van Eijs' motion calls for asbestos to be reused. My image is that it is now wrapped in plastic and actually put in the ground to put it away. I am not really getting a picture of exactly how to reuse a substance harmful to health. Can Mrs Van Eijs take us a little bit more into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u234	I hope this will not become too technical, but methods have been developed to defuse asbestos, for example, under high pressure or acid. As far as we are concerned, this is preferable to putting it away, because it can always be harmful. I think it would be better to ensure, for example, that it can be used as a raw material for cement, which is now possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u235	Thank you. I understand that the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment can respond directly. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've counted two motions within my wallet. First of all, there is Mr Laçin's motion. This motion asks the government to talk to the sector and to make a plan so that more companies and sanitators can get started. I had hoped to indicate in my contribution what plans in the asbestos letter I take away bumps in order to get to work quickly. But it is primarily the responsibility of the market to develop this and make a plan, and not ours as a government. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u237	What number is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u238	The motion in part No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u239	Okay. A brief response from Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u240	A brief question, even, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u241	Yeah, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u242	We want it all off the roof. We all want that ban. Then I think we have a role to play in this. I am not saying that this plan should be written by the Secretary of State, but that we should work together with the sector to at least explore the possibilities to ensure that more repairers and businesses can get started. That is the question that lies ahead: not to write the plan itself, but to start that conversation together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u243	I'll read it in the motion. In any case, I can say to Mr Laçin that we have been sitting together with the sector in width from the point of view of the letter, and we have also said: let us continue with these kinds of tables, because here we can discuss things with each other. But I also had an exchange of views with Mr Stoffer in the little debate on the interruption that I cannot give any guarantee on this. I'll read in the motion that I have to make that plan. So I will act in the spirit of this interruption; I can promise you that. But making a plan and sketching the idea that we can also give that guarantee, I find risky. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u244	Then I suggest you move on. I'm sorry, Mr. Laçin. I'm very strict tonight. Proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u245	Mr. Chairman. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 19. In his speech, Mr Ziengs referred to the roofers as well. I read the motion more broadly in that sense. If I could read her like that, I'd be positive about this. I have already written a number of things about this in my letter. Therefore, TNO will also conduct research into exposure to asbestos fibres. I do need the results of the investigation before I can take any further steps. That certainly applies to final steps. I'd like to highlight that clearly. But the first results are expected to be available early next year. Then I can come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u246	And the verdict is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u247	Then she's "judge room."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u248	Okay. Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management. The final motions are coming up now. Maybe you can start with the motions you do have. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u249	Mr President, if you will allow me to take a final look at those answers in a moment, I will indeed begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u250	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u251	Mr. Chairman. First of all, Mr Laçin's motion on item No. 14. He's actually asking me for extra funding. I am not going to continue with the subsidy, but to create another funding option. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u252	A brief question from Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u253	The motion doesn't say "grant." It says "financial possibilities." Now the Secretary of State says that she is not going to do so, but in the two requests I make in the motion, there is not a single word 'grant'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u254	It is quite literally stated in the statement that the current possibilities for subsidies are insufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u255	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u256	And so I'm not going to go through with the funding possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u257	Neither is the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u258	No, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u259	No, but Mr Laçin says that in no place...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u260	I'm just telling you...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u261	Mr. Laçin!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u262	Mr. Laçin says there's no "grant" in any place. That's what this motion speaks of. It's part of the request he made. Furthermore, the motion concerns the willingness to come up with a nationwide, broad system. I have already promised this on several occasions in the debate. So if the motion is about the willingness to provide a nationwide covering system, which we have discussed extensively with each other and which is part of the plans, then it is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u263	Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u264	So either it's a grant and then I won't do it, or it's the nationwide cover story and then it's already been promised. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the motion for a resolution, Laçin c.s. in piece No. 15. It calls for something that I believe we are already close to each other, namely the proper organisation of the inventory in consultation. I could leave the judgment to the Chamber, provided that Mr Laçin could replace the date in the motion with 'after the ban'. That date is precisely part of a conversation in your Chamber itself. If Mr Laçin is prepared, in this motion, to replace the words 'after 1 January 2024' with the words 'after the ban', the motion is neutral on that point and I could leave the motion to the House's judgement. I must point out that, of course, I have to talk to the local authorities about this, but I see that as an appeal, a request to do so, and I am happy to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u265	I would very much like to leave 1 January 2024" in, but I find that is not going to work. So I'm willing to make the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u266	It's beautiful. Then I will try to include this point in the letter at the beginning of 2019. Thank you for the constructive attitude on this point. The motion in part No. 16 has been answered by the Secretary of State of SZW. Then we come to the motion-Laçin c.s. in piece No. 17, on ensuring enforcement in conjunction with the VNG. We all have an interest in that. Here again, I would like to say 'after the ban' instead of 'after 1 January 2024'. If that date could be adjusted in this way, I could take this into account as part of the programmed approach and I could also leave this motion to the House's discretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u267	Mr Laçin nods of yes. Is that correct, Mr. Laçin?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u268	Here too, I'll adjust it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u269	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u270	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u271	I have a short question because the Secretary of State for the previous story, however, did not have any funding. I see that the observation in this motion calls for resources. Are there any resources available for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u272	No, it doesn't say that. It states that a task may require resources and capacity. But the motion does not request additional resources. The motion merely notes that additional resources may be needed. It is not a request for additional resources to be made available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u273	No, okay. So you basically don't have any resources available...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u274	I'm not reading this as a request to make additional resources available, no. That's what I'm saying for clarity. Mr. Chairman. On the Zieggens/Von Martels motion in part No. 18 I think we've exchanged enough. I think it is important for the Chamber to give its opinion on this, so I leave it to the Chamber to decide. And then I'll process it in the AMvB, because that's only when we really set the date and we see if the intention... Well, there's been enough exchange. The motion in part No. 19 has been answered by the Secretary of State. Then I will go to the Kröger/Von Martels motion on part No. 20, on investigating sustainable co-connection opportunities. Of course, I have already said a few things about this, but I think it is important that we put our finger on everything that we think is important here. I am prepared to include this in the programmed approach and report in 2019 on what the motion requires. Then I can also leave the motion to the Court's judgment. Mr. Chairman. Then the Kröger c.s. motion. in piece No. 21, about dumping. Illegal landfill is, of course, prohibited and is being dealt with. We're not going to draw up a special plan on this point. Mrs Kröger also asks us to keep the finger on the wrist and I can promise her that I will at least do so. Then I advise against this motion, but I will tell her that I will keep my finger on the wrist and keep an eye on whether it will not be a problem for which we should have extra attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u275	Brief question, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u276	A finger from the Secretary of State on the wrist is, of course, always very good when it comes to implementing policies. But of course it is a question of informing the Chamber on this, as it is a concern that lives in State Forests and many local authorities. That's the nature of the motion. If the Secretary of State takes over the motion, that's great.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u277	The motion for a resolution is a little too specific for me. I would like to say to Mrs Kröger that we are keeping our finger on the pulse and that I will let the Chamber know what temperature we are measuring there. Then the motion to part No. 22 on the free environmental streets for private individuals. I said something about that myself. I must advise against this motion, but in order to prevent me from saying that this is literally what I said, I would ask Mrs Kröger to hold the motion. Since this is what the congregations are about, I cannot undertake it on their behalf. What if it turns out none of this works anyway? What if I have to report that? I said I'd talk to the congregations about that. I'll report that back, too, so you might want to hold this motion until you've had that call back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u278	Mrs Kröger, if you would like to do so now, I give you the floor. You can have it on Tuesday, but I saw you nod yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u279	Because of the speed, I thought a nod would suffice. I'm holding my motion. When does the Secretary of State expect to have a look at the talks with the municipalities? When will she know if this will lead to a result?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u280	Let me hope that I can take that with me in the letter of January. I'm just gonna say this without too much backspoke. But we're gonna work for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u281	At the request of Mrs Kröger, I propose her motion for a resolution (34675, No. 22), as last amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of 19 December 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to selfemployed persons That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u282	Short question. I'm assuming this is already the case, so this can already be offered for free, including free plastic et cetera. I don't think it's any different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u283	I did say that. I know it is the case in many municipalities, but the question is whether it is the case in all municipalities. I'm afraid to say that with 100% certainty. That's why I took a small blow to the arm. I did indeed interpret Mrs Van Eijs's request in this way. We would like to make this possible. But that is up to the municipalities, and I do not think that I can undertake it on behalf of the municipalities. I would like to return to that in the letter of January. Now I have to take a look, because I come to a number of motions that I had not yet looked at. Mr von Martels and Mr Ziengs asked the government in the motion for a resolution on item No. 23 to make an additional effort to arrive at a national asbestos fund in consultation with local authorities and SVn and to inform the Chamber thereof. A fund is instantly a very specific form, but I said that I absolutely go into consultation. I will also take into account the other suggestions put forward by Mr Ziengs. I ask the Chamber to hold this motion until January 2019. Then I'll brief you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u284	Mr. Von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u285	Whether Mr von Martels should say that I can take the word 'asbestos fund' up to the point that this is a national funding instrument. A fund can be based on all kinds of criteria which are specific to a fund and which may be different from an instrument. If you say that's why you're here and not specifically about an asbestos fund, that gives me more room. Then I could leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u286	I agree. That's a good proposal, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u287	So you agree with the last interpretation of the Secretary of State. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u288	Then the point of the slate. The motion in part No. 24 asks the government to investigate whether a cheaper approach is possible. I would actually ask Mr von Martels and Mr Ziengs to take this motion as well. I would like to share with the Chamber the information from Lelystad, for example. Then you can see the best practices. This motion calls for additional action to be taken immediately. I quite rightly think that these slates are a special focus of the Chamber, but let us now see if sharing best practices leads to additional reductions. How can the existing instruments also provide a solution for this group? We need to put together the thermometer in time to see if anything else is needed. I would therefore ask that this motion be retained.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u289	Now I'm very doubting, because I don't quite get it. The intention expressed in this motion is actually the same as you have just expressed in your reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u290	Well, let me put it this way. I see this motion as a request for a specific tailor-made approach for the slates. I would think that too early now, because we are now letting them join in the instruments we have and we are going to share the best practices of the slates in Lelystad. If there is a situation in which it is not sufficiently affordable or accessible, then we can tighten it up with each other at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u291	Mr. von Martels, you have until Tuesday before the votes, but if you do not hold this motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u292	I'm not holding up the motion at the moment, but I'm gonna think about it for a while. I do need a little time to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u293	But if Mr von Martels does not hold the motion, what is the verdict? Is that the same thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u294	Let me put it this way: I would ask Mr von Martels to hold the motion for a moment. Then we can discuss the wording of the motion. I can't think of that right now. Maybe it's possible to process the phasering I have in mind a little bit more in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u295	That's what I'm gonna be using in the next few days. So at this point I'm not holding the motion yet, but the moment may yet come...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u296	But if you don't hold the motion, I'm gonna have to pass judgment. If you keep the motion now, you can always put it to the vote at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u297	Well, that's fine, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u298	At the request of Mr von Martels, I propose his motion (34675, No. 24). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u299	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 25 which asks me to reduce the cost of landfilling asbestos and also to take the waste tax with me. I already told you I can't do that right now. There's no cover for that either. So I have to discourage this motion. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 26 on the asbestos roofs equal to and less than 35 m only by certified sanitators. We have also discussed this in detail. Personally, I want to continue to be able to do it with careful measures when it comes to something very small. So I'm deceiving the motion. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 27 to work risk-driven. I believe that this actually slows down and that we should, above all, get to work quickly with all the rooftops. So I understand his intention and I also know that if a constructive idea was meant to be, but I don't think it has that effect. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Then there is a motion by Mrs Van Eijs on item No. 28, which calls on the government to examine how we can ultimately actually defuse as much asbestos as possible and perhaps even use it in a new way. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u300	There were also four amendments. Is that right? Or have they already been judged?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u301	I have not yet received the opinions on the amendments. So I'd like to have a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u302	I have a brief question for the Secretary of State. We're talking about the AMvB coming up. Do you know when it's coming? That question can also be answered in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u303	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u304	Then we wait for a moment and I suspend briefly for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u305	I will reopen the meeting and give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Four amendments have been tabled. The amendment in part No. 10 of Mr von Martels and Mr Ziengs asked the Minister to send a report to the Chamber on the progress of implementation by 1 January 2022 at the latest. That is exactly when we can determine together whether there are bottlenecks and whether additional measures are needed to achieve the aim of the ban. We must be able to take these additional measures in good time and I can therefore leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. It's not about whether we're gonna make it, but we're gonna make it. It is important to identify possible bottlenecks with each other in good time. Then there is the amendment to item No. 11 by Mr Stoffer. This requires working on the basis of risk categories. I think we switched that with each other. It does not seem to me to be the right way forward, and I therefore advise against this amendment. The same applies to Amendment No 2. 12, that speaks of a delay until 2026. We have also changed that. I don't recommend the amendment. Then there is the amendment to item No. 13. It combines the ban on asbestos roofs with sufficient disposal capacity and affordability. That too has been widely exchanged in the debate. I also advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u307	A brief question on Mrs Kröger's amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u308	I am concerned about the first amendment. I want that to be very clear. The Secretary of State says that the purpose of the amendment as far as it is concerned is not to address the date laid down in the law or in the AMvB. It is purely a question of looking at whether additional policies are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u309	This is about the question of how we're gonna make it and not about whether we're gonna make it. I think it is important that we take stock in good time of whether there are any bottlenecks that we really need to focus on. That is why it is good that this report will be produced in 2021. Such a ban is a ban, but we must ensure that people have an action perspective. We're putting a lot of things in motion right now. I think it is extremely important that we check in good time at some point to see whether additional measures are needed in order to achieve that ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u310	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u311	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment and the Members of Parliament. We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I'm suspending the meeting until 8:00.
