ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u1	Let us now turn to Mr Laçin's question, on behalf of the SP Group, to the Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State, whom I would also like to welcome, about the Commission for the Environment. Lelystad Airport. I call Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just saying to the Minister in passing: here we are again. Last week there were also oral questions on Schiphol and aviation. Today we're talking about Lelystad. Around the expansion of Lelystad Airport, and therefore also the growth of Schiphol Airport, countless mistakes have been made and incidents have been made. Over and over again, it has been neighbors and action groups who have worked through piles of paper and have shown those mistakes. After the previous environmental impact assessment for Lelystad Airport was swept off the table by expertise and determination of local residents, the improved report is currently being reviewed by the Committee. So the committee has already gone down quite a bit and is now in a bad light for the second time because of shared interests. On 6 April, we read in the Stentor that the committee was once again compromised by possible shared interests, because the chairman of the committee and the summit of Schiphol worked together at Shell. After it became known that Dick Benschop would become the new CEO of Schiphol, this was discussed within the working group. The conclusion has been that there has never been intensive cooperation. My first question to the Minister is whether she was aware of this consideration and this conclusion. If so, why wasn't it communicated to the Chamber? The Minister has quite rightly said that it is her main task to restore confidence around the course of events at Schiphol and Lelystad Airport. The committee must be able to function independently and impartially. There must be no doubt about that. Will the Minister, as these developments take place, thank these committee members kindly and send them off the rails? And is she going to appoint a club of people who have no interest in expanding Lelystad Airport and thus growth at Schiphol Airport?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can actually give a very brief answer to Mr Laçin. He asked the question: was the Minister informed and, if not, why did she not inform us? The independent Commission for the M.e.r. The word "independent" is even in their name, I stress but for a moment on its website has a protocol for how it guarantees that independence. They tested all participants, both at the start of the re-evaluation of this new EIA project. They did so again when it became known that Mr Benschop will be the successor of Mr Nijhuis at Schiphol. They have both seen no reason to assume either conflict of interest or a sign of conflict of interest. That's all I have to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you for that answer, but I can't do very much with it, I must say. This is not just my question, but a question that many people have on this dossier. The Minister himself knows that very well. Around the file- Lelystad Airport and the growth at Schiphol Airport there have been a lot of incidents and errors, also in relation to the EIA. It was the action groups and the neighbors who brought this up all the time. No one has ever been actively communicated from the Commission or the Ministry to all stakeholders: the Chamber and the thousands of people who follow this dossier closely. This answer does and says very little. I'm surprised. The conclusion is already that this cabinet has the intention that Lelystad Airport needs to grow and expand, so that Schiphol is also given full space. Let's make the list. The new director of Schiphol, Mr Benschop, is from Shell. The CFO of Schiphol is from Shell. The Minister of Finance, the largest shareholder, comes from Shell. The Minister for Climate and Climate Policy is aware that aviation is held outside the Paris climate agreements, and Shell is also responsible. Finally, the chairman of the working group to assess the report on the environmental impact, you can already guess, Mr Shell, who is also from Shell.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. It has a tail like a duck, it waddles like a duck, it quacks like a duck, i.e. the shared interests are obvious here. Despite a protocol that's on the website and a test of our own from the EIA, we know what this has brought about to this day.It remains a question for the Minister whether she will thank these people from the committee and send them off and appoint a club people who have no interest in the growth of Lelystad and therefore Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u7	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u8	I have repeatedly said that Mr Laçin was right when he regretted that mistakes had been made in the past, including in this EIA report, and said that it was bad that this was discovered by a citizen. I've done everything I can to correct those mistakes. That independent commission for the m.e.r. is now also in the process of involving the residents' committee and an additional consultancy firm, everything and everyone else, in order to assess that. That's what they're doing. That protocol looks solid. You can also view this on their website. I have no reason to doubt the independence of the Commission for the m.e.r. or that it would not have done enough at the start of this process, because I think it has done very nicely. At the time when it became clear that Mr Benschop would be the successor, it has once again reviewed this. This has not led to any other conclusions, so I see no reason for the Commission's independence for the m.e.r. Doubtful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you. You can't do this anymore, Mr. Laçin. Then I will go to Mr Van Raan, on behalf of the Animal Party. I know, but those are the rules of the game. I'm sure Mr. Laçin will come back to this point somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr President. We're just picking up the road. If in doubt do not do so, that is included in the protocol. In 2014, when the new President was appointed, with the approval of the Council of Ministers, that protocol was probably carefully looked at. There's something in there about conflict of interest. Now Shell isn't the most obvious ex-employer you can choose, if you're looking for a chairman for the Environmental Impact Assessment Board. The question that then reveals itself, if you combine those two things: Shell's past,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u11	What's the question, Mr. Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u12	Are the considerations made by the Council of Ministers,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u13	The Minister. No, Mr. Van Raan, you already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u14	...to make that appointment in case of doubt, public?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u15	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr. Chairman. The independent Commission for the M.e.r. has a spokesperson of his own. There you can ask for further details. I do not share Mr Van Raan's view that people who have ever worked at Shell could not get anywhere else. I don't think that's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u17	Second supplementary question: Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u18	Second supplementary question. That last remark really doesn't make any sense, because that's not the point at all, that if you've ever worked at Shell, you'll never be able to work anywhere else. That's bullshit. I'd like the Minister to take that back, because that's not what I'm saying. She says that the E.R. has an advisor himself, but this is about the Council of Ministers. The question is whether it is possible to see the considerations of the Council of Ministers, because that is what we would like to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u19	As Mr Van Raan knows, the minutes of the Council of Ministers will not be public for a very long time and therefore not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mr President, I think you also noticed that I was not ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u21	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u22	So I'm gonna keep going. Actually, I want to finish my term here. Time and time again, neighbors have to make sure that mistakes are corrected. Over and over again, this minister assures that she will do everything in her power to restore confidence. And over and over again it appears that she is not there for the residents, but only for the interests of Schiphol. Once again, I would like to make the reasonable proposal to come up with a club of people who have no connection to Schiphol, not even through their past at Shell. The Minister's just gonna pull this over. Then we know and, I think, the viewers...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u23	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u24	... where this minister's priority is. That is not with those living around, but with the interests of Schiphol and the growth of aviation. For the last time, the question to this Minister: what is she going to do to restore confidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u25	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u26	The answer to that can be very brief. I'm gonna keep going down the road. This means as much transparency as possible, involving independent people, involving residents, entering the region and talking to everyone. Of course, that includes your room. I'd love to go through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u27	I hope the Minister will see that the fuss over the former employer of the President of the Commission for the m.e.r. should really be seen in the light of the lack of trust at the moment among residents in the processes around Lelystad. Then the follow-up question remains what the Minister will do to restore confidence, especially in relation to that EIA. Your ministry is currently responsible for both the EIA and the competent authority. What about the relationship with Schiphol? We would very much like a written reply on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u28	There's every Tuesday discussion about it. It applies not only to you, but also to Mr Van Raan. The supplementary questions should simply be brief. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u29	In any case, I will try to reply briefly. I can reassure you about the division of office at the Ministry. It's a different board. The management of the environment is governed by the Secretary of State. He looks at this story independently of the team of the Aviation Directorate. Once again, I can only confirm what I have always said: I have no reason to doubt the independence of the independent Commission for the Environmental Impact Assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u30	Second supplementary question, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u31	If so, the Minister could give a written overview of the various processes surrounding the establishment of this EIA, including both the role of the Ministry and of Schiphol, Lelystad Airport, the Examination Offices and the Commission for Europe.? Preferably in an organogram, so it's perfectly clear who talked about what when.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u32	I thought Mrs Kröger had that all figured out. There's gonna be another letter coming your way anyway. So, if you still need it, I would like to assure you that, for that debate that we are probably going to have somewhere in May, we will put it in an organogram, or whatever you want, for a moment. That's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u33	Mr Kuzu, on behalf of Mr Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u34	That's right. Out of collegiality and indeed in addition to Mr Van Raan's question. The Minister states that she has no reason to doubt the independence of the appointment of the chairman of the committee. Well, there is. Then it is also common practice in this Chamber to share in confidence the considerations which led to the appointment of that committee chairman. I ask the Minister whether it is possible to see in confidence what has led to the appointment of this President of the Commission for the m.e.r.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u35	This chairman has not been recently appointed. So I see no reason why suddenly a decision of the previous cabinet should be made confidential again. I do not see any reason for this, especially as a result of the incident you are now describing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u36	Thank you. Let us now turn to Mr Ronnes' last question, on behalf of the CDA.
