ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u1	The next item is the Amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure establishing the right to protection of sources in the event of free news garage, Section 34032. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security to section K.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u2	I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I would first like to congratulate the Minister. Today, he shows that justice is at the forefront of his ministry, because after many, many years, we are finally talking again today about the protection of journalists' sources. After last week's debate on other matters that fell out of the department, I am glad that we can talk today about this very old 2013 bill. After all, this bill brings significant improvements in the protection of sources. Now that the Minister has worked so hard on it, I have good hope that the remaining questions from my group can be answered today. The law seems to me to be a good step forward, but here and there I still see room for some tightening up and in any case I need more insight into the correct interpretation of the law. Let me begin with the value of this law. The basis is actually three convictions of the Netherlands by the European Court of Human Rights. In 2007 in the case of Voskuil against the Netherlands, the Netherlands turned out to have wrongly taken a journalist hostage to find out the identity of his source. In 2010 in Sanoma's case against the Netherlands, the Court ruled that the Netherlands had wrongly requested photos taken by a journalist under the promise of anonymity to the participants in a street race. In 2010 in De Telegraaf's case, the Court ruled that the AIVD had been out of line by tapping journalists without prior authorisation from a judge or other independent authority. The possibilities offered by our law to investigation and intelligence services therefore do not always appear to have been properly applied. If the European Court of Human Rights finds that a number of times, it is in my opinion reasonable to change the law accordingly. For example, we emphasise that we stand for journalistic freedoms. After all, journalists play an important role in our democratic rule of law. They gather news and control the rulers. This creates counterpower and well-informed voters who in turn can reward or pay off their political representatives in elections. Without sources, however, journalists would be powerless. After all, nobody likes to tell bad news about themselves. So you need people to expose wrongdoings and expose them. That's the basis for journalism that's really about something. As the proverb says, you will forgive me in English, Chairman: "Journalism is printing what someone else doesn't want printed: everything else is public relations." So the government should not be able to figure out who a journalist was talking to after he or she publishes about a corruption scandal or a criminal. There is a danger that sources will be deterred. At the same time, it is sometimes necessary to be able to break that protection. Investigation interests or the importance of national security may require this. We must then be sure that this balance is being measured with integrity and care. Unfortunately, where we in the Netherlands can and can expect police and public prosecutors to act neatly, this is not the case everywhere. The Netherlands is fifth in the World Press Freedom Index. That's a nice score, but in many countries things are much worse. In Turkey and Russia there is hardly any free press left, and in Hungary and Poland freedoms are decreasing. These are all countries which are members of the Council of Europe and which fall within the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice. All countries that are increasingly turning away from our free democratic rule of law. That is why I consider this bill to be important. It sends a signal that we in the Netherlands take the human rights court in Strasbourg seriously and that we take the protection of our journalistic sources seriously and we are prepared to listen and improve ourselves. Mr. Chairman. I now turn to the content of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u4	Many commendable words, and I also think that the SP and D66 will agree on this law tonight. You say nice things about the purpose of the law, such as the importance of source protection and taking the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights seriously. The purpose of this law, the legal writing down for journalists of the protection of sources and the extension of the right to change, is nice, but at the same time we know that there will soon be a referendum on the drag law and intelligence services. You also mentioned the intelligence services. Now the source protection we want to regulate with this law is well regulated for the investigation services, but on the other hand the door will be open to the intelligence and security services, where sources can be revealed if they get into the towing network. Does D66 recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u5	As Mr Van Nispen knows, my group has worked hard to settle this point in the debate on the Wiv. Amendments have also been tabled on this subject, but unfortunately they did not make it. The reality is that that bill has been passed. In the coalition agreement, D66 has been able to ensure that, on a number of issues which were of concern, especially at the point mentioned by Mr Van Nispen, we have been able to establish that it cannot, can and will not be a drag law. We also have a minister who will see to that and an early evaluation will be made. I therefore believe that a number of important concerns have been raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u6	Well, there'll be that dragnet. After two years there will be an evaluation, but according to journalists there is a risk that these sources will end up in the towing network. I don't think anything is settled on that point. It is good that D66 has tried to do so, but today it is recognised that it is good for journalistic source protection that people can at least vote against that law on 21 March, because it is better for journalistic source protection that this law should be dropped.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u7	I kind of missed the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u8	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u9	An important issue raised in the discussion of the content of this legislative proposal is the scope of the concept of "source." It is now limited to persons who provide information for disclosure purposes, which is an important element under the condition of "other important element' that the provision cannot be traced back to them. I have a number of questions for the Minister. Firstly, how broad should I take that phrase "for disclosure" exactly? The Minister already wrote that this should not be a direct disclosure, for example in the context of long-term journalism research, but what about information that is only known at the source? There is a chance that a journalist will refrain from publishing it for the sake of source protection. Is that source still protected under this bill? And a little bit in that line: if the journalist is going to publish a broader story later, in which he does not go into the details of the information from a first source, but the information from that source has led the journalist on the right path for the bigger story, is there any source protection? When I read the case law of the European Court of Justice, I get the impression that it is, but I would like to hear explicitly from the Minister whether I should understand the bill in this way. Secondly, the explicit addition "under the condition" in the provision of the information. Isn't that better taken into account in the weighting the judge commissioner makes? If you leave that element out, I think you're increasing the chance of accidents, because how exactly do you prove that a condition has been set? Should it then be expressed explicitly, even if it is already clear from the nature and context that it has been done under the reservation of source protection? I therefore think it would be better to delete that phrase from the legislative proposal. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u10	You were just talking about the judge commissioner who's gonna have to test. I was wondering if you'd prefer the judge's commissioner to review whether it would be better to leave this to a multiple chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u11	That is a clear question. Moreover, at the end of my speech I will come to the Judge Commissioner, but that is another point. I have Mrs Buitenweg's amendment to item No. 15 on this. No, I don't feel that much at first. That's because, as far as I'm concerned, the judge commissioner is the central judicial authority in the criminal proceedings. In the course of the review of criminal proceedings, you will also see that the judge-supervisor still has an important role to play. Then I think it is logical that this type of review, which is intrinsically linked to the criminal procedure, is carried out by the judge-supervisor and not by the multiple chamber, which I believe would be your preferred option.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u12	Then you have already completely revealed that that would indeed be my preference. Do you think that's clear enough to check on? Could you give me a hint of the veil about that? It must serve a social interest. Is that clear enough for a source? In several countries, for example, this is discussed when there is a crime involving more than four years' imprisonment or something in that spirit. Do you think the norm is clear enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u13	I think the problem is not so much in the norm. I also have quite a lot of faith in our judiciary. I think he can make good judgements on that. In my opinion, it is always the seriousness of a fact and the question of whether you can access it in any other way, compared to the more general interest that you want to prevent sources from being deterred from reporting to journalism, against the backdrop of the interests that I considered at the beginning of my speech. I think that, in general, the Judge Commissioner should be able to weigh that well in a specific case. I also think that this kind of discussion is always more complicated in abstracto than in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u14	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u15	Mr. Chairman. I come to a second point concerning the scope of protection. That's the "publicist in the context of news garage." That definition seems a little too narrow to me. Anyone who publishes something online often does, if there is a source in the game, something other than just collecting news. That person or organization, I think, collects information and then makes news about it, whether or not it is picked up by other journalists. I would therefore like to hear clearly from the Minister that sources that do not collect news but collect information that can lead to news are legally protected under this bill. If that is the case, perhaps that would be the amendment to item No. Make 10 of the SP redundant. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the way in which protection is expressed in practice. In the case of Article 126n of the Treaty on European Union, the article on the collection of historical traffic data, call data and, at the request of my group, a provision has already been made by the government by letter of amendment. However, investigative practice often requires other data as well. For example, we are talking about camera footage or a hotel register. This can also lead, under circumstances, to the identification of a source. Retrieving data under Articles 126 nd, 126 nd is a new article that has not yet entered into force and 126 ud is still outside that explicit source protection. I wonder if that's right. They are, as far as I am concerned, similar powers where there should be no difference in source protection. In order to do that, I have the amendment to item No. 13 submitted. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have already told Mrs Buitenweg about the position of the Judge Commissioner. He's getting an important role. As far as I'm concerned, that's also the appropriate authority. The question is whether the expected size of the requests is sufficient to have sufficient up-to-date and specialised knowledge of both the journalistic risks and the investigative interest. In short, how often do you have cases like this and isn't it wise to concentrate a little bit? The new Intelligence and Security Services Act may have chosen to invest the review exclusively at the court in The Hague for these reasons. Then you can come to specialization and a better balance. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he has considered including a limited number of judges' Commissioners or one judge's commissioner from one or more courts in the country in the context of this legislative proposal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u16	I would like to ask again how Mr Groothuizen sees that. These are all decisions that can take place in a concrete case, day in and day out. Should I imagine that a case will be put on hold because it has to go to The Hague to make decisions there? Isn't it the day-to-day work of judges to make these kinds of considerations? I really don't see what's so special about this that it needs to be invested in a separate court or outside the rc. We also have a Supreme Court where we do legal form. Can Mr Groothuizen explain that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u17	I can. I think these kinds of decisions are, in the end, quite rare. That is actually a bit evident from the explanatory notes and the documents. I myself come from legal practice, just like Mr Van Dam. I honestly do not remember that such a case has ever occurred in about ten or twelve years. The question is whether this does not apply to many judges and whether it is not wise to ensure a certain concentration in which you also gain knowledge and experience. We do so in a number of other areas. Think about the human trafficking, think about the undermining rooms. I believe that, at the request of your group, think about checking possible decisions on police violence. I get the practical point. Of course, that needs to be properly arranged. Hence the question to the Minister. But it seems to me that in 2017 it is now possible to shape that in a fast way. It may not have to be one judge commissioner, it could also be some in the country. But at least we should get a little more specialization.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u18	I would like to point out that, in the case of the specialization of courts, it is simply a question of dealing with criminal matters. In Arnhem the military are judged and elsewhere it may be policemen and other things. But this is about ongoing powers. That competence and its review are part of a whole investigation. Do we have to go to The Hague for the whole investigation? I really can't imagine anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u19	I can imagine. I also think there might be some questions in a preliminary investigation that you don't see coming by as judge commissioner very often. I think this is typically one of those questions that can pass. The question is indeed how to shape it; hence the question to the Minister. However, I can very well imagine that you would put a certain isolated question for review and then not have to re-examine the whole investigation to another judge at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u20	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am speaking today on behalf of the Labour Party on this bill. Yeah, it really is. What's so important about this bill anyway? It is one of the essentials of the freedom of the press that journalists cannot be forced to make their sources public. This can only be done in very exceptional cases. If this were different, this could mean that the public and politically important information would not be received. Whistleblowers or others who know of a miscarriage may keep information to themselves if there is doubt and uncertainty as to whether their identity can remain secret. It is therefore of great social importance that we take good care of this. So this is not a privilege of journalists, but a condition for the press to function properly, the guarantee of anonymity of sources, the watchdog function for democracy. A brief review of history. As early as 1993 there was an initiative bill proposed by then MP Jurgens of the Labour Party. This initiative fell silent following a ruling by the European Court of Human Rights in March 1996, the Goodwin judgment, which ruled that journalists could keep their sources secret unless there are serious reasons for breaking that secrecy. The Court considered that journalism's right to change is indispensable in a democratic society. So we already had the case law. That was also an argument for the government at the time not to have to come up with a legislative proposal. But it's gone wrong too many times. Even after the judgment of the European Court of Justice in 1996, it regularly went wrong. Think of the Voskuil case, on which Jan de Wit asked oral questions on behalf of the SP in the year 2000. The Netherlands was convicted in that case by the European Court in 2007. At that time, it was promised that there would be legislation. But the Netherlands was more often hit on the fingers, for example in the aforementioned Sanoma case and in the case of De Telegraaf. The law is necessary, but it has taken far too long. It is now 2018, 22 years after the Goodwin judgment of the European Court of Human Rights and eleven years after the Minister announced that the law had to be implemented. Mr President, eleven years. I like that. Having said that, I am now focusing on the content. Because does the law go far enough? Does the law now regulate exactly what we want? Is the scope okay? There is still criticism of this, but opinions are also divided. This was also evident from the round table that we had on this issue, again years ago, in December 2014. There are roughly two main questions to be distinguished. The first is who can all be regarded as a journalist, who deserves the right to change and in what circumstances. The second question is in what exceptional cases should this right of withdrawal be allowed for greater social importance and how the procedure goes. First of all, I am talking about the first question: who will be given the right to change? The SP is in favour of a broad definition of the concept of journalist, i.e. a broad scope of the law. The assessment of whether a person can rely on his or her right to protect his or her source is ultimately made by the judge. I believe that the government has reasonably succeeded in doing so, because it is right that it has not been chosen as a criterion whether the journalist is paid or through which medium is published. None of that is relevant. The watchdog function of the press is not only exercised by the established traditional media and the professional journalist. The Minister rightly writes that it is important that freedom of the press in a democratic society should not be unnecessarily restricted by criminal action against persons who publish uncomfortable data for the government. That sounds good, but then the Minister says in the explanatory statement very skilfully that he does not want to rule out in advance that persons from a non-governmental organisation, an NGO, can also use source protection in circumstances. Yes, I can certainly imagine that such a person would like to appeal to it, because these civil society organisations are regularly approached by sources who know about abuses and want to make this information available on the basis of confidentiality, after which reports are drawn up and public and politically informed. That too can be seen as a watchdog function. Why didn't the Minister acknowledge that more generously? In this context, I have tabled an amendment, namely No. 10. The words 'in the context of news gathering', as an addition to the publicist, so the publicist in the context of news gathering, are not necessary and even unnecessarily confusing to me. Especially since the government itself points to the meaning of the word "publicist." He writes about political and topical issues. I think you should avoid discussing whether there is news or not. That is not necessarily a clear concept. I think my predecessor, the spokesperson of D66, just said the same thing. So I think it would be better to delete it. In my view, this amendment is not superfluous, as the D66 spokesperson just said, but very important, in order to avoid possible misunderstandings. Well, let's write it down in the law. I do think that this should be a contribution to the public debate. But all this is clearly explained in the explanatory memorandum and it is part of the legal history.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u22	I think this is an important point for this evening. That is why I would like to ask Mr Nispen. Let's say we're getting news out. For example, there are people who earn their living by vlogging about products. It's not exactly where my interest lies, but I call styling products, nail polish and I don't know what. There are people who make €75,000 a month, I've been told. "Protection of a source" may be a somewhat theoretical construction, but I can imagine that source says something about a particular product that is not good. If we take the word news out, we'll have the brakes off with what's possible. Then, so to speak, can anyone with a twitter account and a self-appointed journalistic function be included, or do I misunderstand you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u23	I am not sure whether Mr Van Dam misunderstands me or whether he is trying to pull something in the absurd.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u24	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u25	I honestly don't think it's relevant which medium you choose, whether or not you make €70,000 with it and how exactly you do it. What I think is important is that the vlogger in your example may have been given tips that there are certain abuses, for example that there is asbestos in make-up or I know what kind of social abuse might be going on. If that is serious research and if there are serious sources underneath and the person concerned relies on it, I think that a judge can very well assess whether there is a potential social defect, where it is important that a source has wanted to report it. Whether that source chooses to go to that vlogger with a very wide range or that source chooses to go to the traditional media... That judgment is not mine. I think a judge can judge that very well. To say now that the brake is off, seems to me to be a very short turn, or actually quite wide down the bend. I don't think it's gonna go that fast. We still have the judge's test.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u26	Yeah, but you can't send a judge out without a standard. A judge must have a measuring bar through which he has to test. In this case, the measuringlate consists partly of the term "for the purpose of news gathering." It is for reasons that I understand and explain to you, and I hope you will understand that I am looking at it differently. But how do you send the judge out to do his job?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u27	Another example: a non-governmental organisation. If we follow your amendment, it is only about journalists. Then it's just for journalists, whoever they may be, because there's no definition of "to reveal possible social abuses." Then a whistleblower has to go to a journalist, whoever that is. And that while it may also be good that people feel at home with an environmental organisation or a human rights organisation, who then do thorough research and then publish something. Is there a reporter? I don't think so. Is there a publicist? Possibly. But is there news gathering? I don't know. I therefore believe that these are topical political and social issues. Again, in my view, the assessment of whether or not the importance of protecting the source is rightly invoked is reserved for the court. That's what I trust them to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u28	I see Mrs Yeşilgöz as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u29	Can I ask a follow-up question for a very short time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u30	Well, I'd rather not. Otherwise, everyone wants a third time. I'll give you an opportunity later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u31	My question follows on from the debate we have just had. We are talking today about granting the right to change. That means a limitation of criminal investigation, of truth finding. So that is a great privilege that I think we would like to give Chamberwide to a particular profession. Now we have a difference of opinion about how you define it, but I am very much looking for a form of demarcation. Because when that group gets that big, do we not get the situation at some point that the judge should also look at the content of publications in order, for example, to consider whether something had a social interest? I'd like to watch over that. If you leave out all possible frameworks at the front, there could be a form of arbitrariness. I'm struggling with that myself. I'm very curious to see how my colleague looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u32	I understand the struggle. I believe that this will also be an important point of the debate, because there are amendments which cannot be reconciled. Those are indeed amendments. But first of all, I do not think this is a privilege we are granting tonight. It is precisely a condition that the press, the watchdog of democracy, should function as well as possible. So it is not a privilege that we assign to a particular profession tonight. Then there is the question of what is the definition of a journalist. Is that just someone from the traditional media who makes money with it, or can that be understood a little more broadly? In my opinion, it is also a question of being exposed by a publicist, whoever it is, or by a non-governmental organisation, and so is anyone who publishes something that is politically or socially relevant. In my view, this should be subject to judicial review on its own content and context. So I do share that concern, but I do not share the fear that this is the brake off, as I just heard. But I understand the search, because it's not easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u33	But it is indeed a privilege, so a separate right vis-à-vis other groups in society. There are a number of other groups that have that right, but we are talking today about journalists and publicists. But a very important part of this debate is that this is a specific right. That is what we are granting and want to preserve and anchor in the Constitution, precisely because it is necessary for the work of the journalist, the watchdog of our free democracy. However, the question remains whether you are not in danger of arbitrariness if you fly it so wide. Are you not in danger of interfering with the content from a political point of view and of assessing the work of the judiciary? That's what I'm worried about. We must, of course, stay far away from that. We must, above all, anchor that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u34	Yeah, anchoring that right is what we're trying to do best tonight. But the CDA, for example, proposes to delete "publicist in the context of news garage." That leaves you only "journalist." Van GroenLinks has a proposal to delete these concepts completely, leaving it entirely to the courts to decide. Excuse me, to the audience. The SP proposes to say "the journalist and the publicist" because I think the addition of the words "in the context of news gathering" is unnecessary and possibly confusing. In my opinion, it is precisely the right thing to prevent discussion of whether there is news gathering and about the disclosure of political and socially relevant facts and possible abuses. I think it's hard for a judge to judge whether or not that's news. That is not necessarily the relevant criterion. Hence the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u35	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u36	Also, the phrase stating that the source must have explicitly stated that its identity should not be known seems to me to be a criterion that should be deleted. The government has also introduced this into the law more restrictively than it already has in the Guidelines of the Council for Journalism. It also states that the identity is protected from a source from whom you knew or could know that the expectation existed that the identity would not be revealed. With the amendment in part No. 16, that first no. 12, I have tried to express that more clearly by deleting part of that passage. Or we should choose to include that passage from the Guide, which I just mentioned, in its entirety. That would also be an option, but as it stands now, it seems unnecessarily restrictive. I do agree with the government that the judgment or anonymity of the source should be protected, not just left to the journalist, but you cannot let it depend on a literal explanation of the source itself. Sometimes it's obvious that you shouldn't reveal the identity. That is why I have an amendment on this point too. So that was first submitted together with Mr Elias of the VVD, in part No. 12. That was quite a unique and legendary collaboration, I admit. But in the meantime, Amendment No. It was presented with Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Grotehuizen. How journalists do their work is indeed a matter of self-regulation. The government isn't about that. But journalists need to be careful, the government also stresses. The journalist must be in good faith, proceed correctly, and apply hearing and hearing again. And according to the government, that can be judged by the judge, as a point of reference or as an appeal to source protection in a specific case, whether or not it has been justified. That is fine in itself, but I do have a question on this. For what are the consequences if, for example, hearing again and hearing again has not been applied? The Study Committee on Journalism and Source Protection uses the following example. Suppose a journalist brings out a misdemeanor about a ministry and no hearing has been applied. That's not so neat. But then the government wants to know who the whistleblower is. Does the right to source protection fall only because of the lack of hearing and hearing? I don't think so. I would ask the Minister to give specific consideration to this. I come to the second main question, Mr President. When should the right to change give way to a greater social interest? The right of change for journalists cannot be absolute. There are cases where protecting a source would be disproportionate if there was a more important social interest. This overriding interest should then be harmed disproportionately if the relevant information were not made available to the courts in the context of the criminal investigation. That is the criterion of Article 218a, second paragraph. In the previous debates we have had on this subject, we have already looked at the laws in Belgium and Germany. At the end of the day, I am not convinced that these are necessarily the better definitions. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether the choice of a relatively open possibility for interruption, as it has now been formulated, will not make it difficult for journalists and publicists to check when and when they are not allowed to protect their sources. I'd like to hear a reaction to this. Can I have a reaction, including to the legal history, to the choice made in Belgian legislation, namely the criterion 'to protect the physical integrity of persons and to detect serious crimes'? Isn't that something more concrete and therefore better? I really mean this as an open question, because I am not convinced that this is necessarily an improvement, but I think it is important to have asked that question. The Minister repeatedly and emphatically states in various terms that the break-up of the importance of source protection will not be lightly pursued. That's an important, potentially leading statement. But the practice will have to show how this is going to work. I believe that the D66 colleague has said enough about the progress of communication data. This is also the subject of an amendment, namely No. 13. We are sympathetic to that. Which brings me to the point of the judge commissioner or the council chamber. That's what it's all about. The important responsibility to judge the breach of source protection lies with the Judge Commissioner. It only has to decide on heavy, sensitive matters, which I do not think there are very many of them. The suggestion has already been made to centralise this heavy responsibility and to make it exclusive to the three judges of the courthouse of the Hague, as has been done with the sister law on intelligence. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. This is really a point in which we consider that perhaps that would be a better choice. What I still find problematic is dispute resolution. Suppose the journalist invokes source protection, but justice breaks through this. In my view, this is not an effective remedy. There is the possibility of complaining, but that is only afterwards. That means that the judicial authorities already have the information; that cannot be undone. Is it or is it not provided for a system whereby the information is separated until the court has given its ruling on the matter, as envisaged and is therefore required under paragraph 92 of the Sanoma judgment? It is not clear to me whether and, if so, how the information will be sealed. That is not specifically regulated by the law. According to the Minister, this will be considered in the context of the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, but that will take some time. So I would like to hear an explanation on that point. So how's that settled now? Despite all the questions I have asked, I think it is clear that the SP welcomes this law. The law that lays down the right to source protection in the event of free news gathering can be seen as a legal strengthening of the freedom of the press, and that is good news for our democratic rule of law. But, Mr. Chairman... On the one hand, there is now the new law, which seeks to strengthen the right to change and the protection of journalists' sources. It's beautiful. It's really good. At the same time, however, a law is being introduced which could seriously affect source protection, namely the drag law. And with this new law, secret services have wider access to the cable than they have so far. Under the old law the intelligence services could already search for the cable if there was a suspicion. What this new law adds is that unfocused people can be sought against whom there is no suspicion at all. But what does that mean for source protection? Journalists don't have to mention their source when people tell them something in confidence, but why is it reported to the AIVD? Suppose, as a journalist, I reveal the identity of a source to a friend, but that friend is being bugged by the AIVD or that information gets into the dragnet. If the AIVD then starts working on that information, and that can be done, then that is actually a serious breach of source protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u37	I have the feeling that we already have a nice job to do tonight to deal with the legislative proposal before us. The explanatory memorandum and other documents explicitly state that the notion of the journalist and the exemption need not be regulated at the same time for both state security and criminal law. So I wonder if it wouldn't be wise to keep this discussion for another moment and discuss it with the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u38	I don't know if that's wise. I'm interested in the purpose of the law. We do have a nice bone in this law. The purpose of that law is to better regulate source protection for journalists. That's what we're gonna do for BOLOs. That is indeed difficult to call. We have discussions about how we do that, but we try to do it as best we can. But the purpose of that law is endangered by the simultaneous introduction of another law. So if we are all here to stress the importance of protecting the sources of journalists, because we believe that they are an important watchdog function for our democratic rule of law, then I would like to point out that at the same time there is another law, which, fortunately, people will find something about on 21 March, which is seriously violating it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u39	You certainly have the right to do so, as I have the right to ask you to do so at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u40	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u41	The jumping point is the following. If this new law is to be introduced and data made available for criminal law, then, as is the case at present, the provisions we are discussing tonight will have to be applied to any data obtained in this way. That's obvious. But I think we should limit it to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u42	I understand that Mr Van Dam of the CDA thinks so, but I think it is important to put that in perspective here. Hopefully at the end of the evening we agree on the importance of this law, which regulates source protection for journalists and regulates it properly for investigative services. But if, at the same time, we have a law on which people are lucky enough to pronounce on 21 March, which can infringe it and which can seriously affect source protection............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Let us call on the people to make a sensible choice on 21 March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u43	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u44	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Today, we are discussing the inclusion in the law of the right to source protection in free news garage. That's not just anything. Indeed, the bill is touching on the foundations of our democratic rule of law. It is a result of freedom of expression. Justice is important for the role of the press as a watchdog in our democracy. It allows citizens to be informed, even when it comes to information that authorities would rather not share, and it provides protection if necessary. We already know the law, it already exists. We know it from the case law of, among other things, the European Court of Human Rights and the Supreme Court. The Christian Union shares the government's view that it is important that, from the point of view of legal certainty and legal protection, we now also lay down this right in the law. We are therefore in principle in favour of this proposal. But my group still has a number of questions with regard to the choices made in this legislative proposal. The key point for our group's consideration is: who is entitled to this protection? Because justice is not unlimited. It is a special protection, and it must remain special in the eyes of the Christian Union. How can we ensure that this right is not available to everyone, but to those who need it? It has far-reaching consequences. It is, as has been mentioned earlier, a limitation of truth finding in criminal investigations. It gives the journalist an exemption vis-à-vis other citizens, who should normally speak as witnesses in criminal proceedings. We must therefore also talk about the way in which we can define this right when it is laid down in the law. The Council of State is seeking membership of the European Court of Human Rights, which in turn refers to the wording of the Council of Europe's recommendation of the year 2000. The Council of State advises us that for the time being a legal right to the protection of sources should be reserved to persons who collect or disseminate information professionally or regularly as journalists. The Council of State also says that although the term "journalist" is still relatively indeterminate, it does offer more clarity than a definition of even wider boundaries, such as when adding "publicist." In addition, you could also use the term "journalist." My group can actually very well follow this reasoning of the Council of State. That is why I ask the Minister: why is this not directly connected to it? Why does the cabinet choose a new concept by adding the term "publicist" in the context of news garage? And who exactly is that supposed to mean? The Council of State says it's too undetermined. It's not clear to us now. Is a broad interpretation of the existing concept of "journalist" not sufficient and better suited to case law and other legislation? This is an open question for my group. The fact that the Council of Europe has not been able to take account of the development of social media and the Internet, and that its recommendation is therefore no longer sufficient, is also too short for my group. The Council of State has also taken into account that participants in the social debate no longer depend on the traditional infrastructure and organisation of the media and use of social media. I also ask the Minister to reflect in a response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u45	I'm trying to get some clarity. I think we are all struggling with such a definition, but I have the feeling that the Christian Union fraction is trying to limit it. I wonder how the group sees the protection of resources for, for example, Human Rights Watch or other civil society organisations that put forward something important and should indeed fear major repercussions when the source becomes known. What meaning does this law have to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u46	I understand you have two questions. Let me turn to the first question, whether we would like to limit this. That's not the question. The documents we have received from the Council of State and all the underlying documents we have seen show that the Council of State actually finds that publicists are also covered by the term 'journalist', if you use that widely. So isn't that enough? That's the open question I'm asking here. I hope to receive an answer from the Minister. However, the Christian Union is reluctant to broaden the target group to which this right should apply. I'm very honest with you about that. We are reluctant to do so. I have already indicated that it is a special right. How do we manage well so that it doesn't apply to everyone, but to the people for whom it's necessary? This means for us that we are reluctant when it comes to increasing the number of target groups. We know the classic secrets, like doctors and lawyers. These are classic professions for whom this is arranged. Now, with this legislative proposal, we are going to lay down that it will also be dealt with by journalists and possibly publicists. We believe that this is a very important addition in relation to the professions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u47	Isn't there a limitation in the sense that it's about people making something public? In any case, that is the proposal of GroenLinks. You can also consider a number of other options. You have several possibilities to frame this, but it is important that there is information that is important for the public interest and that is made public and that the disclosure of that source may pose a danger to that source. Then that's already a restriction, isn't it? Not everyone makes business public all the time, which is also a real danger to a source. Then we should not exaggerate by saying that this actually applies to everyone in the Netherlands? It does apply to a limited group, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u48	You are forgetting that this also applies to news gathering. I'll open the question. The Christian Union is reluctant to bring this much wider. We are now asking these questions to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u49	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u50	Mr. Chairman. I have a few other points to make. The bill states that the judge-supervisor may also contact the profession, with a representative of the profession, when assessing the breach of the right to change. How does the Minister view this when he introduces the definition of "publicist" into the law? That's what we're wondering. In the written round, the Christian Union Group asked questions about the possibility of sealing information during the judicial review procedure. Once a source is public, the mind is difficult to get back into the bottle. Sealed storage of documents, while checking whether recourse to source protection is justified, can also prevent a source from becoming known. This possibility has not been specifically incorporated into the law. More than two years ago, the minister's predecessor, in response to our questions, asked that this practice is already being followed in the seizure of existing secrets, such as lawyers. There is, as his predecessor wrote, no reason to expect that this would be different with the proposed category of people we are talking about today, journalists and publicists. The Minister would also look further at this in the context of the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Christian Union is now asking what its status is. Has that reflection led to anything? Should we wait for that or should we just settle this right now? I would also like to ask the Minister how situations in practice in which protection of the source is desirable are taken into account, without any explicit agreement with the person concerned in advance. How does the proposed restriction to persons who have made source protection a condition relate to the recommendation of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe? We therefore welcome the amendment by the SP and the VVD on this point. I would like to hear the Minister's response on this point. I would like to leave it at that in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u51	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After seven years, I once again support this cathedral to talk about a judicial issue. I haven't done that since 2010. So I am very honoured to be able to do so tonight to replace my colleague, who is ill and who is usually the spokesperson of the PVV Group on matters of justice. And that with such a fun, important and interesting subject as the source protection of what I call journalists. I must begin by saying that, of course, we have seen that the direct reason for the government to propose a change in the Code of Criminal Procedure on this point was judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. As far as PVV is concerned, whether or not there are judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, it is of great importance to all Dutch people that free news is maintained and remains as free as possible. We do not really need the European Court of Human Rights for that, although I can see that the judgments of the Court of Justice were, of course, an opportunity to take action. But you can say very well that this should have been done without the Court's judgments. Mr Jurgens recognised in 1992 that it was really necessary to do so. This source protection is particularly important in times when governments want to control what is and what is not new and what is and what is not fake news. A broad explanation of the profession "journalist' or "publicist' is, in our opinion, desirable in this context. Due to the arrival of social media, there have been many, perhaps millions, journalists and publicists compared to the time when we didn't have that social media. As far as PVV is concerned, that is a great development. Due to the rise of social media there is now more chance of a countersound and of nuance, more than before. The need for all those who want to bring news out, to protect their sources, can be great. Because without a source protection guarantee, it may sometimes be possible for me to say: often it is difficult to obtain good news. A legal regime therefore ensures that it is clear to the police and the public prosecutors what rules they must abide by in order to obtain information from journalists. If sources are protected, this will benefit the free news garage. I have not been able to prepare myself in such a way that I have been able to weigh and comprehend every single letter of this bill and all the amendments and amendments. But I believe that the heart of the matter is about Article 218a. Four amendments have been tabled to the first sentence of Article 218a. I will go into this a little bit later, but I note that if you voted in favour of all these amendments, you will have a very strange sense, namely: 'Witnesses who have data may be exempt from answering questions about the origin of those data'. Then we have something that I don't think we all want. So perhaps we should make a choice between these amendments. This brings me to a question to the Minister. Mr Van Dam, with his amendment to item No. 14 delete the word "publicist." Publicists should therefore not be able to count on source protection. That has the advantage of simplicity: then you have the concept of "journalist." We all know very well who that is. So that makes it simple again. Mr Van Nispen wanted to delete "in the context of the news gathering." Personally, I can imagine, because why should we want to have the debate on 'in the context of the news gathering'? I don't really see that yet. Then we have Mrs Buitenweg, who says: let's leave it all out: 'journalist', 'publicist' and 'in the context of the news garage'. And then there is one final amendment, by Mr Van Nispen and by the VVD and D66. He says: let us also delete the condition concerning the persons who have provided data for disclosure under the condition that such disclosure cannot be traced back to them. I would like to put a brake on this amendment, but I would like to be convinced later. I would say that a source also has a certain responsibility to indicate what it wants or does not want. I do not feel so crazy about the wording 'that the journalist knew or could know that the source would want protection', which is apparently common among journalists. I actually like the wording as it says here. But now I come back to the word "publicist." And then I'm gonna end up with the Minister. If I understand correctly from the explanation of that word, a publicist must be someone who deals with the written word. For example, he has to work at an NGO, and then he can be qualified as a publicist. If he then produces pieces at that NGO, it's safe to call him "publicist." That is how I understand the explanations in the government's documents. Am I correct, Minister? Can a publicist be just someone who deals with the written word? Why am I asking that question? I sometimes see television programmes in which journalists are present. They are eligible for source protection; we know that. There are also people from an NGO who sometimes publish something. According to this definition, they are also eligible for source protection. But I sometimes also see people who are regularly in that kind of television programme because they have a good chat, but who are not very concerned with the written word. Yet they too can come to very good news on the basis of their fame, because people trust them and want to offer their news. But the people who offer such news do want to be protected as a source when it is put on the television programme. So my question to the Minister is: does this protection also apply to such cases? I would like to comment on the second sentence of Article 218a. That is the criterion to be assessed by the Judge Commissioner. If a journalist says he wants source protection, the judge commissioner will test for a heavier social interest and a disproportionate damage. Only if all this happens could the court commissioner put the source protection aside. I must tell you that I am actually satisfied with that criterion. For those words "a heavier social interest" and "a disproportionate harm" in my opinion lead to a very heavy review by the judge-supervisor. Such a tough review, which I also know from my experience at the D.A.'s office, there are also individuals such as doctors, lawyers and notaries. That's the kind of question that comes with it. Well, as a state's attorney, you have to come from a very good house to convince the judge commissioner that a doctor's right to change, a lawyer or a notary must be violated. That is virtually not the case with my knowledge. In my view, the review now referred to in the second sentence of Article 218a is equally difficult. So I have every confidence that judges can do so in a very good way. I see that I am going far beyond my speaking time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u53	Yeah, I see it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u54	I'm gonna stop now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u56	If there's any more questions, I'd like to hear it. Otherwise, we can always move on in second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u57	Thank you. I will now go to Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the end of 2014, a consortium of investigative journalists revealed the existence of secret tax agreements between more than 350 multinationals and the Luxembourg tax authorities. Walt Disney, Apple, Pepsi, Heinz, Amazon: they only have to pay a fraction of taxes through lucrative deals. One of Europe's most powerful men, Jean-Claude Juncker, was seriously embarrassed. Money, power and position. You can imagine that not all LuxLeaks informants felt free to do their story, because you're getting a lot on your mind. Two whistleblowers did, by the way, and were also immediately sued by their employer. Good investigative journalism is very important in a democratic rule of law. This brings out stories that rulers prefer to keep under their hats. It forces us to account for the extent to which agreements have been made and for the effects. Think of the IRT affair, the construction fraud and Abu Ghraib. In this Parliament, we often rely on information from journalists. And precisely because it sometimes shakes with private interests or positions, we owe it to our constitutional standard to offer journalists the opportunity to better protect their sources. GroenLinks is therefore very pleased with the proposal to create a legal framework to better anchor the source protection of journalists and publicists. But it's not just happiness that beats the clock. I come straight to GroenLinks' biggest concern. A great deal has already been said on other issues, so I shall be sitting on a subject which I know will make Mr van Dam very happy. GroenLinks' main concern lies in what is not regulated, namely the powers of the intelligence and security services. You already saw him coming. The new Act on Intelligence and Security Services, the Wiv, has a major impact on source protection for journalists. It is important to highlight this here today, so that there is also a proper overall picture of the source protection offered by Dutch legislation. I would like to say three things about this. Firstly, I would like to comment on the definition used by the Wiv. We have just talked about the definition here, but it is just different in the Wiv. The intelligence and security services have strict conditions for the hacking or tracking of journalists where this can lead to a source being revealed. According to Article 30 (2), this is only permitted if the court of The Hague has given permission to do so at the request of our minister concerned. But what is the definition of a source? According to Article 30, a source means persons who have provided information to a journalist for disclosure. This is a very different definition from that used in the present proposal. The Wiv requires a clear purpose and there is a limitation to the category "journalists." GroenLinks would like a broader definition in this proposal, as would the SP and the PvdA. We also want civil society organisations to be able to protect their sources. Think of the well-documented reports of Human Rights Watch or Greenpeace, and of the huge interests at stake when information about illegal logging is leaked. How does the Minister intend to align the definitions of "sources"? Or isn't that the point? Then what is the effect of having these differences? The second point I would like to make is that the protection afforded to journalists in the aforementioned Article 30 is no longer worth as much as the intelligence and security services use their towing power. Mr Van Nispen just said that. Interception must be carried out within the framework of an investigation, but this can be quite broad under conditions and may even include gathering information from an entire area. Amidst this multitude of data, there can logically also be information that leads to the disclosure of a source of a journalist. Let me give you a concrete example. Think of last week's research by De Volkskrant and Nieuwsuur on the STIVD and the AIVD. Perhaps the journalists have promised protection to sources within the services. At the same time and completely apart from this, it may be that the AIVD is currently investigating organized crime at Wittenburg in Amsterdam. There has been a lot to do in the last few weeks, as you know. Now I know this neighborhood very well. Wittenburg is located next to Oostenburg and at the end of Oostenburg there is a business site. On that business site is the editorial board of the Volkskrant. What if a research mission-oriented interception takes place, aimed at mapping all kinds of links between the people in Wittenburg, who suddenly expose traffic between journalists and someone from Zoetermeer? Is everything really suddenly erased? What guarantee does the government offer for the source protection of de Volkskrant journalists? At my third point, the Wiv travels much more. It concerns the sharing of evaluated data with foreign services. These are data that the Dutch services themselves have not yet looked at and analysed. That could be about metadata or a hard drive. The agreement is that we only share this with reliable services. I think that's a very good intention. What does this mean specifically for source protection? Does this mean that source protection is ultimately weaker for people from countries with reliable services? Suppose the Luxembourg authorities ask for data in the context of combating terrorism and tracing money flows between terrorist networks. On that unread hard drive or in the bulk data, information is found with which the informants of LuxLeaks can be traced. So what does the law we're discussing today offer? What are the consequences for the people who have caused the Prime Minister of Luxembourg so much trouble? In short, GroenLinks is very pleased with the front door we are discussing today, which more or less establishes the right to source protection in criminal matters. But we would like a little more attention for the back door and the trips through this back door. I would like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u59	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA. You can set the speaker seat yourself with the button on the right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u60	Yeah, I took advantage of that the other day. A cut!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u61	No, it's called a service.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u62	Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the protection of sources for journalists is regulated by law. It's a long process, because this bill dates back to 2013. The importance that we attach to journalism in our democratic rule of law justifies the fact that the protection of the journalist's sources is not only reflected in justice, but is also enshrined in the Code of Criminal Procedure. A lot has been said and written about this bill. Let me try to be brief and clear in this place. The CDA Group fully supports the legislative proposal that is now before us, except for one point. No one will be surprised that we want this right of pardon to be limited to the journalist. Let me explain this to you. The starting point in our criminal law is that witnesses are supposed to explain themselves. Suspects may remain silent, but witnesses must tell what they saw, what they heard and what they know. Infringing this principle can only be achieved if there are significant interests. One of these major interests is free news. But as for the other categories of right to change, namely the doctor, the cleric, the lawyer and the notary, the CDA Group also believes that you should not be able to say that you are a journalist or even a publicist. Of course, unlike doctors and the three other professions, journalist is a more open and more or less self-proclaimed profession. But if you want to make use of the right to change, so if you want to make use of that heavy exception, it seems to the CDA Group that you meet a number of conditions. We are thinking of a certain degree of professionalism, the observance of ethical rules in journalism, such as the obligation to investigate, to hear and to hear, the knowledge within an editorial staff of sources, the contribution to the public purpose of informing, indicating, clarifying or revealing abuses and the use of means of mass communication, either writing or via radio, TV or any form of social media. There is a discussion about whether you are a journalist if you are paid for it or otherwise receive a fee. The question is also asked whether you can call yourself a journalist or a publicist if you do not publish regularly every day. For the CDA Group, these are aspects that need to be examined in particular by the courts. It is virtually impossible to think of precise criteria for this in the law or in the explanatory statement. It is essential for the CDA group that we do not want to offer this legal right to every citizen, with or without journalistic ambitions, with or without a Twitter account, who declares himself a journalist or a publicist. Journalist is, however unregulated, a special subject with its own ethics and form of regulation. Only those who make serious work of this profession deserve the legal right to change, by checking the courts in practice. In order to make this very clear in the law, we are in favour of granting only the right of change in Article 218a to journalists and not to publicists. By leaving out publicists, we want to say that the law only belongs to the right, and I do not mean that in substance it belongs to serious journalists. By the way, I can very well imagine that people who are now known as a publicist are described by the judge as journalists and can change themselves in this way. It is mainly about the journalistic function and not so much about what we call "the profession." But leave that to the judge. It has been proposed to give this right to NGOs and other interest groups. We are not in favour of that. If you browse the Code of Criminal Procedure, you'll encounter all kinds of other forms of protection for witnesses, threatened witnesses, anonymous witnesses and things like that. It seems more like we're on that road. He seems to us that we should choose that path rather than distribute this right of change, which violates our criminal law principles, so widely. There are still a few comments to be made. The European Court of Human Rights, as well as the Council of Europe, only obliges us to grant this right of change to journalists. The inclusion in the law of the possibility for the court to understand itself with representatives of the profession, one of the proposals in this bill, emphasizes precisely that there must be a certain degree of professional group, interest group, professional ethics. This also includes a restrictive interpretation of the term "journalist." Since the introduction of the bill, we have experienced a real development in the field of news garing and social media. Those who believe that this has made every citizen a journalist should also be aware of the phenomenon of fake news. More than ever, real journalists can be expected to check news, check news and check again, use multiple sources and rehearse. It is precisely the freedom of the Internet that justifies not throwing every cowboy into the lap of the gift of the right to change. The term "publicist" is quite elastic. Is someone with a blog or vlog on the internet also a publicist? Is someone with their own YouTube channel also a publicist? The term "publicist" can be extended so that anyone who puts something on the Internet, for example a Facebook post, can be considered a publicist. This could have serious consequences for the detection of criminal offences. In any case, it will unduly delay the criminal proceedings. That is why we believe that we should be cautious in guaranteeing the right to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u63	In my opinion, this does not necessarily guarantee the right to change for anyone claiming to be a journalist or a publicist, but ultimately we leave it to the judge. I am a bit looking for what Mr Van Dam thinks is exactly the definition of journalist. He says that not everyone who vlogs, blogs or has a social organisation has that right but that this only applies to a journalist. Should you, for example, be a member of the Dutch Association of Journalists? Do you need a reporter's pass? What, then, is Mr Van Dam's definition of what he is looking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u64	I don't have an exact definition either. I am also not in favour of including an exact definition in the law, because the concept, the role of journalist in society, is also subject to change. Those who see a journalist acting today would not have thought 20 years ago that social media would offer opportunities for that. I have just mentioned a number of things that, as far as I am concerned, contribute to the image you have to think about. I have also seen this in the explanatory memorandum and in other places in the legal basis. I have talked about a certain degree of professionalism and respect for journalistic ethical rules. These are essential characteristics for me. I do not want to give the impression that today we can name the definition of a journalist. I also find it useful to bring in the Fat Van Dale every now and then, but for the discussion we have here, we will have to do it with this sort of thing as far as I am concerned. Maybe I can do another supplement? I am particularly concerned about the journalistic function. The Social Development Council also published a report on this. I think that should be at the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u65	That is in line with my follow-up question. We have received a clear letter from organizations such as Bits of Freedom, Milieudefensie, the Animal Coalition, Greenpeace, Pax et cetera. They give a very interesting example, namely: let's say that a former Indiesman seeks contact with a historian who investigates war crimes. That former Indian is willing to hand over photos and documents as long as his identity remains protected. Then it is in the public interest that that historian can make that commitment. Otherwise, the investigation can never take place. Could this historian, according to Mr Van Dam, be regarded as a journalist, or not? If the answer is that he's not a journalist, because I don't think a historian is a journalist, which justifies that he will eventually have to reveal the source? Because that's the consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u66	Just when Mrs Buitenweg spoke, I was thinking of a proverb that my grandmother often used. That was something in the sense of: the greater is the enemy of good. Or better is the enemy of good. The origin of this bill lies in a number of judgments of the European Court of Human Rights on the protection of journalists' sources. I would like to confine myself to that subject. Of course, I see the social problem that there are many more people who are informed about matters. It would be pleasant and good, and it would also be socially good if there were secrecy, but we are also talking here about the detection in our country. The rule of law has all kinds of interests to serve. For example, there is, on the one hand, the importance of free news gathering but, on the other hand, the importance of being able to detect and prosecute. So I think it would be a little more difficult to infringe those principles in our criminal law. Again, I can very well imagine that certain researchers, especially when they are going to publish, are covered by the term "journalist" and by the journalistic function, but I am considerably more restrictive than others not to make the problem greater than is necessary in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u67	I think it is true that it can lead to more condemnations, because there are more abuses at the moment when some source protection is provided. So I don't think source protection is so much in the way of tracking down crimes, because I think it clarifies a number of things. What I'm still trying to get clear is this. Mr Van Dam says that the word "publicist" must be removed and that he wants to leave a great deal to the judge, but we cannot put the judge on the spot. I would like to know from Mr Van Dam: does he want the judge to extend it as much as possible, or does he want to remove the word "publicist" and does he want a rather limited interpretation of the word "journalist"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u68	No, because I have just argued that I see this very journalistic function quite broadly. The fact that I'm removing "publicist" is because I don't want to come to any restrictions. I'd like to come to a very clear separation. I am going to say it very popularly now, but every vlogger and all those people who so to speak post a message on social media and then call themselves a journalist can explicitly not meet this. I think, however, that we could come up with a number of publicists who, in my opinion, could certainly be brought under that journalistic concept.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u69	But then it's a kind of historical track record that you have to have as a journalist and that's much less about the fact that there can be a social interest in revealing certain information? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this is the latter. That's why the source protection's here. I don't really understand why the CDA is holding on to the fact that someone must have proven themselves and, above all, shouldn't go vlogging.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u70	I have just said, in reply to Mr Van Nispen, that it concerns a number of qualities that someone has to meet in his work as a journalist or a publicist, or at least in publishing things. I would point out once again that it must not be a hobby but a professionalism and that someone must meet the ethical standards that apply in the journalistic world. I can repeat all that one more time, but that's a little nonsensical, I think. I think that's a big way to give the judge a framework to test someone. Nor should we forget that the other four beneficiaries are not mentioned in the law at all. Article 218 states that "disruptors" and the courts have been able to define themselves over the years the four professions covered by them. In this case, I think we are sending the judge with much more to go than he has ever had with those other recipients.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u71	I would still like to try to clarify it a little bit, because I have the impression that Mr Van Dam sometimes moves a little back and forth. On the one hand, he would like to be a little more restrictive, but on the other hand, the judge-in-chief can explain it so broadly that perhaps we will come back to a rather broad understanding. Let me give you an example of what I was just thinking about. Last Sunday he was arrested in Moscow: Aleksej Navalny. I don't think he's known as a journalist, but he's a regular publisher. Recently he also published videos about corruption scandals in his country. He then goes all the way down into the depths and shows that the rulers there have a lot of money. If we move that case to the Netherlands now, according to Mr Van Dam, does such a person deserve source protection, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u72	I think that is an extremely difficult example, because he is just someone who is looking for the public with his message. I think you should start by sketching the situation that this Mr. Navalny has someone who informs him of what he's making a video of. I do not know enough of his actual activities to point that out, but if he does things like that for a longer time, which is his main activity and he applies principles of hearing and hearing again, I am concerned about everything that goes with it; I'm a little afraid that I'm going to repeat myself then I can imagine that he can keep his mouth shut about who informed him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u73	That's obvious. I have the impression that we are getting pretty close to what the bill says, because in my view Mr Navalny is just someone who publishes about corruption scandals. There is another point that concerns me. If I understand Mr Van Dam correctly, he says: the European Court does not require a broader interpretation. But is it not much fairer to say that the scope of the term "journalist/publicist" has never been presented to the European Court, which means that we do not really know what case law requires?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u74	I agree. The case positions on which the European Court of Justice has ruled were also about journalists. I would also like to draw your attention to an opinion of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which sets out a definition which does not go beyond the concept of journalists. Let me put it this way: I do not see an international obligation to ride the publicist alongside the notion of journalists, to which I would indeed like to give a broad interpretation. To be honest, I also fully agree with Mrs Van der Graaf's somewhat bold question about how we are going to fill it out and what it stands for. That also leads to all kinds of discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u75	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u76	I would like to mention one other thing. In addition to the fact that you mention professions or say who is entitled to change in such situations, you should also mention criteria for testing. There is an essential difference between Article 218 in which the four other beneficiaries are present, and this case. If a doctor says, "Sorry, Judge, I'm not saying it," then so be it. There is no second paragraph, such as Article 218a, which states that there is a serious social interest and that the judge can break the doctor's mouth. That is provided for in Article 218a. I will not go through all the amendments, but I insist that we give the judge Commissioner criteria to give substance to the assessment of the serious general interest. That is why I consider concepts such as news garage, goals and the other things that are in it to be important. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. I appeal to all parties in Parliament not only to take care not only of the free news, but also to deal with our criminal proceedings and detection. Imagine a capital crime, a kidnapping or a terrorist attack, a case in which direct action must be possible to save lives. The police are on the trail of someone who's spoken to a source, with a person who apparently knows a lot more. In such situations, even in the new proposal, the judge-in-chief can break a right of withdrawal. Shouldn't such a discussion be an exception? Or do you think that we should deal with this generously, including in specific criminal cases? The criminal proceedings are, in many cases, severely delayed by the above procedure. We have to ask ourselves whether that barrier outweighs the source protection. The CDA believes that this consideration of serious journalism stands out on the side of the right to change. In the case of less serious journalism or publications, it stands out in the direction of efficient criminal proceedings. What burden in our modern multimedia time do we load, if we are not careful, on the shoulders of our law enforcement officers? We must limit this right of change to those who can be proven to be professionals in the profession of journalist. Protecting free news is part of our rule of law, but the prevention, control and detection of criminal offences is equally important. Let us not lose sight of this balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u77	Mrs. Buitenweg, a brief interruption? You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u78	I'd already sat down, Madam President. You looked at me so frisky. I would nevertheless like a little more clarity from the CDA on the issue of whether the transmission of unevaluated data to foreign services could mean that the source protection of journalists we are about to arrange today, provided that this is limited only to journalists, is undermined by this detour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u79	Let me say first of all that I am sorry that you are so deeply involved in this debate with this very small chance of this happening. I think that there are such essential things in this bill that I would like to talk to you about in particular. Having said that: in criminal law and other jurisdictions, if something is imported from another jurisdiction..... in this case, I see state security as another jurisdiction where standards other than criminal law apply........................................................................................................................................................... So if your dragnet data comes from a source that may be entitled to protection under future Article 218a, that will also happen at that time. Then the judge-supervisor will have to interfere and people will have to appeal to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u80	Wasn't it true that it's already abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u81	We're talking about the Code of Criminal Procedure. What's abroad and what it's like abroad: if it's okay, we're all under that European umbrella and they already have this article abroad or they're gonna have to take care of it, and they're gonna have to make the same assessment to keep things out of their criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u82	In any case, it is good to have recognised, also by the CDA, of course, we are exchanging not only with the European Union, but also with the United States of America, that there is indeed a gap, that with regard to the source protection we offer through criminal law, sources can still become known to foreign services via the Wiv. I was just trying to prove that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u83	Then you'll have to explain to me what you mean by "also at the CDA."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u84	No, we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u85	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u86	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u87	Two minutes and 36 seconds but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u88	That may be so, but this is another question when Mrs Buitenweg has also been standing here. Finally, I am going to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u89	Mr. Chairman. Freedom of expression and freedom of the press are a great asset in our country. The fact that journalists not only provide us with news but also sharpen our minds by highlighting the news from different angles is an achievement in our society that we must be proud of and protect. Journalists are the watchdogs of our free democracy. They're there to give resistance to those in power. In order to secure that position of journalists, the VVD looks positively at this bill. After all, the right, the privilege of journalists to protect their source, is a basic condition for their work to be done properly. This law anchors this right, an important step. Just in that light, I do have a few concerns. Journalists, as we have already discussed and we all know, do not form a defined, closed profession, such as lawyers. Journalists have no disciplinary college, regulations or register. In today's world, the definition of "journalist" has become, if possible, even more complex or wider. Classic media such as television, newspapers and magazines have now been complemented by various forms of social media, streaming, blogs and so on. Anyone can publish something, and I'm very happy about that. That is the freedom of expression that we have so much in store for in our country and for which, in my work in the Chamber, I am committed every day. Today, however, we are talking about a group which, because of its work, must have a special special right, or rather, retain the right to protection of sources. This means that journalists and publicists cannot be forced to testify when they have to disclose the identity of their source. Our goal here today is to fully anchor this right in the Constitution. It is therefore very important to discuss with each other who might or might not be able to invoke this right. It is then up to the court to determine the importance at crucial moments: the importance of freedom of the press or the importance of public security. The bill adds "publicist" to "journalist." They can be bloggers, employees of an NGO who write for the website and perhaps the average Twitterer. Although I understand the Minister's reasons for adding "publicist," I do wonder what this will mean in practice. I am not worried about the beauty vloggers of this world, just to look up the more extreme examples, but about a vlogger or blogger who, for example, distributes extremist ideas via social media. Can he or she give himself or herself with the title "journalist" or "publicist" a licence to withhold information? And what about someone who writes for the club magazine of a criminal motorcycle gang? This concerns information that may be needed to ensure security in our country. Because it's a core task of the government to keep us safe. I assume that even journalists and publicists who do not mean any harm and are professionals would not want terrorists and criminals to abuse their profession to unpunished extremist ideas or even call for hate to spread or worse in our society. I would like to know from the Minister whether he believes that there are enough safeguards in this law and whether the judges have the room to test this in order to prevent such abuse of this particular right. I'd like a reaction to that. This brings me to another point. It's a little bit of a side street. More than a year ago, my colleague Tellegen tabled a motion to involve imams' right to change in the Netherlands in the preparations for the revision of the right to change. Like journalist, imam is also a liberal profession in the Netherlands, for which no conditions, training requirements or criteria are required. Anyone can call themselves imam and invoke the right to be pardoned. For example, if there is an investigation into funding flows, the imam in question may rely on the fact that certain information may not be used because it has a duty of confidentiality towards its followers. The right to change is a great thing, but if you want to appeal to it, there must be something about it. I would like to hear from the Minister about the state of play on this motion. Mr President, back to what is going on here. I hope I have been able to make it clear that my questions are not aimed at restricting the freedom of journalists and publicists, quite the contrary. It is precisely in order to keep the freedom of the watchdogs of our democracy as high as possible and to ensure it as well as possible that the Minister reassures me that the judge has sufficient tools to intervene when those titles are abused by people with evil intentions. Finally, I would like to touch on the sources themselves. Mr Van Nispen has just done the same. For journalism, of course, sources are invaluable. At present, this bill states that the identity of sources is protected if the journalist in question has promised confidentiality, but a source does not always provide information under the explicit condition that his or her identity will not be disclosed. In the case of the VVD, this is undesirable in advance as a condition for protection. That is why, together with colleagues Van Nispen and Groothuizen, I have tabled the amendment to item No. 16 in order to remove this condition from the proposal. According to the VVD, this benefits the protection and freedom of our free press. Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with the words of former President Dick Dolman: a parliament is important for a democracy, but journalism is even more important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u91	I believe that many legitimate questions and concerns have been raised, but I am still looking for the VVD's position on these concepts, although I understand that you will not take a position until the Minister has replied. Do you tend to limit it to journalists, because there are all kinds of risks to publicists? You mentioned the author of the club magazine of the criminal motorcycle gang. Or do you have sufficient confidence that the judge can judge whether there is a significant interest? What are you thinking about right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u92	I have absolute faith in the judge. My question therefore focuses on this: does the judge have enough in his hands to be able to make that assessment? At the same time, as I have just said, I would like to avoid letting it go so far as to be almost arbitrary or to look at the content of publications in order to make an assessment. I think we all want to stay away from that. Those are the concerns I have. I hope that the Minister can reassure me and say that the judges here have enough in their hands to use the filter that I think we all want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u93	But the question is: what is a publicist in the context of news gathering? Then what separates him from a journalist? And what about the example we mentioned of the historian or the scientist or the employee of a non-governmental organization who is bringing out a miscarriage? Do you or do you not think that under the circumstances, judged by the judge, they can also protect the sources?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u94	Mr Van Nispen has just said one very nice subtlety: judged by the judge. So it is not up to me to consider all kinds of examples. What I want to give you are the frameworks. That's what we do here with this law. I am actually saying the same thing as my colleague Van Dam from the CDA about the position. What's the function? The Court also says that it is the role of the media to be a watchdog in our democracy. I myself find it less interesting than the difference between a journalist and a publicist. It's about the function and the role. In addition, there are a number of codes of honour or code of conduct that the Dutch Association of Journalists also uses. I can imagine you saying on the basis of that: that is some sort of demarcation. Of course, it remains a fact that journalist is not a defined profession. I'll argue here that it's a trade. It's a job. I think we're working on the special rights for the department. It's not for me to say, "You're one of them, and you're not one of them." That's up to the judge. I would like to know from the Minister whether he believes that the judge has sufficient resources to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u95	I see Mrs Buitenweg. You may ask one question, because unlike others, you are truly unlimited. I did not agree on the number of interruptions on the assumption that everyone would be very careful about them, but that is not true of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u96	I was sick, so I thought, "I'm gonna take my chance now."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u97	Yeah, but that's not a reason. You may briefly ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u98	After all, it remains unclear. There's gonna be a judge's assessment. I understand that, but do you or do you not think that a judge should judge someone who works at Human Rights Watch, made a report and protected a source?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u99	If that... no, I'll say it differently, Mr. Chairman, because I almost fell for it. This is the same question with another example. It's about what the job is. What's the target? This is about a heavy balance. The judge must start to weigh more heavily: the freedom of the press, the freedom of the journalist or the publicist, or our security at that time. That is before us; we are not talking about very small subjects here. Granting the right to change means, as I said earlier, a limitation of criminal investigations. So I really disagree with GroenLinks in this case when she says that we need to take that lighter and make the group as much as possible. I would like to be sure that we offer maximum freedom and maximum protection to the journalists and the publicists who are covered by the post we were talking about. You have to do that balance very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u100	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u101	It's about what the judge can weigh. GroenLinks also does not say that all these people are protected by definition. The point is that the judge has to look at what is now a social interest. I can now tell you that you say on the one hand that you want to limit it and on the other you say that it is up to the judge to check it. Whether it's a publicist, someone from an NGO or anyone else, it's up to the judge. But then there shouldn't just be "journalist"? Surely there should be much wider reference to a number of professions which may be able to rely on source protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u102	But with the phrase "journalist and publicist," which stands there, there is also room for that. That is also stated in the explanatory memorandum to this law. It clearly states that, given the changing media landscape, many different types of publicists and journalists can be covered. There it is. I would now like to make sure from the Minister that there is little room for people who want to take advantage of it, who invent on the spot that they are journalists so that they can throw all kinds of things online. I don't want there to be room for that, I have to say. That's the part I'm worried about. I don't want to limit anything else here. I consider the role of journalism, whether it be a publicist or a journalist, to be important. I think the news is important. And I want to prevent this from being abused. I think we all agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u103	I haven't been sick yet, but I'll be brief. Here's what I'm wondering. I can actually hear you saying a lot of things that I have said. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that I want to limit it to the term 'journalist'. Can you explain to me again why you're leaving that in the middle? What makes you hesitate in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u104	Mrs Yeşilgöz, you can also reply very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u105	That could be; thank you very much. Journalists are not a defined profession either. We cannot say: this is a defined profession and we do or do not include another defined profession. I note, however, that the Minister's explanatory statement states that, given the changing media landscape, we need to look at this more widely if we are to be able to deal realistically with the cases and the issues that we are likely to see in the coming years. That's important. Only, I agree with Mr Van Dam that not every vlogger or blogger or anyone who regularly sends tweets can then rely on it. Because what we do here, what we weigh here, is a very important privilege. I would therefore like the Minister's confirmation and a great deal of reassurance that this is settled. He's busy preparing his answers right now, so he'll be fine. Then I can live with the wording as it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u106	But that could also mean that you finally choose to let it be only "journalist."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u107	But then Mr Van Dam assumes that the Minister will give an answer which I think is: well, that's really weird. Let's just listen to that answer first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u108	That's right. Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. This also brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll see how long the minister needs. Twenty minutes? Then we'll suspend until 9:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u109	Madam President. To emphasise the importance of journalism for our society, I would like to open with something Oscar Wilde has said and which immediately indicates my own modest position. It's a bit of a quote, but still. Oscar Wilde says, "The minister governments for four years, the journalist governments for ever and ever." I think that this has also given me a somewhat more nineteenth-century touch on the beautiful quote that the honourable Member of the VVD also came up with. For this reason alone, I think it is a good thing that we are here today, tonight, to deal with this bill. It has indeed come out somewhat of the 'vault', as Mr Groothuizen said. How do I put it? It came out of the pantry a little bit. It does indeed have an exceptionally long history, as Mr Van Nispen said, which began in 1993 with the Member of Parliament, Mr Jurgens. Through those judgments of the Court we sail until 2018. It is a complex subject that has also gradually developed into thought formation. I will come to the point touched by many of you by the journalist and the publicist. It is good to state once again that the purpose of this bill is to recognise the right to source protection. On the one hand, this is in the interests of free news and freedom of expression, but on the other hand, it is important to have a non-absolute right to source protection in the context of truth-finding, which is used in criminal law. That is something we have to establish very well with each other. I very much appreciated Van Nispen's historical introduction. I immediately deleted the parts I had myself on that, because he put it better than I had tried to do. But I have to say that I do not endorse his speech to all ends. It is also about balancing the boundaries of truth finding in criminal matters; I really want to emphasise that. And I say again: the right to source protection is not an absolute right; it is also a question of responsible information collection. What is strictly necessary for use in criminal proceedings? All in all, this is an extremely interesting subject for lawyers, but also for media specialists. I will not go into all the issues now, Madam President, because I do not think that is necessary anymore. I would like to focus on the issues that have been raised this evening and thus address as many themes as possible in the various contributions of Members of Parliament. For example, Mr Van Dam raised the question of whether there is an international obligation to extend to the publicist. Indeed, the case law of the European Court of Human Rights has so far only been about journalists, but that does not mean that we should base our law solely on that case law. We need to take into account the dynamics of the media landscape, but also the dynamics of the news gathering and disclosure, and in that context we need to take into account obvious societal developments. I believe that, with a limited understanding, which should be interpreted in a broad sense, we together avoid our responsibility as legislators. Then why am I also appealing to the MP Van der Graaf extension with publicist? Now, on the basis of the interpretation of Article 10 by the ECHR, the importance of free news and freedom of expression in a democratic rule of law must be given extra weight in the face of social abuses. The granting of source protection in certain cases indeed constitutes a restriction of the truth finding. When I chose not to limit the circle of persons who can rely on it to journalists as a profession, the role of free news gathering was decisive in the public debate. Given the social developments in the news collection, it is no longer possible to maintain the idea that this is only a matter and a task of journalists. For example, I cannot see why a writer who comes from or works for an NGO should not have a right to source protection for his or her participation in the public debate in the context of news garing. It is precisely to this end that it has been proposed to extend the possibility of source protection to the publicist. In this respect, I welcome the support of the Study Committee on Journalism Source Protection: first against extending its scope and now rightly so. The Committee informed your Chamber of this in a letter dated 28 January 2016 and recently. Also established media cannot do without the phenomenon of the so-called citizen journalist. Citizens, publicists are needed to have news gathering in digital form as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u110	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u111	I'm not quite done at this point, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u112	I would therefore like to propose that this be concluded first and that Mr Van Dam be given an opportunity to intervene afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u113	There will be a bit more, so I do not want to tire Mr Van Dam, who is already at the interrupting microphone. A limitation of source protection to the real journalist............................................................................................................................................................................................ A broad interpretation of the concept of journalist does not solve this. What's a publicist? Those who regularly collect information in the context of news gathering belong to that publicist, and that is according to Van Dale someone who writes about political or topical issues. With a journalist, he has in common that he regularly collects or disseminates information in the context of news gathering. The only relevant difference is that he doesn't or doesn't always do that professionally. I refer to the reason given earlier why I believe that source protection should not be reserved solely for professional journalists. In that respect, I quote Joe Klein. As a reminder, he wrote Primary Colors, a description of Bill Clinton's presidency based almost entirely on anonymous sources. Joe Klein said, "Anonymity in journalism is a thing of the 20th, 21st century, but anonymousity as a source goes back to the Bible." In this respect, I believe that we must also realise that free news gathering over the centuries is not a monopoly of the journalist. I'm really at a point right now where I...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u114	Now you, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u115	For a moment I thought I'd ended up in higher education, given all the English language. But that doesn't seem to be the case. A point of order: those who love dualism must now have a very good time in this debate. That can't be wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u116	We're all ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u117	The minister says that excluding the publicist is no longer today. It is a complicated debate, because I have the feeling that what one person means by a publicist is another person and so on. I have pointed out certain conditions, such as professional, professional action, compliance with the ethical rules which I suppose exist within a significant part of journalism, to serve the public interest in the sense of informing or investigating. Do you think that this researcher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, should be able to say that Mrs Buitenweg's NGO, which you include in that concept, must also comply with that kind of rules, if he is to be able to invoke the protection of this article?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u118	I also agree that higher education should be in Dutch for 90%, with occasional English wisdoms such as quotes and so on. In that respect, we are in an ideal situation here, temporarily. However, I would like to say the following to Mr Van Dam. Mr Van Dam spoke about a blogger who does news garing on his blog and publishes a wrongdoing. Mr Buitenweg referred to the issue of the tax exemptions of multinationals. We can, of course, have a discussion about whether that is an error, but that is not what we are discussing today. Someone who writes about this on his blog may eventually rely on source protection on that blog, as far as this bill is concerned. On the other hand, when a person writes in a blog that he finds something of a particular group of people or companies, in the sense of disqualification, he cannot say "others say it too" and cannot invoke source protection for that disqualification. This does not happen in the context of news gathering; these are opinions or emotions. Let me now turn to the journalistic standards that Mr Van Dam is talking about. The European Court of Justice has formulated certain ethical rules for journalism for the pursuit of truthful and objective information. You can look at the Haldimann judgment of 24 February 2015. There are a few rules that matter. 1. Is a reporter's claim properly substantiated? 2. Has information been verified and is it confirmed from other sources? 3. Has he been rehearsed and rehearsed? For example, a journalist must guarantee to some extent the objectivity and factual correctness of his reporting. I would like to say out loud to you that a publicist who, in the same way as a journalist, seeks news gathering and publishes it in that context should apply the European Court's standards of acclaim. So yes, I find that in itself something that is simply the result of case law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u119	I would like to make it very specific because this is a very important point for my group. You yourself mention the example of a vlogger. Suppose that vlogger refers to a message he's heard from someone. What if that "someone" is from Russia? In the context of a criminal investigation, the police and the justice system want to know. They find out that the vlogger didn't consult any other source, just overwritten that thing and didn't check it. Let me confine it to the aspect of hearing and hearing again. I know that there can also be many other factors that can make this case difficult, but I would like to limit it to this. What if someone doesn't use hearing and hearing in any way and doesn't properly investigate whether something is true, do you understand that, given what you just said about European case law, he can't hide behind this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u120	Now we're gonna have a debate on...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u121	This is a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u122	Yeah, I wanted to finish the sentence. We are going to have a debate on the test of legitimate or qualitatively correct journalism. However, it may happen that a journalist, I say it for journalists, then I come to publicists in a reportage that brings news about, for example, poor working conditions in a factory. That's a very simple example. In this context, he has not been interrogated with the director or the owner, but he has sufficient resources to prove that the working conditions are in breach of the law, or are at least disastrous or whatever. Then it might be that the journalist did not follow the principles proposed by the European Court of Justice for careful journalism, but could nevertheless rely on source protection. I think that's two things we should keep apart. If I move that to a publicist, they might as well be. I shall come back a little more in detail later on to the issue of the news gathering, which I am holding on to in such a way. But I think that should be the sharp criterion for journalists and publicists. Whether you write in a newspaper or on a blog, it should be about news garing, about publications in that context, and not about expressing emotions or opinions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u123	I hear the Minister say that the use of the term "journalist" is no longer of this time. Now I have opened the debate quite openly tonight. I'd like to be convinced, too. But that's not the argument you're going to get the Christian Union with, I think. I would like to ask the Minister how he assesses the opinion of the Council of State in this light. It clearly indicates that adding the word "publicist" makes the bill unfocused and undetermined. Can you reflect on how you involved that opinion of the Council of State in your consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u124	Of course, the balance has begun with the fact that it was very difficult, in close consultation with journalism, to define the profession of journalist exactly. A lawyer must be sworn in and registered on the tableau; that is very old-fashioned. Then there are a few very simple, formal criteria that allow you to define that group. The same applies in a different way to doctors and notaries. In the case of journalists, journalists and publicists, but I am talking about journalists, as it was already true that it was very difficult, even for the journalists themselves, to draw exactly that line. That was the beginning of the discussion. These are people who, with a certain degree of professionalism, but in any case targeted, publish publications in the context of the news collection, with a view to protecting all or part of their sources. I did not mean to say that I heard you say that, but perhaps I heard that wrongly, classical journalism is no longer of this time; quite the contrary. I merely said that, in the context of the news and publications resulting from this, a group was added which is best described as 'publicists' according to the definition of Van Dale which I have just quoted. They also differ mainly from journalists because they do not necessarily or not always do so professionally. By the way, Joe Klein, whom I just mentioned, is of course a very interesting example of this. A book has just been written in America about the current president, as you know. There are many mentioned sources, but also a number of anonymous sources. It's not said it's a journalist who does that. It could just be a publicist writing a book like that. It is also eligible for protection in respect of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u125	That is where you are actually getting to the very heart of my point. I pointed out that the Council of State's argument was correct that this target group of publicists is too undetermined. That is also what the Minister points out when describing journalists as a target group. That is not a defined target group either. That was the problem. So my question is: why does the Minister choose to add an indefinite target group, namely that of publicists? And I repeat my previous question: what exactly do you do with the opinion of the Council of State? How did you get involved in that trade-off?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u126	I have certainly involved this in the consideration, but I have compared it to the definition problems that have already arisen from the profession of journalism itself. I think we need to get a good look at two things. The first is this. What we are talking about here, of course, is why Mrs Yesilgöz's quote was actually very nice, because it is the source protection for matters which it is good that they can be made public in a democratic society, and which, if there was no source protection, would be at risk of not being made public. If we are to be the first to know, the second point is that you must also be aware that the protection of resources is something fundamentally different from the professional secrecy of a physician, a priest or a lawyer. We know that. That professional secrecy is designed to prevent it from coming out. This is a source protection that aims to ensure that it can come out safely. If we put that at the heart of the matter, then we need to see who are the ones who can do it regularly in the context of news gathering. They are journalists and in a more general sense also publicists. I mentioned the example of two writers who made a book, one in 1998, Primary Colors, and the other Fire and Fury in 2017. Both of these books have revealed an important set of data for society. I'm not sure, but I think at least one of those two authors is only a publicist and not a journalist, but maybe they are both.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u127	I don't think it's getting much clearer yet. The Minister says it's about the public interest that you then see, but if you define it as broad as we have it now, isn't the risk that the judge will then have to decide whether something had a public interest in substance? That's not what we want, is it? We hear a lot of beautiful examples of publicists who would be covered by this now. In my speech I also talked about examples of people who could take advantage of this, for example someone who writes for the club magazine of a motorcycle gang. I think it could come a long way with the codes we were just talking about. Does someone like that fall under source protection? Of course, it's all about the risks now. So I would very much like to have a more focused response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u128	I would like to respond specifically to your question. I would like to have said out loud that the extension of 'journalist' and 'publicist' is in no way a free pass for racist, discriminatory or otherwise against legal statements. Participation in the public debate is not about that kind of talk. These are well-founded factual relics or disclosures which have actually been verified in a proper manner. I would also like to emphasise the latter. Wild accusations or anything like that are not covered by this bill either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u129	To be honest, that's what I assumed. I do not expect us to agree on something here that will allow racism and discrimination to happen all of a sudden. At least my speech would have looked different. It's about the function and the purpose. That is why I mentioned as an example someone who does extremist expressions that do not fall within the forbidden category and who says: I can do what I want, because I have source protection. For example, I also mention a writer of the local Satudarah chapter, who writes for a club magazine. What do we think of that? Does that also fall under source protection? The fine examples are great, but here I see comments and concerns. I think it's very important that we check with each other to see if we're gonna send the judge out with something he or she can do. I'm still really looking for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u130	I think Satudarah is a very good example. It seems unlikely to me that it will happen, but if a member of Satutarah in the club magazine of Satutarah reveals wrongdoing to Satutarah and says that these and those wrongdoings are taking place, I shall say it very carefully and generally, then that is something that can count on source protection, because that is news garbage and the disclosure of wrongdoings. This also applies when a journalist of a newspaper reveals abuses to a private association, as long as it concerns news gathering and disclosure of abuses. On the other hand, if a member of a private club in the club magazine blackmails, accuses or slanders other people, it has zero source protection. Let's be very clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u131	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u132	Just a few words from you to Mrs Yeşilgöz: she also mentioned the example of hate images. Apart from the fact that she knows that my policy focuses precisely on countering expressions by hate images, a hate image for spreading or sowing hatred cannot in any way rely on source protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u133	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u134	But I would like to emphasise, in the direction of Mr Van Dam, that the journalistic standards that the European Court of Human Rights applies to journalism, one-on-one also apply to publicists, especially when they rely on source protection. I had another question from Mrs Van der Graaf: who is the representative of the profession of publicists? I would like to draw your attention to the third paragraph of Rule 98, which states that the Judge Commissioner may be informed by a representative of the profession. If it doesn't exist, it can't. But he can also orientate himself to standards such as "fair justification," "checking information" and the like. I believe that we should be able to see together that we must allow the judicial system itself to develop in this respect. Mr Groothuizen asked what "publication" means and whether the source would still be protected if it was later published in any form. Yes, source protection will continue to apply. Mr De Roon asked: is a publicist someone who only deals with the written word, or can others also be regarded as a publicist? I do not exclude wider possibilities of expression, such as films, YouTube documentaries and such or the spoken word on the radio. The publicist can also participate in the public debate through sources of protection and contribute to news gathering on social situations. So that's pretty clear, I guess. I assume that Mr Van Dam's question on the ethics of journalism, based on the case law of the Court, has been sufficiently addressed. Mr. Groothuizen still asked... No, I've already answered his question about source protection. I'll be on the Wiv. But before I do that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u135	You certainly answered that question as far as publicists are concerned. But I would still like to try it one more time, and then as far as it's about non-journalists, non-publicists, just people who vlog, blogging, and so on, one-off or non-committal on the Internet and shout: I can also appeal to it. Do I understand correctly that if they do not meet the criteria of the European Court, they cannot invoke the protection of this article? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u136	Let's go back. I've addressed it before. I have mentioned the example of the factory with poor working conditions. If a journalist writes about this and does not comply fully with the ethical standards set by the European Court, then it is not said that the sources he uses do not deserve source protection. That goes for a journalist, but also for a publicist. If a journalist fails to comply with the ethical rules of journalism laid down by the European Court of Human Rights, it may, under circumstances, lead to the absence of such protection. So it doesn't always have to be. But it is also possible that this journalist commits a tortuous act against the person he has published about, for example by removing facts from their context or something like that. However, that is a rather different discussion than the discussion on whether a journalist - let us focus on the journalist - can rely on source protection. He can do that even if he hasn't used pure hearing and hearing for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u137	I am only asking you explicitly not to talk about the journalist or the publicist, but about the ordinary garden and kitchen vlogger who once posts a message and then calls on it. It is incredibly important for my group to know whether the Minister wants to include such people in the functioning of this law. I'm actually just looking for him to say, no, he's not one of them. For there can be almost no other logical conclusion, given what he says about the case law of the European Court of Justice. Again, I think it is very important to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u138	I'm gonna look in my papers again for the definition of "publicist" I gave you. I have it here, and I can repeat it again. I will read that definition again, for the sake of clarity, because I would also like to avoid any ambiguity with Mrs Yeşilgöz. Those who regularly collect and disseminate information in the context of news gathering are, as far as I am concerned, the publicist. That's someone who writes or publishes that can also be in a movie or in a radio program on political or topical issues. He also shares with the journalist that requirement that he regularly collects or disseminates information in the context of news gathering. The only relevant difference is that he does not, or not always, do so professionally. I have mentioned a number of examples. I have mentioned two concrete publications by publicists that you may not really see as journalism, but you can also disagree on that. And then I have the NVJ by my side, who also found it difficult to define it. I would like to mention once again the two criteria I have just mentioned, i.e. to publish regularly on political or topical issues in the context of news gathering and the collection or dissemination of information. The only relevant difference with a journalist is that this does not happen, or not always, professionally. Those are the keystones for a publicist. A blogger or vlogger that is limited to opinions or emotions, or that comes into the air once, is not covered by the definition requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u139	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u140	Madam President. I had joined the Wiv 2017, the new Intelligence and Security Services Act. You know that it was accepted by the First Chamber on 26 July last year. It gives the intelligence and security services the powers to investigate cable-based telecommunications as well. Article 30 (2) lays down the exercise of powers against a journalist, which may lead to the acquisition of information on the source of the journalist. This is only permitted if permission has been given by the court of The Hague at the request of the Minister of BZK. So there are already two thresholds. The director of the AIVD first has to go to the minister of BZK and he has to go to the court of The Hague again to ask for that permission. Authorisation shall then be granted for a period not exceeding four weeks and may be renewed each time. And a "source" is then persons who have provided information to a journalist for disclosure. We are talking about a very different situation in the Wiv, with a very different consideration. I think that is why we are so clearly protecting the journalist and the publicist in this legislative proposal, which deals with the protection of sources in criminal proceedings. Can there be any sharing of unevaluated data with foreign services? That's what Mrs Buitenweg asked. That's beyond the scope of this bill. This concerns the provision of information in criminal matters and not the exchange of information between intelligence services. I hope I made that very clear. Then, after Mrs Buitenweg's interruption, I will also give a clear answer to the question to the public prosecutor, which Mr Groothuizen asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u141	This is indeed about criminal law and criminal law, and the Wiv is about intelligence and security services. In some countries information is much easier than in the Netherlands from intelligence work in criminal law. An unopened box of data, not analysed and viewed by the Dutch services, can be handed over to services abroad, where the information does indeed end up in criminal proceedings. I am concerned that we acknowledge that here, so that we are clear about what this law protects. This law is a very good contribution to source protection, but the Wiv does indeed have a number of open doors, including this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u142	We may disagree on those open doors. Today it is not about the treatment of the Wiv and its consequences. At your request, I wanted to indicate the difference between the Wiv 2017 and the situation under this bill. I tell you that the provision of information in criminal matters does not concern the exchange of information between intelligence services. The article we are talking about is only at the service of criminal law. Whether and how certain data are used in the context of the Wiv is not up to me, but at the two-stage threshold of first the Minister of BZK and then again the court of The Hague. I'm just standing here for this bill. I say to you: this is about gathering information in criminal matters in which very generous protection is offered to journalists and publicists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u143	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u144	I think two things are gonna get mixed up. There are indeed two thresholds, namely the consent of the Minister and of the court, but only in the case of data specifically searched, for example in the case of taps. But it doesn't apply to the unevaluated data. The Minister may have to give his consent, but he doesn't know what's in that dense box or closed disk, because it's just unevaluated data. In this respect, the Minister cannot therefore guarantee that there will be no breach of source protection. Well, that's important to establish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u145	I need to think about that. Speaking of thresholds, I believe that you are now moving to the Wiv on the threshold of this bill. As much as I would like to discuss the Wiv with you once again, that is not the issue today. I'm always trying to stress that you don't have to worry. This is about gathering information in criminal matters. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u146	Proceed, Minister. No, Mrs. Buitenweg, I suggest the Minister move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u147	Can I just reflect on it for a second? If I do not give an adequate answer, I can come back to it in the second term. I'll see if Mrs Buitenweg will allow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u148	I like it. You can come back to that later. Mr. Van Nispen, do you have another question? Promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u149	I will not ask a question about the tow law, which actually undermines the purpose of this law. I won't. I'd like to come back to something the Minister said. In the Act on the Intelligence and Security Services, the Board Chamber of The Hague is reviewing. We have raised a question about this. If it can be done by that law, which also deals with urgent matters, why is it left to the judge commissioner to take the test under this law? Why is it not subjected to a heavier test, for example from the multiple chamber of the court of The Hague? It only happens a few times a year. This can also be submitted to the council room in emergency situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u150	I shall come back to the amendments on this later. Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u151	Come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u152	Mr Van Nispen agrees. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u153	I would like to come back to Mrs Buitenweg's point. I want to try again before we have to get back to it in the second term. If you look at the separate frameworks in which the investigation and intelligence services exercise their powers, it is not appropriate for the AIVD, through a positive opinion from the independent review committee, to be given permission to the Minister of BZK to find out the source of a journalist to share that knowledge with the police and OM. It can't be that. Period. I hope I have made that clear once again. If that is not enough, I will come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u154	Very briefly, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u155	Unevaluated data that go abroad are unevaluated data. The AIVD and the judge don't know at the time whether it's something that actually deserves source protection. The point is that these data go abroad and that criminal law and intelligence services do indeed often intersect abroad. I remember that from my time in the European Parliament. The fact that these histories are not always the same was one of the problems in further improving cooperation between intelligence services.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u156	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u157	So it may indeed be the case that data from the Netherlands go that way that would be given right and protection here, but not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u158	But you know, the exercise of powers by intelligence services is really strictly bound to the objective of the Wiv. That was already the case in the Wiv 2002. That's in the Wiv 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u159	I suggest you continue...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u160	I keep talking about the Wiv.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u161	...and also doesn't respond to comments outside the microphone. Because people can't follow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u162	I'm sorry. I want to be at the service. Mr Groothuizen had asked about the matter of the D.A.'s office. Again, it is not the case that the AIVD is allowed to find out the source of a journalist to share that knowledge with the police and OM. The Wiv also binds that consent to the consent of the court of The Hague. I had this as a question from Groothuizen, but it could also have been Van Nispen's. Excuse me, Madam President, for confusing that. Then members Van Nispen and Van der Graaf asked for the seal of documents until the judge-supervisor has decided. Yes, that is a regular practice that is also used in relation to documents that may be covered by the right of change of doctors or lawyers. In the context of the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the whole system of seizure of documents is being redesigned. It is therefore obvious to codify this practice as well. The reason for this is not that it would not go too well in practice otherwise. There's just no urgency to settle that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u163	I'd like a clarification. Does this mean that I can understand the Minister in such a way that the seal will be codified, but that this will be taken into account in the adaptation of the Code of Criminal Procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u164	Yeah, that's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u165	Yeah, let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u166	I said this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u167	The Minister only says: we are not going to take care of it now, because we do not see the need for it, but we will take it with us. So he's gonna take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u168	I said, it's obvious to codify that. I mean to make it absolutely clear that it is going to be codified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u169	Good. Thank you. I'll be well served.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u170	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u171	Why protection for publicists in very small circles? That is a question from Mr Van Dam and Mrs Yeşilgöz. Actually, I've already answered it. I'd like to keep it that way. Then there is the right to change imams and the like and the execution of the Tellegen motion. The motion calls for the right of change of Imams to be included in the proposals to amend the regime of the right of change in the context of the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In response to the proposals for the first and second books of the new Code of Criminal Procedure, a number of advisory bodies have also called for attention to the right to change imams. This subject certainly comes back to the proposals. Those are the ones I am going to say through you to Mrs Yeşilgöz, according to the January 2019 consultation section of the Council of State. They will then be sent to the House of Representatives. In the meantime, you have noticed that at least we continue to act with the necessary force against hate images. Then there was a request from Mr Groothuizen and also from the SP: why not one national court commissioner, because there is so little recourse to source protection? The frequency of cases is so low that a specialised judge commissioner would not build up sufficient experience in two to three years. So I could argue this as an argument, but I think it is more important that this is about the content of a proportionality test, i.e. an assessment of necessity and proportionality. That is precisely a core task of a judge or of a judge commissioner. I don't think I need to explain that to the experts present here. The decision on the use of a coercive measure and an appeal to the right of withdrawal by a doctor or lawyer also have such a test. That was already outlined by Van Dam. So that's the reason why we don't do it that way. This is not about, for example, a tenancy room or an enterprise room, which deals with a whole package of cases of one type of content, but it is simply a primary competence of judges, which belongs to their competence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u172	The first argument sounds a little strange to me. Suppose you're a judge commissioner in the south of the country, you do that for five years, and in that period, a case like this comes along once. Or maybe you're a specialized judge commissioner and maybe you don't see a lot of such cases, but five times in those five years, I'd say, at least you'll have more experience and knowledge in that area. So I cannot quite follow that argument, but perhaps the second argument is more important. I understand that it is a balance of proportionality, in which, of course, all kinds of general criminal law matters play a role. For example, you are talking about experience in criminal matters, which is well attended by the judge commissioner. But that might make this debate a little bit clear, too. Of course, there is also a very clear journalistic aspect to it. When are you gonna fall under this? How do we limit that now? What are these interests for journalism? The fact that we have been dealing with a man or eight about this for some time now might indicate that it is rather complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u173	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u174	Isn't that the right reason to strive for some kind of specialization?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u175	First of all, let's talk about the first point. I think there is also a proportionality element in this. Whether it's once every five years, or five times every five years, the latter doesn't build up such extra skills that you have to say, "Well, we'll let that be the deciding factor in that proportionality test, so that there's only one judge commissioner to come up with." The second point on the question of whether you should make a certain, very good journalistic assessment is that it is ultimately, as I said at the beginning of my speech, about the importance of finding the truth in criminal law. That really is a basic skill of judges, with in that context the assessment of source protection. I have just said that this is a kind of right of replacement, which is, in a way, comparable to the right to change in certain professional professions. The judge should be skilled in making a necessity test. That's not so much because the judge has a lot of journalistic experience. I just don't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u176	I do not think this is so much about journalistic experience. In my view, this is what the Minister rightly says about weighing up the importance of finding the truth against the general interest of protecting sources. That is often not so much in the specific case. The point is more that in general you want to prevent sources from drying up, as it were, because they are too easily lying on the street. The latter is perhaps a more specific consideration, which is not very common in criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u177	But you know, every right to change applies to certain aspects of the underlying profession. Then we could at some point say: we let the North Netherlands court do all the doctors and those of the South Netherlands all the lawyers. But no, and as Minister of Justice, I really have a view on that. I believe that every competent judge is able to say 'is', because we have a very good judiciary in the Netherlands to take the proportionality test itself. I also think it is very sensible that it should be done throughout the country and that a journalist from De Limburger should be able to do so to his local judge, just like a journalist from the Dagblad van het Noorden to his local judge, or anywhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u178	I'd like to introduce... On this point, Mr Van Nispen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u179	I don't think it's wise. I also think it is a very heavy responsibility to judge the breach of source protection. I have also just asked the Minister to come back to this question. Why did he choose to invest the sister law, the drag law, at the council chamber in The Hague? Then why would this law be a bad idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u180	Because there is something quite different going on, which I will not go into in detail, since we are not talking about this today, namely the Wiv 2017. We are not talking about that today, but I have always explained that before the AIVD can tap or anything about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u181	That is a repeat of an earlier answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u182	Yeah, then you have to take those two thresholds. I'm going back to this law. I believe that every competent judge in the Netherlands can make a proper assessment of whether a witness, being a journalist or a publicist, deserves source protection in criminal proceedings. I'm sure of it. I also welcome this in the context of uniform legal protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u183	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u184	I would have come to the amendments, if that's all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u185	Yeah, exactly, that's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u186	I could imagine you wanted to go there. The amendment in part No. 7 of GroenLinks contains the proposal to delete the section "on condition that the provision cannot be traced back to them." Although I sympathise very much with what Mr De Roon said about the fact that if you followed all the amendments, it would be a very short piece of legislation, I can say that I would like to pass judgment on this part of the amendment to the Chamber. The original applicant said that she was not convinced of the usefulness of the addition and that even in the event that the source had not expressly stipulated confidentiality, journalists themselves should decide not to reveal the origins. I just want to explain why I recorded it. This has been done as a counterpart to the concept of "trust" of the classic secretists when it comes to information provided in a particular capacity. There have sometimes been issues of people speaking to a journalist in a broad sense and later faced with the publication and the statements. It seems right to me that a source also ensures that there can be no misunderstanding about the status of the information he has provided. The study committee pointed out that the guidance for journalism interpreted this more widely. It may also be someone to whom the journalist has pledged confidentiality or someone from whom the journalist knew or could know that this information has been provided in the expectation that his identity would not be disclosed. On second thought, I think it is primarily a question of the source of the journalist. So I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 10 by Mr Van Nispen, which seeks to delete the phrase 'in the context of free news'. I would advise against this amendment. I think this is just the essential element with which you clearly frame journalists and publicists. These must be activities carried out in the context of free news gathering. It indicates that source protection is mainly intended to ensure that the press can act as a watchdog in a democratic society. So it is not a question of wipes, but of contributing to the public debate that benefits society as a whole. If we delete the phrase 'in the context of free news', then source protection will apply to all kinds of undifferentiated communications, the usefulness of which cannot be foreseen in advance. I must confess that I myself have never come this far to consult a beauty blog. So exactly what that means, I have been deprived of it; it may have something to do with her manners. I really want to emphasise here that in the interpretation of the Supreme Court and the European Court of Justice, source protection has always been against the background of news gathering. And we really need to hold that together. Further reference is made by Mr Van Nispen to the Study Committee on Journalism Source Protection, but I do not see any confusion between publicists who publish in the context of news garage and scientists and employees of NGOs who publish. I hope that I have addressed Mrs Buitenweg's point sufficiently clearly by saying that it does include them. I would advise against this amendment. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer This is intended to prevent the wide use of powers to retrieve historical data to identify a source of someone who can claim source protection. Camera footage of conversations or meetings of journalists could only be requested at the request of the Public Prosecutor with the permission of the Judge Commissioner. I don't want to say yes to that. I would like to point out that getting video from public space is something other than the ban on obtaining traffic data from a journalist. When requesting traffic data, it is absolutely foreseeable that an image of the journalist's possible sources will be obtained. The application of other powers is different. The main aim of this legislative proposal is to provide additional protection to journalists and their sources in order to receive and provide information or ideas freely, without interference from the public authorities. Then it's about freedom of news garage. That does not, of course, have to be the subject of any research involving or visualizing a journalist. So I am not in favour of that, as far as the amendment goes that way. I would also like to point out that, according to existing policies, any use of coercive measures against journalists is subject to restraint, but this does not alter the fact that the request for security cameras from public space is something other than the ban on requesting traffic data. But I would like to say this to you. I cannot therefore see the short-term consequences of this. However, I am prepared to go through this matter again with those involved in the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. Then perhaps it could be associated with the new Code of Criminal Procedure and integrated with the new powers. It may also address any adjustment of the existing review framework of the College of Attorneys General. I am prepared to do so, but at the moment I can only discourage the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u187	Clear. Mr Grothuizen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u188	Yeah, a quick question. Of course, there are two different things involved. In one case, for example, you ask a journalist directly for his phone records; in the other case, you ask that journalist for camera images of his meeting with someone at café De Nieuwe Wereld at a certain time. If you get that footage, I think you have the same risk, which is that those data could lead to disclosure of who exactly was the source of that journalist. That's the point. You can make the same provision for that as you yourself have in Article 126n.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u189	I'd be repeating myself. The example of the public road is something else. When a journalist and his source suddenly come into the picture, we are talking about a very different situation than when a journalist is summoned as a witness or using camera images directed at that journalist. Once again, I dissuade the amendment, but I would like to say that I am going to work with the judiciary and the prosecutor's office to look at it again in the context of criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u190	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u191	I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer You have proposed replacing "Judge Commissioner" with "Judge Court The Hague." In addition, you have made a proposal to replace the assessment criterion when answering questions that are essential for preventing or resolving serious crimes in which a prison sentence of at least four years has been imposed if the information requested cannot reasonably be obtained in any other way. Look, this amendment by Mrs Buitenweg extends the possibility of a successful use of source protection spectacularly to all the expressions that someone chooses to make public and all the data that sources have provided. That goes far too far, precisely in the context of the importance of truth finding and the balance between the truth finding in criminal proceedings and source protection. I really need to dissuade it from all parts. Ad 1: The replacement of the judge-supervisor by the multiple chamber in the investigation is a major system breach with the way in which the various far-reaching powers that can be applied in the context of criminal investigations can be reviewed. You know what the role of the judge commissioner is aimed at. I am not going to explain this entirely here, and I would like to spare you that, but it is aimed at assessing the proportionality and subsidiarity of powers in a concrete criminal case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u192	Please continue with the following amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u193	Parts A and C contain elements which are also included in other amendments. I have already discussed them, so I will not go into them in detail. Of the addition under B I do not see the added value. I don't think it's necessary. The proposed amendment to the assessment criterion is based on an explanation of the 2000 Council of Europe recommendations. That was a long time ago in media country information. The criterion proposed by me is simply in line with the case law of the European Court of Justice and also indicates that the social importance of news gathering and informing the public, by definition, weighs very heavily on what you may believe from me, and that the duty to speak for the witnesses must be weighed against it in the interests of the response to the criminal case. I shall be the last to touch on the amendment to item No. 16. That's where I actually...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u194	We also have the amendment to item No. 14 by Mr Van Dam. Can we do that? Isn't it? I thought you'd come back to that, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u195	Yes. The amendment in part No. 14 by Mr Van Dam, excuse. I would advise against this amendment. I've said a lot about why. It's been extended to the publicists. I hope to have convinced Mr Van Dam that the one-off vlogger or the mere opinions and emotions expressing vlogger are not included. The last amendment tabled by Mr Van Nispen, formerly the Van Nispen/Elias amendment, I do not recommend. I have in fact already given my reasons when discussing the amendment to item No. 7. I wanted to leave it at that in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u196	Thank you. Mr. Van Nispen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u197	I wonder if something's going wrong. I think that the Minister had the amendment in part No. 7 was left to the judgment of the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 16 contains an identical part of the amendment to item No. 7, i.e. the condition that the supply cannot be traced back to them. That explicit condition...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u198	No, you're right, judge Second Chamber. You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u199	Look, that's fast, Mr. Chairman! We do that all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u200	Very good that you're still sharp, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u201	I hope that Mr van Nispen will forgive me through you, Mr President. It was the amendment in part No. 11, then it became the amendment to item No. 12 and now it is the amendment to item No. 16. All in all, I'm leaving judgment to the Chamber with this horse jump.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u202	Yes, amendments are often amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u203	I'm through, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u204	Yeah, I noticed that. Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. There's a need for a little suspension, I see. Then I suggest we suspend for five minutes. Five minutes, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u205	I give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u206	Mr President, thank you very much, and thank you for the short suspension to find out. Thank you to the Minister for answering the many questions. I think we have had a nice substantive debate on this important issue today. I fully agree with the Minister when he says that we must take account of the dynamics of our times. That's why it's good that we bring the category of publicists. Not only an established journalist, but also, for example, an NGO employee, as the minister said, or an anti-corruption activist, an example that I used myself should be able to claim source protection under circumstances. Free news gathering is indeed not exclusively reserved for journalists. It is also good that the Minister confirms that source protection also exists if, for whatever reason, it is not published. It's certainly a good thing we got that clear. This also applies to the section "subject to condition." I understand that the Minister understands that it is better to delete that element 'provided that the provision cannot be traced back to them', because it may only lead to confusion. I have two other points to make, first of all with regard to Amendment No 2. 7. I heard the minister say "judge chamber." I heard him explicitly refer to part 1, but I did not hear him explicitly refer to the parts under 2, list 1a to e. I wonder if it's convenient to define all these things explicitly. Or is it convenient to leave them to the practice? I would like a response from the Minister to know how he opposes that part of the amendment to item No. Seven looking at it. Finally, my own amendment. Maybe it's just speech confusion or maybe we have a different view; that too could be. It is not my concern that the police and the justice system should always go to the judge's commissioner for an authorization because it could possibly include a journalist. That would definitely turn the world upside down. It matters to me that you do walk that road when you know, or have a pretty good idea, that it's about a journalist. Then I think you have the same situation as the histoprints. In my view, that is the spirit of the amendment. That is why it also says: "If the claim relates to a person entitled to protection of the source'. I'm asking the Minister to take another look at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u207	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u208	I welcome the fact that we have discussed this important law today, because, as I have said, it is one of the essence of the freedom of the press that journalists cannot be forced to make their sources public. I welcome the Minister's view on the terms "journalist" and "publicist." In any case, the Minister does not explain the concepts as narrowly as I feared, namely so that, for example, the non-governmental organisation or the historian who did the research would not be included. Fortunately, that is the case. The NGO also includes, like the citizen publicist, someone who writes about political or topical issues. The Minister could have left it at that, as far as I am concerned, with "journalist or publicist." The amendment in which I propose to delete the term 'in the context of news gathering' is precisely because the Minister had stated in the note on the basis of the report that it was therefore also about someone who writes about political or topical matters. Is that always in the context of news gathering? I was genuinely wondering. That is why I thought it would be less confusing to table that amendment, thus deleting the concept of 'news gathering'. I still think so. I therefore maintain that amendment, even though unfortunately the Minister did not recommend it. I'm reassured at the point of hearing again and again. If the journalist or publicist does not respect ethical standards and, for example, does not apply hearing and hearing, then the right to change will not automatically lapse. I would ask you to confirm this one more time, and I will not table a motion on this matter. If the journalist or publicist does not comply with the principles of hearing and hearing, then the right to protect the sources does not automatically lapse. If the Minister can confirm that, I am reassured on that point, because in that particular case, of course, we will leave that to the judge. I had also prepared a motion on the sealing of information. I know that the Minister has said that he will return to this in the context of the modernisation of criminal proceedings. I think that is too long, but I also heard the Minister say that it is already established practice. So, of course, there's a judicial test before we reveal the information, before the identity of the sources is revealed. Let me get this straight. So the Minister is actually saying: we codify something, but in practice we actually do that already? He says, "We're ahead of what we're going to codify later?" That's what I'm asking for confirmation. Finally, I would like to say that I remain of the opinion that it would be better if the council chamber in The Hague were to rule on the breach of professional secrecy. That is a very heavy responsibility. I think it's appropriate that we burden the multiple chamber with that heavy responsibility. That is, in fact, a concentration of the case law. I am still considering submitting the amendment in particular with GroenLinks. Whether or not this is an amended amendment, we shall consider it. However, it may well be that we will come back to that, because the vote on this is not until next Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u209	This is an amendment, I understand, not a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u210	No, it's not about a motion. I had prepared it, but I think it belongs in the law, so that could be another amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u211	Yeah, that's good. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u212	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The big question is whether the Minister has convinced the Christian Union Group this evening. I'm not gonna give you the redeeming answer to that question yet. I take it back to my group. But this debate and the exchange of views that has taken place here today have certainly helped to guide us in making the final assessment. For us, it is important to codify the right to protection of sources in the context of free news garage. That gives legal protection, legal certainty. That is our priority when we consider this bill. We therefore attach great importance to the phrase 'in the context of a free news gathering'. The Minister has also stressed this very strongly this evening. It is a special right and a special protection, and we must keep it special. Mr President, as far as we are concerned, it must not be time-bound. The argument of time and context should not be decisive for an assessment of this bill. At the same time, we cannot ignore the time and context in which we must also make these considerations. I still have to say that the opinion of the Council of State is actually dismissed as 'just looking at a professional approach'. Because the Council of State does go further in its opinion and also looks at the journalistic function. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to reflect on this point. In fact, we still have the impression that the opinion of the Council of State has been ignored too quickly and that this is not sufficiently involved in the deliberations that have finally been made. I'll leave it at that for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u213	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers he has given. I must also say that he has convinced me when it comes to Article 218a and certainly that first sentence. All those things that are in it, journalist, publicist; I'm very happy that they stay in it. I am glad that the Minister also says: I am looking at modern developments and how people are getting their news now. It's not just through journalists anymore, it's through other people. And the Minister has convinced me this evening that the words 'in the context of news gathering' are part of it. After hearing his speech, I do think that is something we should not delete. We are talking about the amendment tabled by Van Nispen and others who say: relax those conditions that the source itself must have said that he wants to remain secret. They say: just limit that to what the journalists already do with 'knowing or knowing'. I have to tell you that I do not really want journalists to be able to hide behind the story: that source did not specifically say that he wanted to remain secret, but I do think that I should assume that. That's pretty easy. So I would like that phrase to be retained, even though the Minister is now giving judgment to the Chamber. Let me come back to Mr Grothuizen's amendment to item No. 13, because I hadn't been so clear about that. I must say that I am convinced, so I shall propose to my group that we go along with that amendment. I would like to say a few words about Mrs Buitenweg's amendment to item No. 15: the desire to scale up the court commissioner, who may make certain decisions, to the multiple chamber. Honestly, I don't think that's necessary. I have sufficient faith in those judges' commissioners in the country. I would also like to point out that these judges in the country do not function as isolated islands either. They have a lot of contact with each other. Especially when it comes to something as brittle as source protection, the judge Commissioner in Maastricht really knows very well what the judge Commissioner in Alkmaar has done in a similar case. So I don't need that concentration in The Hague either. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u215	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought I'd bring in the Intelligence and Security Services Act just to be safe. First of all, I am going to say something else about the whole discussion about journalists, publicists and so on. I was pleased with the Minister's answers, which are also very enthusiastic. As soon as it's about case law, something goes wrong with him. Can he convince us, too? I will give some thought to some of the amendments. With regard to the Judge Commissioner, I am indeed considering tabling another amendment to deal only with that last piece. Let's talk about the Wiv. The Minister says that data is indeed safe in criminal matters. I think we need to distinguish a few things. That is what I tried to do in my speech. When it comes to matters such as observation and tracking and very targeted tapping, it is true that permission should be sought from the judge. That's what it says in here. But there are also agreements that you can get data as bulk. I had set an example in the vicinity of the Volkskrant. Then you collect all kinds of data, including data that you see a leak between a journalist and the AIVD. That's something that brings you up. That is already upstairs; no journalist has yet been involved. The second example I gave relates to the unevaluated data going to foreign services. That's what it says here, in Article 89 and beyond. That unevaluated is a box that is empty, and the Minister must give permission as to whether the foreign service to which that information is given is sufficiently reliable and so on. So that's what the Minister's permission looks like. But the Minister does not, of course, agree whether this specific information should also be given to a foreign service in the context of our image of source protection. So it may well be that there is information that we here would give in criminal law protection according to the law that we are discussing here. But we transfer that information to a foreign service, and that is where it can end up in criminal law. That's the point I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u217	Were you ready, Mrs. Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u218	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u219	I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Dam for a brief interruption, because this is the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u220	I note that where the Minister gets enthusiastic about case law, Mrs Buitenweg gets enthusiastic about the Wiv. We are talking all evening about European case law, which means that we in the Netherlands have to lay down in the law that we must provide source protection for journalists. The same applies in all the other countries in Europe. Would you like to include this in your fears about the use of this kind of information in foreign criminal law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u221	Mrs. Buitenweg, short response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u222	Firstly, it is not the case in all European countries at the moment, so there is a problem. But we are not just passing on data to European countries. We also pass on data to, for example, the United States. At the moment, they are not very much in the process of implementing the European Convention on Human Rights. What we are doing here, I applaud. That's what I just said. However, there are a few big holes in the Wiv regarding the source protection of the journalists. I think it's the very honest story of admitting that here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u223	Mr. Van Dam, I think this discussion is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u224	If Mrs Buitenweg shares that with you, I will not ask any further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u225	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now turn to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA. I had the impression he'd already been, but he's not. He'd been interrupting so many times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u226	Mr. Chairman. I think we can be quite happy here tonight with the very substantive and respectful way in which we are discussing such an important issue. I also have the idea that, if we were to continue talking, we might also be very much in agreement with each other in terms of content. This is particularly true when we place journalism at the centre of our work. If we put the European case law mentioned by the Minister at the heart of the matter, I think we will come to an end. Therefore, it is not a matter of stubbornness, but precisely because I think it is important to limit the discussion to the journalistic function, that I stick to my proposal to erase 'publicist' out of the legislative proposal. In addition to my earlier term, I would also like to draw your attention to the following fact for the other four professions set out in the case law. For example, a doctor has a right to change. In some cases this is extended to the midwife. That is a well-known example in the case law. This applies if the midwife carries out activities in line with the work of the doctor or under the responsibility of the doctor. I think that's the way it should be with regard to the term "journalist." Let's be clear about what we're doing that for. And when it comes to expanding it, it's better to expand it than to start very widely. That's how I look at it. I would just like to make a few comments on the amendments. D66-Mr Groothuizen has tabled an amendment on camera footage. To be honest, I think it makes sense for him to submit it. I understand that amendment in such a way that, if there is a specific chance that a source will appear with camera images, it would be perfectly logical that the proposal that is before us should include that additional test by the Judge Commissioner. So I can imagine. I will therefore advise my group to support that. As far as the rc and the council chamber are concerned, I would like to point out that the test that the rc must take is based on the file. He has to take his arguments out of the investigation to make a trade-off. That very much justifies that it stays with the rc that does it, but also to stay in the system that you can appeal to the council room. If you start at the council room, where do you have to go for the apple? Those were my comments. I see I'm out of time by now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u227	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. Finally, Mrs Yeşilgöz on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You have heard me say it earlier this evening: granting a right of pardon means limiting criminal investigations and finding the truth. That is therefore a heavy privilege, a special right for a specific group. Tonight we discussed how to give generous protection to the watchdogs of our free democracy. In doing so, I would like to avoid the issue of publicist/journalist. Anyone could be covered by that. The Minister has tried very well to explain what the focus is on, what it is about and what the core is. Thank you for that. I have heard many elements that I would like to hear, such as the journalistic function and the news gathering. It was also about the journalistic codes, which should be respected, even though they were not fully delineated and written down. I continue to have questions about the law when it is used in practice. I have a motion for that, so that we can see in a few years' time whether the law will indeed work out as we hope tonight. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas freedom of expression and freedom of the press are fundamental pillars of our democracy;]] [[Whereas source protection is a basic condition for journalists and publicists to be able to do their work;]] [[noting that journalists and publicists are professionals;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to prevent abuse of the law;]] [[calls on the Government to review the law within three years of its entry into force in order to assess whether the law is being applied for appropriate purposes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34032-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u229	I ask the Members of Parliament to sit down and give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If it's all right with you, I'd like to discuss it a little bit thematically. First of all, Mr Groothuizen referred to points 1a to e (2) of the amendment to item No. 7, but I have just used the term "publicist" and explained again that that can be someone from, for example, Greenpeace or another NGO. That makes this addition a to e, and hence the amendment, superfluous, so I advise against it. Then Mr Van Nispen pointed out that the fact that there was no hearing and no hearing should not determine a successful recourse to source protection. Yes, I have already mentioned this in my first-term replies. It is an overall sufficient investigation and careful action. That's a judge's decision, not mine. MP Van der Graaf asked why I didn't take the advice of the Council of State anymore today. That is how I see it, because I believe that my predecessor in office in the further report has really gone into the considerations of the Council of State in detail. For the sake of efficient treatment, I admit that today I am mainly in line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe, the case law of the European Court and the need for the deviation from, or non-comparability with, the Wiv 2017. I cannot add anything to that, but I would like to ask you, through the President, to take another look at what my predecessor has said about this in detail in that more detailed report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u231	One short question, Mrs Van der Graaf, no discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u232	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It is indeed aimed at the minister's predecessor and the documents we have received from him. On the one hand, the Council of State's arguments were discussed in detail. On the other hand, we do not think that the Council of State's line of reasoning is sufficiently involved in this. One example is that it is very quickly overlooked that the Council of Europe's recommendation in the year 2000 was focused on the new era, the Internet, social media and new developments. On the contrary, the Council of State is very much involved in its consideration. The point of the journalistic function, therefore, is not only to look professionally, but also to draw much more broadly into the content of the opinion of the Council of State. Those are the two points where our hesitation was.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u233	You made those points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u234	I have already said a few things about this in the first period, including the fact that the story from 2000 is dated in some respects. However, I have indicated in particular that this is how I started; perhaps I did this a little short, because Mr Van Nispen had already given that introduction: we actually came to codify this with each other on the basis of much more recent case-law of the European Court of Justice. You must do so in a way that is very much in line with current developments and the foreseeable future developments in the media landscape. I believe that this has been done in a good and balanced way and that the points of the Council of State have also been taken into account. With your permission, my predecessor and I may, on some points, make other arguments more important than the Council of State. I can't make it more beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u235	I believe that this point has been sufficiently changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u236	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u237	Thank you. Then I suggest the Minister move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u238	Then seal the pieces. For the sake of clarity, I have said that this is the established practice, which is also used in relation to documents which may be covered by the right to be changed by doctors or lawyers. I would like to repeat that for the sake of clarity for Mr Van Nispen. I also repeat that this will soon be codified in the modernisation of criminal proceedings. I come to Mrs Buitenweg on the Wiv. Today, at most, it is in the derivative, lateral sense about the Wiv 2017, but I would just like to say that in the absence of the Wiv itself, you have said that you are doing that law wrong with regard to the guarantees for journalists. The Wiv has, as you know, an additional guarantee for lawyers and journalists. Then there is the supervisory committee and then there are the thresholds of the Minister of the Interior and then the court of The Hague. I would also like to have said out loud that, in his last consideration, the court must, of course, consider the extent to which it is sufficiently guaranteed that the data collection required by the AIVD will not be used improperly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u239	No, Mrs. Buitenweg, I'm sorry. We're really not gonna argue about that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u240	As a lawyer, I really think it's a very secure arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u241	Mrs. Buitenweg, we're not going to discuss the WIV and this bill again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u242	I won't ask a question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u243	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u244	I just want to say that this is not an answer to the question I asked, because the question I asked was about the black box. The Minister's answer is always about concrete and targeted tapping. Yeah, there's a judicial test on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u245	Then you made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u246	I accept, however, that I did answer that question, but that was in my last sentence, in which I said that I entirely assume that the court of The Hague will ensure in its review that the AIVD guarantees that the black box referred to by Mrs Buitenweg is either not on the agenda or that if it is there, it will not lead to improper use.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u247	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u248	Finally, I come to the motion for a resolution on part No. 17 by Mrs Yeşilgöz. I must honestly say that I welcome that motion. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u249	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u250	I may have missed it, but I thought I had asked the Minister to respond to my amendment, also in response to the comments of the PVV and the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u251	What number was it again, Mr. Groothuizen? 13? Yes. And reflection can also be very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u252	I would like to reflect on that briefly. I continue to believe that it is too far-reaching at the moment to apply the written authorisations to them in a general sense. Once again, I do not think we can see exactly what that would mean for situations. I have mentioned the examples of the journalist and/or his source in public space. I also promised that I would find this really something to clarify in the context of criminal proceedings in consultation with the prosecution and the judiciary. It is too far-fetched now, as suggested in the amendment to item No. 13 to be written down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u253	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u254	I'm sure there's still time for a happy announcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u255	Tell me!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u256	In the amendment to item No. 10 I proposed that the addition "in the context of news gathering" should be deleted from the term "publicist." But actually there is no difference of opinion anymore about the fact that it should be publicists who write about political and topical issues. My goal was to avoid confusion. But now I realize that maintaining this amendment may only lead to more confusion. That is why I have decided to accept the amendment to item No. 10 to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u257	The Van Nispen amendment (Doc. 10) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-24.u258	I thank the Minister. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament, the staff and the people who have followed this debate via the Internet or another medium. We will vote on the legislative proposal, the amendments tabled and the motion next Tuesday.
