ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next general consultation report is on the National Housing Agenda 2018-2021 and I would like to be the first to give the floor to Mr Smeulders, who speaks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. During the debate on the National Housing Agenda, we came to talk about sustainability at some point. The energy transition and the sustainability of the built environment is, I think, one of the priorities of this cabinet. I'm glad. I also know the Minister as a ruler who really pays attention to that. That is why we found it rather strange that the Minister indicated that housing corporations should not play a leading role in the sustainability of the built environment. We didn't quite understand that. We had a little debate on that. Mr Koerhuis was also surprised. We do not often agree on things, Mr Koerhuis and I, when it comes to living, but we have made a motion together on this subject and I am happy to read it out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, as the Netherlands, we have signed the Paris Climate Agreement;]] [[noting that in order to meet these commitments, it is important to make many sectors more sustainable, including the built environment;]] [[Whereas housing corporations are a large, well-organised player in the Dutch housing market;]] [[points out that housing corporations must continue to play a leading role in the sustainability of the built environment because of their scale, organisation and financial resources;]] [[calls on the government to agree on this subject with housing corporations in the framework of the climate agreement and to continue to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smeulders and Mr Koerhuis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-446]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. There's a huge shortage of houses. The VVD doesn't think we can wait long to increase the new production. That is why we welcome the Minister's National Housing Agenda. But the VNG doesn't sign off. If the VNG is an organisation, the minister should do business directly with the municipalities themselves. Amsterdam and Utrecht, which now seem difficult to do, can then literally and figuratively be better left behind. We cannot allow the whole country to suffer from the lobby of those two major left-wing cities. In addition, we must also bear in mind the role of provinces. Most municipalities want to build houses, but provinces do not. The role of provinces should be to facilitate housing construction. This means overprogramming, and broadening living arrangements and red and green contours. I understand that the Minister is already investigating this in connection with the Ronnes/Koerhuis motion to allow overprogramming and to remove housing from the Ladder for sustainable urbanisation. I am waiting for that research to come back to this with my colleague Ronnes of the CDA in the AO Bouwschappij. There will be no further motions on my part, except the motion tabled by Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks on behalf of the two of us, and the motion that Mr Ronnes of the CDA will be tabling on behalf of the two of us. That motion is about building sites and institutional investors in the middle segment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u4	There is a question for you from Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u5	That's right, Mr. Chairman. My question concerns the motion tabled by GroenLinks, also on behalf of Mr Koerhuis. Something is being said about the position of housing corporations on the housing market. It also says why they could play a major role in sustainability. One of the aspects is the financial position of corporations. If the Minister's research now shows that one of the elements that enables corporations to play a major role is deficits or problems, do you think that something should be done about this? Does your motion go as far as that? Or are you gonna leave that open?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u6	You're referring to the motion. First of all, I have confidence that corporations have more than enough money. They made 18 billion profits last year. So I don't see that problem right now, especially when we're just looking at sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u7	That's right. But my question is this. Suppose that research comes out that this is not the case and that there are deficits. So what's the VVD like in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u8	We have been to a debate in Amsterdam together. There are several buttons to turn on if there are any deficits despite these 18 billion euros. One of those buttons is the sale of expensive social rentals, so social rentals that are actually middle rentals and that you and I really care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you. Mrs Beckerman also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u10	I find this an interesting debate, because this is, of course, the heart of the matter. It's nice that the CDA is also critical. Your cabinet demands an additional 1 billion from all tenants, Mr. Koerhuis. It demands from tenants 1 billion extra taxes on top of all the taxes they already pay. And when municipalities get angry about that, you say: well, too bad, then they don't have to talk to them anymore. Is that really what you're saying, Mr. Koerhuis? Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u11	You say a lot of things, and some of them don't add up. First of all, the first point is not correct. We're not asking for a billion renters at all. There is a rent-a-rent tax: we ask for money from rent-a-renters. And now you can turn that around and pretend that's a tenant's tax, but we're asking for that money from landlords. I am not allowed to ask questions back here, but I am curious how the SP suddenly became the party of the landlords.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u12	I am asked a question, Mr President, so I hope this does not go from my opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u13	Just continue your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr. Koerhuis, do you know how those landlords get money? They come from the tenants, tenants who have to pay four months' rent directly to the state treasury at the end of this cabinet period. You are saying now that I really want to answer that there are municipalities that are angry about that, because they think that by using this range of cash they can build too little and make them more sustainable. You are now saying literally: the municipalities that are difficult about our policies should not be allowed to talk anymore. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u15	Now you're saying a lot. Some things are wrong, including the first thing you say: it is not that corporations only get money from tenants, they also make money from having real estate, especially expensive social housing. They've increased tremendously in value. If we sell it, the corporations have a lot of money back in the bank account, so they can do a lot of things. It's beautiful and I can't make it prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u16	One last comment, because you were asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u17	So you say: the towns that are in conflict are not allowed to talk anymore, and we are going for more segregation, because we are going to sell out those beautiful social rentals that are more expensive, because they are on good ground and at some more expensive locations. Isn't that why you're causing even more division? You have already pointed out in several studies that neighbourhoods are declining. That's exactly what you want to do now, isn't it? You get out of the tenants' greenhouse and then they have to give up their beautiful home, in which they have often lived for years, just to cause more division.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u18	If a greenhouse is already taken out, it's from corporations, not from tenants. About the expensive social housing: what I would like, along with you, is to solve the shortage of social housing. If you sell an expensive social housing and then, looking at Mr. Ronnes, create a middle-rental house and with the proceeds of it often can build back two, sometimes three times as many social housing, we can solve the shortages in the housing market. That's what I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you. You came to the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u20	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u21	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Living and the huge crisis in the housing market is a very important subject. Fortunately, we have a lot of debates on this. Last few days, I've made a lot of proposals. A number of motions will be put to the vote, and one was adopted yesterday. It is actually part of this debate, and that is my motion which has been adopted unanimously, unfortunately with the exception of the Forum for Democracy, which is about homeless people. The number of homeless people has almost doubled in seven years. The homeless shelter in the Netherlands is very crowded. The organisations speak of economic homeless people: people who have had some setbacks in their lives and who do not come out anymore. I am pleased and thank my colleagues for having adopted the Beckerman/Smeulders/Nijboer motion, except for one party. I would very much like to take advantage of this opportunity for the following. The minister has to work it out with others. It is about preventing homelessness and helping people who are now in the shelter to get back to a home and build a decent life. That's a human right. I understand the Minister needs to consult with others. That's the answer she often gives. But I would also like to hear what ideas she has in order to ensure that in seven years' time we can speak of at least half a cut, but I would actually like to go much further. Because in a rich country like ours, it's really absurd that the number of homeless people is increasing so much. What does the Minister intend to do to prevent homelessness? What does she want to do to help the current homeless? I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you. I call Mr Nijboer on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr. Chairman. We've been talking about living for quite some time this week, so I'm gonna stick to filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas valuation reports cost hundreds of euros;]] [[Whereas the value of valuation reports can be contested, as can also be seen from the Consumer Association's investigation;]] [[calls on the cabinet to engage with banks to ensure that people have lost less money on valuation reports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-447]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr. Ronnes, I thought you stood up for a question, but that's not the case. It's your turn to speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mr. Chairman. As a result of the general consultation, I submit the next motion, because there are legal and/or procedural obstacles which prevent the building of homes from being speeded up. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are legal and/or procedural obstacles to catching up on the number of dwellings to be built;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how better application and/or adaptation of legal rules can help to address the housing shortage effectively, at least in relation to:]] [[the removal of barriers at municipal level leading to the withdrawal of institutional investors in the mid-segment;]] [[flexible and more realistic rules on ecological and archaeological research for construction sites,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ronnes and Mr Koerhuis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-448]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mr Ronnes calls for flexible and more realistic ecological rules. I'm curious about that. What's that supposed to mean? Should this be at the expense of ecology and nature, or do you say: no, we really want that only to make it easier, but nature must not suffer under any circumstances?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u29	No, what matters is that the quality of that decision-making is not lost. In particular, it is a question of speeding up these procedures. There are a lot of time steps in such a procedure, which wastes precious time. What I would like is for that to be looked at critically, to see if you can shorten those procedures. We have also proposed, for example, for archaeology in the Environment Act, that investigations that are older be allowed to be used, that they are longer valid. That is such an example that you can prevent a new investigation from being carried out. You'll also save time if you can use that old report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u30	I am glad that Mr Ronnes says that it should not be about quality. So the Minister and all of us must interpret this motion in such a way that ecology, nature and animal welfare cannot, or may be reduced in any way by this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u31	No, as the CDA is always in it, it has to be weighed in a very realistic way in the overall process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u32	I don't quite understand the motion yet, hence a question about the archaeology part. In principle, I agree with you that much better archaeological research can be done in advance. It is a legal task, but a lot of municipalities have that task completely out of order. That's very painful. So I agree with you on that. But what I do not fully understand in the motion is that you say something about investigations that should be valid for longer and that that process can be shortened. What exactly do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u33	Actually, that's the example I just mentioned. It has been an amendment of my own hand, under the Environment Act, to ensure that municipalities have to indicate more in front of it whether the chance of finding archaeological finds is realistic, yes or no. The moment you get that right on the front, you can prevent costs from being incurred in a place where the chances of finding them are very small, without any reason. So if you send more to that at the front and have the municipality proactively direct that those reports are there, so that the insight is there, then you can trigger accelerations in building processes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u34	In part, I agree with Mr Ronnes. It's pretty bad with municipalities. They have a legal job, it's decentralised. There are a lot of good municipalities, but a lot of municipalities don't have good archaeological service. They often have cards. What I don't understand so well is this. The problem with archaeology, and that's very annoying, is that we're looking for something we didn't know we'd lost. We know from many places that there may not be anything, but in many places we doubt we will have to do real research. I would very much like to vote with your motion, but what I don't want is for you to cut back on that, because the most beautiful finds are often done in places where you don't expect it. That makes archaeology so beautiful. If you say, "I just want to help municipalities out," I'm in favour. But if you say "I want to cut down on good research into beautiful finds," you won't find me by your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u35	The motion is not meant to make it even more complex and last longer. It is precisely a question of making it more efficient. I'm going with the target. I can either want it or not, it just comes from higher regulation that you have a certain obligation as a country. So it's not entirely noncommittal. But look where you can set up more efficient regulations. You already want to presort, but I'd like to leave that with the Minister. I want her to take a broad look at this: how can you responsibly shorten and facilitate the procedures?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u36	Mrs Van Eijs has not had any input, but she has registered. You will therefore have the opportunity to intervene, Mrs Van Eijs, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Ronnes' request does raise questions. Who could be against more efficient procedures? It's hard, I think. Still, I'm worried about the ecology. You state: I do not want the quality to suffer. That seems to me to be a shared starting point. But how much profit do you expect to make, purely with this point? Isn't it true that construction has a lot of steps at all? The question is whether we are not going to turn in quality here for perhaps a very small piece of profit that only exists on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u38	This is back in the shooter's pits, and it is not realistic to look at how we have regulated our legislation. I think at this time when it's really necessary to build it, you need to see what obstacles there are. That's what you have to do on all aspects. A number of parties here in the Chamber immediately come out of their seats when a word is called "archeology" or "nature." From our stewardship, we as CDA certainly have a vision for that. It is important that this is protected, but we have to do so along the lines of realism and make sure that we don't just hang it on bureaucratic processes, so people have to sleep under a bridge right away. That is not what we are waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u39	I'm glad you're joining me with the parties that come out of their seats when it comes to ecology. That may well be true, but in that respect you have seen it well. I am also totally in favour of realism, but at the moment hopefully nobody is sleeping under a bridge because archaeological or ecological research may have taken a little longer. I would like to call on Mr Ronnes to remain realistic about how much time is actually being saved and how much nature needs to be lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u40	I recently spoke to an alderman who was working on a construction project: 45 homes. There were three trees on the edge of the grounds. Someone in the neighborhood called out that he had seen a bird; I think I called the animal in the AO. As a result, the process is only delayed for six months. That's just practice. Can we not see if, without compromising nature and archaeological opportunities, we can do this in a more practical, realistic way, so that we can build the homes that are badly needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes. You're at the end of your input, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u42	Well, almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u43	Did something suddenly come up? I had the impression you were ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u44	I have one minute and eight seconds to speak. I would normally have tabled a motion on the senior residences, asking the Minister to see if it would be possible to proceed with a tax reduction. Since we have already tabled a motion at the WHO together with the other coalition parties to cover this aspect, I am not going to table a motion at this time and I am just waiting to see what will come out of the Minister's hands as a result of the previous motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u45	That brings us to the end of the Chamber's term. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u46	Thank you very much. I will pass by the speakers, the members of the Chamber, and then I will come to the motions that have been tabled. I shall begin with Mr Smeulders. He tabled one motion in which he reminded us of the small debate we had on the role of housing corporations. Actually, I think now that we're a little further, we're getting closer and closer. Housing corporations play a very important role in the Netherlands, even in terms of sustainability, if only because of the scale they have and the number of homes they own. I have, of course, pointed out that housing companies also have other tasks, such as ensuring the affordability of housing and ensuring more social housing at all, but Mr Smeulders will certainly agree with that. Now that Mr Smeulders and Mr Koerhuis have found each other in this motion, can it not be other than that I leave the judgment to the Chamber with a very calm heart? Mr Koerhuis did not actually ask any questions, because he said he was waiting for the report on the planning capacity before he would like to discuss it again. I appreciate that. I think that's the right order. Furthermore, I will leave his comments on left-wing and right-wing municipalities for a moment, because as Minister for Foreign Affairs I am only dealing with municipalities and I am not very interested in their colour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u47	Before you proceed, there is a question from Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u48	I understand the second, but I'll come back to that first. We are indeed waiting with regret for the construction report that could come literally today or tomorrow. My question is: what about the Ronnes/Koerhuis motion to allow overprogramming and to look at housing in the Ladder of sustainable urbanization? We are also waiting for a letter from the Minister on this. I am waiting for this in particular before considering further steps on overprogramming, living arrangements and red and green contours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u49	I understand that Mr Koerhuis is impatient and that he is asking this question, but I think it is best to wait for the report. The State of the Housing Market, which is indeed coming, will give him much more insights. I think it would be good to come back to this point next time we talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u50	Well, I'm not entirely comfortable with that. If it's okay, we'll talk about that construction report next week. However, I would like to have the Minister's commitment to return to the Ronnes/Koerhuis motion on overprogramming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u51	I can promise you that, because that's connected, I'd almost say. But to what extent Mr Koerhuis is then satisfied, I must of course leave him to his assessment, because he must be patient for that. Mr. Chairman. Then I will continue with the next speaker. That was Mrs. Beckerman from the SP. I can congratulate her on the broad support for her motion. I had also expressed my sympathy for the motion. It's also true that I'm not on my own. That is rarely the case, and perhaps it is a good thing. But in this case it is very important to involve the Secretary of State of VWS. I believe that we cannot and do not want to do it from The Hague alone. The municipalities are of course important in this respect. The corporations themselves are important to this. So I'm gonna do what I can from that part. We also discussed it during the legislative consultation. The Christian Union has drawn attention to this. I also promised a letter on that. The motion has therefore been adopted fresh from the press here, but the work is of course already under way. We are going to see how, thanks to Mrs Beckerman's motion, we can organise and organise this even better. But I fully support the goal. Mr. Chairman. Then I am with Mr Nijboer, who, by means of his motion in part No. 447 attention requested for appraisal reports. I'm glad he's also saying that valuation reports cost money. He's talking about hundreds of euros. That's right. When we had a little debate on the reduction of the NHG premium, we also discussed hundreds of euros, so I am very pleased that Mr Nijboer is aware of this. I'm already talking about the quality of the valuation reports. There's a trajectory for that, too. I could well link Mr Nijboer's question to that. For that reason, I could leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I am with Mr Ronnes, who, together with Mr Koerhuis, tabled the motion for a resolution. 448. Mr Ronnes often calls attention to obstructive rules. It is also a recurring topic for me in the discussions I have with regions in the wide-ranging reflection of all parties on living and building. When it comes to the Ladder for sustainable urbanisation and the actual laws that exist, including the Flora and fauna law, it is often also due to the lack of sufficient knowledge to do what can be done. So it's also about customization and the space that the regulation does provide. I have already promised in the progress of the housing agenda to bring that space to the fore, so to take real parties into account how much space there is in that regulation for application. That's what I'm gonna do. I am also aware of the Van Eijs/Ronnes motion, which calls for the prevention of obstacles in the search for reasonable rental levels of new buildings. That is also mentioned in the motion. In short, the motion calls for an investigation and for consideration to be given to a number of issues in that investigation. I believe that the motion does not prejudge what should happen to these subjects. It is also a subject that I am trying to bring to the attention of the House. For that reason, my conclusion is that I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u52	Then we came to the end of this VAO on the National Housing Agenda. I thank the Minister and the members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-4.u53	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments, because the next item is the budget debate on Foreign Affairs.
