ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on a debt industry and the Manifest Debt-free! I would like to welcome my fellow Members. The same applies to the directors present here: the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, I would like to give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the Socialist Party. Like all other speakers, he has three minutes' speaking time in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Being poor is getting more expensive. We saw that in the television series Guilty and we read that in the Manifest Debt Free!. These two cases have rightly received a lot of publicity. Over 1 million people have problematic debts and that group is growing. Such a debt often conceals a world of human suffering and also a lot of money. The debt industry amounts to as much as EUR 11 billion a year. Read the manifesto with 30,000 signatures we received on Tuesday. The cabinet comes with a broad debt approach in the spring. That is good, and we want to give the government a number of points today. First of all... Fine wrong collection agencies. It is impossible for debt collection agencies to charge costs to people who are in debt which they are not allowed to charge under the law at all. The worst thing is that these collection agencies have never been fined for that. Make sure that these malpractices are a thing of the past, as stated in the Van Dijk/Van Dijk motion (PvdA/SP): tackle these collection agencies. By default, impose a fine on these types of criminal practices. Second. Debts have become big business. Incassocowboys buy up debts as a earning model and then collect them aggressively. We say: ban the resale of private debts. Third. If someone in debt enters a relief path, the aid workers will make arrangements with the creditors. But if there is one unwilling creditor, the entire route will be blocked with a veto. In line with the manifesto, we want to reverse this. Declare those agreements automatically and binding if two thirds of the creditors agree. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look at the Swedish model where debts end up in one hand? Fourth. The bridle-free foot. Creditors are obliged to respect them, but it is easy to circumvent them by means of the so-called bank attachment. Is the government going to come up with a proposal this year to close that shortcut? Fifth. We also call for accessible debt relief. Read the Ombudsman's report this week. Get to work on those recommendations. I've been pleading for a debt relief line myself. It could be called "115 to be blamed." Parties have started working on this, for example the Stichting SchulendeBaas. Is the government prepared to support that initiative? Sixth. The government is the greatest culprit. She's actually bribing herself with debts. A collection agency may charge 15% collection fees, but for example, the Central Justice Collection Agency can count on a traffic penalty of no less than 300%. When it comes to the care premium, people who are late pay an extra quarter of the care premium, every month. That's the penance of poverty. Hence our appeal: like the collection agencies, bring the government under the law collection costs. Finally, Mr President. There is a great deal of commitment from the Chamber and the government to work on this. That's good, but that also raises expectations. Promise makes you guilty to say so. I'm counting on your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. As the second speaker on the side of the Chamber, I give the floor to Mr Slootweg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are several sides to debt. When one speaks of debt in English, one speaks of debt, but that is a very different kind of debt than when one is Guilty. There is no such distinction in Dutch. Would this affect thinking about people with payment problems? Is there a part of the problem there? Whoever's guilty has to pay? Your own fault, big bump? How would a conversation go when it comes to people with a payment problem? Whoever has a problem needs help, right? It would be a misconception to see all the people in debt as victims. There is also a downside to the story that my group wants to name. Making debts and not being able to pay them off affects ordinary creditors, often small self-employed people who get into trouble again. Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is the Manifest Debt Free! The initiators are surprised that there is so little to do around the issue of debt, as if it were just part of society. Especially for young people, debt-taking can turn the future perspective gray. That is why my group welcomes the ambitious paragraph on debt issues in the government agreement. When we look at the five requests of the initiators of the manifesto, we can only see that they are served at their beckons. Let me take the second request as an example. The initiators call for malpractice in debt collection agencies to be addressed. I quote the coalition agreement: 'If too often a collection agency goes wrong, it is fined and it loses registration'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u5	Mr. Slootweg, you have an interruption from Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u6	When I think of being served at your beck and call, I think: thank you, we take over this manifesto and we add a few things. But the cabinet says that it opts for a different effect. On a very important recommendation, the fight against market forces when it comes to debt, the cabinet is right to say: no, that is not what we are talking about. So where does Mr Slootweg base on the fact that the proposers are fully served?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u7	If I had had the time, I could also have indicated that it is perhaps at one point, and that is indeed the market. But in the coalition agreement we can also read the following: 'There will be a collection register in which collection agencies will be included'. So it may not be the reversal of market forces, but I certainly think that the coalition agreement calls for more regulation. This regulation could perhaps have the same or a better effect than the reversal of market forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u8	Then I note that Mr Slootweg and I simply have a different definition of'serving their beckons'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u9	Of course it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u10	You also have an interruption by Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u11	Mr Slootweg of the CDA referred to the coalition agreement. Indeed, it says that collection agencies can be fined if they go wrong too often. Shouldn't it be the case that if they just slip up once, they get a fine for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u12	This has yet to be worked out, so let's wait and see what the cabinet comes up with. Too often, once. I always think that the same applies to people who are in debt, and I think that you should have a second chance. That may also apply to a collection agency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u13	It does, of course, listen closely, when we talk about "too often." We don't tell people who run a red light that they get a fine if they run a red light too often. We can pull that across the board. I think it would be wise for us to clarify that. We've agreed a law with each other. When you make a mistake, you'll be fined for it. Yes or no. It is precisely with this problem, in which distressing situations can arise for individual families, that I think it is logical that the CDA should be a precursor to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u14	I share that, but I think we really need to wait and see what the cabinet comes up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u15	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u16	For example, I would also be able to underpin the requests to stop fines on poverty, to ensure greater coherence and to give people a perspective of a debt-free existence with passages from the coalition agreement. This cabinet also provides additional resources for dealing with debt and wants to reduce excesses in lending. The coalition agreement takes note of the pamphlet of the NVVK and Divosa of 2016 and the reports of the SER and the Ombudsman. Mr. Chairman. My group actually sees this manifesto as an incentive to this cabinet's intentions. That is why we are taking the opportunity to put a few questions to the cabinet. Can the cabinet indicate the time-limit for discussing the approach set out in the coalition agreement in the Chamber? And what measures does the cabinet intend to take to reduce the role of the government as a creditor? Yesterday, the Minister for Medical Care, Bruins, sent an interesting letter about the transfer of the health care allowance to the health insurance provider. How is this initiative weighted and could such a concept possibly also provide relief for the rent allowance? Mr President, I shall conclude. I would once again like to thank the initiators of this manifesto for raising the issue of debt to an actual social issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u17	Thank you. You have one more interruption from Mr Van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u18	We received the petition on Tuesday. Your colleague René Peters was there. He was right to say that we should not even approach this politically, because we all agree that we need to get to work on this. However, it has just been emphasized that the cabinet seems to want to take a different path than the authors of the manifesto. So I'd like to hear where you stand, for example on the next point. Isn't it strange that the government as a creditor can impose much higher fines than the collection agencies? They can impose a maximum of 15% fine, so the government can increase to 300% in the event of a traffic penalty. It's ticking. Do you agree with me that we should make that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u19	I do not know exactly, because it is now about percentages and equalization. But I, too, read that the government agreement does make much more of a commitment to the government as a creditor. I am also actually pleased with your approach, in which you say: let's not make this too political and let's try to solve this. I think there is a very ambitious paragraph in this coalition agreement. I also indicated that the government should be restricted as a creditor. After all, the government is often the biggest problem for people. In my view, this is actually expressed in passages in the coalition agreement. So I'm just gonna wait and see what the cabinet comes up with on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u20	But we are having the debate today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u21	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u22	The people in the ministries are now in the process of making the broad debt approach. So we have a good chance of giving these people and the rulers something today. Now is your position: we'll wait and see? Or do you say: no, I am taking this moment to send a message to the cabinet, namely that it has gotten a little out of hand with the debt industry? Do you agree with me and should we not limit ourselves to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u23	I think I can say "yes" to that last one; yes, it has gotten out of hand. But how are we going to do this after all? I really want to give the Cabinet room for that. And I think that the coalition agreement gives enough contours, so that I can be somewhat reassured that this is going to happen, especially in the case of the government as a creditor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u24	I would like to continue with what is actually the debt industry as a market. We also know the CDA as a socially-moved party and in the coalition agreement there is also something good about this. Interest rates shouldn't be sky high.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u25	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u26	But I'm curious to see how you look at the marketability of debt. How do you feel about private organizations making profits by trading in debt, making profits on people in debt? How does the CDA feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u27	You're gonna make a profit for a sec. It is also always a bit of a question of what is ultimately the result. Of course, someone may also say so to speak: I have an open debt of, for example, €1,000. Someone can say: I don't think I can ever get that money back, so I'm selling it for $500. We'll see about that in other positions. Someone else says: well, I think I'll be able to make a position in that so that it's actually better for those who have the debts. So the question is what is the point of profit-making sec in. It can sometimes also be a solution to bring down huge debts. So I want to look at that and that's why I'm a little less afraid of what the market can do, especially when I see how the government sometimes acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u28	We agree on the latter. That is not going well and the batter-free foot has not been respected for years. That is a big problem, also finds a broad majority in the Chamber. Actually, I don't agree with the first one. If you see how they work in practice, it is still as much profit as possible, charge maximum collection costs, as many stories as possible, intimidating work. Shouldn't we just get rid of that, I'd like to ask the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u29	If you're talking about these intimidating practices, I think we can easily find each other. But I also think that it is best to make agreements with sectors on how to shape it in a humane way. The Labour Party and the CDA may be thinking a little differently about what is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u30	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg, for your contribution. Then we go to the third speaker on the side of the Chamber, and that is Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u31	Mr. Chairman. We often disagree in this Chamber. And that's part of it. A good debate is important and everyone is here from their own convictions. But sometimes we also agree with each other. In my view, this is the case today in the recognition that it has indeed gotten way out of hand when it comes to debt. Something really needs to be done about the large number of people who have problematic debts. This urgency is widely shared, both by the various political groups and by the cabinet, as witnessed in the coalition agreement. Also from the field comes a clear signal in the form of the Manifest Debt Free!. The initiators make five concrete recommendations to national politics. I am also pleased that almost all the groups felt addressed here and that is why they received the manifesto and the petition last Tuesday. I hope that this is the start of a long-term commitment from the whole Chamber to this issue. I therefore look forward to the round table we are going to have on 12 February. I think it is very important to discuss this extensively with those involved, and I also very much hope that the Minister and the Secretary of State will be listening in the background. But I found the response of the Minister and the Secretary of State to the manifesto somewhat disappointing. The Minister and the Secretary of State have already announced that they will pursue a comprehensive debt approach. I would say that with this manifesto in hand you can say: thank you, you have already saved me a lot of work. The objectives of the manifesto are supported by a huge number of organisations from the field, but the cabinet nevertheless opts for a different approach. Does the Minister and the Secretary of State not agree with me that these practical experiences are so valuable? And are they prepared to take these experiences into account in any case in the broad debt approach that we expect to see soon? For example, the issue of market forces in bailiffs has been criticised for years, by researchers, by the National Ombudsman and also by the sector itself. A bailiff is no longer a neutral official, but an entrepreneur who has to rake as much money as possible over people's backs, with the result that families sometimes get ten different bailiffs at the door. Can the Minister explain what the advantage of this is for these families? Does this make it easier for people to get out of debt? In the response to the manifesto, the Minister and the State Secretary indicate that the rethinking of market forces is in principle not on the agenda. Can they indicate what this means? When will it be on the agenda? And why isn't it even on the agenda? What blessings has the market actually brought in the collection industry? I don't see them. Another point from the manifesto is working towards a debt-free existence. That's quite a challenge right now. As the writers of the manifesto indicate, you must walk untrained a bureaucratic triathlon. It's either a friendly or a legal process. The picture is now that the friendly path is actually too weak towards creditors and that the Wsnp has very strict admission criteria. Does the Secretary of State recognize this image and is she willing to look at it as well? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u32	Thank you, Mrs Voortman. I shall then give the floor as the fourth speaker on the side of the Chamber to Mrs Van Brenk of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS has great appreciation for the initiators of the Manifest Debt Free!. We ask for a reply from the Secretary of State: why is it not taking over all these recommendations? We have also had a recent debate on poverty. We, as 50PLUS, then, and we are doing it again, indicated that we should stop. Now stop the debt doubler! The government is the biggest causer. The Central Justice Collection Agency is known for this. It was just said, 300%. The doubler will be deployed. Municipal credit agencies which charge up to 14% interest to the poorest. It's very bizarre. Poverty as a earning model. Collection practices that are often downright dubious. I do not understand why the Secretary of State does not agree with the proposal to prohibit the resale of debts. I'd like a good explanation on that. Managing and its prices. It's unprecedented when you see what the costs are. Monthly costs do not lie and the starting costs are more than €600. Force creditors to cooperate in debt restructuring. Can the Secretary of State also comment on this? Perhaps the Minister could also indicate: can we reverse it? Now it is the case that if one creditor does not cooperate, the journey stops for months and the creditor has a major problem. He'll have to go to the judge. Can't we just turn that around? The manifesto is asking for that. Can we indicate where the problems are now in order to do so? Mr. Chairman. People who are worried about debt must be taken care of. We also made a plea to the Secretary of State for this last time. Now try to make sure that there is one permanent contact person in the municipalities who gives these people a care, because that helps to get out of trouble. For it is indeed an unprecedented bureaucracy, which someone in debt runs into. We have seen the examples of what someone needs to fill out forms and what they need to bring, otherwise their case will not even be dealt with. Again the request: provide one permanent contact person, who solves all the problems at the back, so that people in debt are not pushed into misery anymore. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. As a fifth speaker from the Chamber, I give the floor to Mr Raemakers of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u35	Thank you, Mr President. 29.696. So many signatures the Manifest got debt-free!. They counted it very precisely. 1,384,689. So many families have to deal with problematic or risky debts. About then, because we can't count it exactly, but there are about 1.4 million. People don't see through the trees the mountain bills, letters of formal notice and claims anymore. These debts create tension and stress, but they also put people in trouble when paying for groceries, gas, water, light and membership of the sports club for the children. We have to do something about this. Stricter rules are needed to better protect vulnerable people. There are good plans for this in the coalition agreement. D66 now wants quick action from the Secretary of State. One of the plans is the collection register. Only the good collection agencies are included in this register. This is a positive development. When does the Secretary of State expect this register to be up and running? How strict is the assessment for a collection agency and who does it? Mr. Chairman. Of course, we already have the Wet collection costs from 2012. At that time, a maximum percentage of collection costs was introduced. Since then, there has also been a mandatory fourteen-day letter. Why have these measures not proved sufficiently effective? One possible answer is that the government is the biggest cash collector. Public authorities do not have a maximum rate of collection. All kinds of public bodies................................................................................................................................................................................. The previous cabinet has therefore taken steps towards the elaboration of a single national debt collection vision. When is the new Secretary of State coming up with an update on this government debt collection vision? Does this mean working towards one portal and one window for all government debt, or does the Secretary of State have any other creative ideas?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u36	Mr Raemakers was also at the presentation of the petition on Tuesday. He was very happy about it, too, I think. If it isn't, I'd love to hear it. Then the question is: does D66 support that manifesto fully or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u37	Yes, we think the manifesto is very good and we also think there are very good things in it. We have signed the government agreement. D66 is very pleased that a lot of good measures in the manifesto are also included in the coalition agreement. The coalition agreement is not one-on-one the same as the manifesto, but I really think there are 80% of the same things in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u38	We're gonna see, we're gonna see. It has been said for a while: in response to my parliamentary questions, the government says 'we are choosing a different path'. So there the differences seem to be a little bigger. But, to be specific, you quite rightly mentioned that point of those percentages. The government can greatly increase debt compared to normal debt collection agencies. Do you agree that we need to align that with the debt collection agencies, so not more than 15%?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u39	I do not know whether we should put the state's position on this issue exactly in the same way as the private sector. I think that is quite a fundamental discussion. Anyway, we're open to the thought. What is much more important to me is that, as I have explained, all these different public bodies, CJIB, Tax Administration, CAK.................................................................................................................................................... That would be the first priority for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u40	So that's the fourth from the manifesto. Well, at least that's one of them. That's 20%. I think you don't always have to say that you take over everything that comes from society, but if you think differently about certain points, you have to be open about it. Can D66 indicate which points of the manifesto should not be introduced as far as it is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u41	That's a pretty negative question. I have the five recommendations of the manifesto here. 1. Stop finesting poverty. Well, that sounds like a very good one. 2. Stop the malpractice at the collection agencies. I think that's very good. We have incorporated many things into the coalition agreement. 4. Get cohesion and give the government one face. That's what I asked. I think that's very good. 5. Offer more people a perspective on a guilt-free existence. I think that's very good, too. You're guessing, I'll come to 3: "Rethink market forces for bailiffs." Look, of course the government isn't the party that always does everything right, so whether you should step away from the market? I think we can have that discussion, but on point 3, I have the most doubts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u42	I am glad that Mr Raemakers is telling us this honestly, but I am still looking forward to his support. Why does he think that market forces when it comes to bailiffs would be so good? What blessings has this market effect brought to this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u43	If we have a discussion about whether to opt for market forces or for the government, we have to note that both the government and the market always fail on points. You can have a fundamental discussion about this, but it is much more important that bailiffs, like debt collection agencies, comply with the law, comply with the deadlines, do everything neatly and do not resort to crooked practices. Whether you put that in the hands of the government or in the hands of the market, that seems much more important to me. The Minister and the Secretary of State have a duty to be much stricter on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u44	Exactly in point 3, I think the stinger is, because it also indicates that ten bailiffs are hunting the same tens. Whether it's about market forces or government action, is D66 at least willing to come up with something to prevent all these bailiffs from pouring themselves like hyenas on people who are in debt?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u45	Oh, yeah. We have also included something about this in the coalition agreement. Creditors should first examine the possibilities of payment arrangements before a case is brought to justice. Those hyenas, as Mr Kuzu calls them, we want to combat. We're also gonna do an experiment with a debt judge. So I fully agree with the group of DENK that we really need to try to do something about this. I think the cabinet's gonna try that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u46	Those friendly routes are not required by law. That's why they're called "lovely." The point is that you do not want many creditors to be allowed to deposit on someone with debts, on a debtor. So you could think of a legal system that will ensure that people who are in debt are protected from all those people who are pouring on them instead of those friendly routes, which we can already know in advance that they are not going to work. Does Mr Raemakers agree with me, is my question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u47	Look, that's a question. Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u48	I really agree with the general point of departure: we must indeed move towards greater cooperation and we must also prevent all kinds of different parties from focusing on one debtor, because that is, of course, very intimidating for that debtor, and that can also have many personal consequences. So I really agree with that, but when it comes to the question of how we can achieve more cooperation, I think we should wait and see what the cabinet's proposals are, because that is another very complicated process. But I'd be happy to think along in this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u49	Mr. Raemakers, continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u50	Finally, I would like to draw attention to young people and debt. There is a specific problem when young people who study come into contact with debt. If you get study funding, for example an additional scholarship, you can't get into the Debt Reduction Act for natural persons (Wsnp). In a 2016 letter of inquiry, the Secretary of State has already indicated that DUO can be a coulant and in some cases a collection break, so that those people can still study. But students sometimes also have to deal with other creditors such as the Tax Administration. In 2016, the State Secretary expressed the hope that the example of DUO's collection break was followed by other public bodies. Finally, I would like to ask what the Secretary of State can say about the 2016 letter in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u51	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. Then I would like to invite the next speaker from the Chamber. That is Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is no wonder that this theme gets so much attention, that so many people watched the documentary Guilty, that that documentary has unlocked a lot and that such a manifesto gets so much support. One in ten households................................................................................................................................................................ One in nine children grows up in a family where debts are always above the market and where money has to be used. That is serious, because it inhibits development. Kids can tell that. They perform worse in school and get a worse education. That's really bad. That's something that needs to be dealt with. Fortunately, the cabinet also announces a number of measures. That has the support of the PvdA Group. In this short debate I would like to draw attention to three things. First of all, what does the government itself do to prevent people from falling into debt? The Scientific Council for Government Policy has produced a report and has mapped out how many schemes different families would need if they had little money. That was 18 forms. You must have almost been promoted to claim what you are entitled to, at the municipality, at the pool, at the school. What is the Cabinet going to do to make that much more accessible and easier and to give people what they are entitled to? We can say that we meet people who are poor, but if they don't find it, it won't come. We know this is true. Tax is called "silvering problems" and "non-use" in municipalities. We all have official terms for it. We can say that we are helping the poorest people, but it is not reaching them. What does the government do about it? The second point has already been raised in detail. What's the government gonna do if it goes wrong for a second if someone makes a mistake? Do we have faith in people or do we see everyone as a con artist? Do we approach everyone with distrust? Do we give fines? Do we not even respect the batter-free foot that we impose on the private sector, because it is too complicated for us as a government? It can't be. Everyone thinks so, too. When is that gonna be settled? People don't even have income to buy clothes, food and everything. It's still not settled. The third point is market forces. Is the market gonna solve this? I just asked a question about this to the CDA or should the government do it? Fortunately, in the coalition agreement, it says that interest rates on usury are being put to an end. I'll ask the government what percentage it thinks of. It's 14% now. Is it under 10%, which the PvdA would like to propose? Where's it going? I'd like to know, because the interest rate is close to 0%, so that's possible. The second is the resale of debts and making a profit on them. Huge collection costs are being charged. They are all legally limited, but if you add them together, it leads to huge bills, which are sometimes 100%, 200% of the actual account. That has to end. The PvdA wants to get rid of that. Is that what the government wants? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u53	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr De Lange of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u54	Mr. Chairman. Giving people perspective to pay their own bills makes them really debt-free. In the manifesto we are discussing today, giving people perspective is rightly central. It is good that a broad group of society has emerged who have sought solutions with each other. Guilty has allowed us to see what debts do in the lives of people in the Vogelbuurt. Debt issues are commonplace in many places and can match everyone: from young to old, without work or working for a boss, or as their own boss. Accessible, low-threshold debt relief is therefore of great importance. Can the Secretary of State indicate how she talks with the municipalities to reduce the local thresholds towards debt relief? For example, what does she think of the Ombudsman's findings of the Ombudsman's inquiry that in some municipalitieszzp's and people who are in separation are not helped? The VVD believes that good cooperation between interested parties is crucial. Debts often don't come alone, but go hand in hand with other problems. By working smartly together, stability returns and with that it can be given that perspective again to solve other problems as well. Obstacles to good cooperation in debt relief should therefore be removed. How does the Secretary of State intend to address these obstacles? Can it also address the role of the government itself as a collecting party? When you're in debt, you don't buy anything to be put in the corner of pathetic. It's about how you're helped to be self-reliant again. The government agreement contains an ambitious paragraph on debt reduction and poverty reduction. These proposals should be developed in the already announced broad debt approach, this spring. This also addresses issues identified in the manifesto. Mr. Chairman. "Decree-free" sounds good, but in the end someone has to pay the bill. In dealing with debts, therefore, a balance will always have to be struck between the interests of the creditor and the debtor. Recently I spent a day on the road with a bailiff in Amsterdam-West. There I saw with my own eyes how important it is to communicate properly. Clear drawings with a call to call, contact, often say so much more than a legally correct letter. These are good examples. The manifesto rightly also pays attention to crooked collection agencies; so the bad examples. In doing so, it must be absolutely clear that you have to deal with it. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what steps are being taken to speed up the introduction of the collection register. Colleagues have already asked for this. What's that gonna look like? Who's gonna set that up and when's the registry gonna be ready? Finally. We all agree that nobody wants to be in debt. The aim must therefore be to support people in financial self-reliance, while creditors can also get their money. That's what both parties are really helped with, and then you literally make them guilt-free.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u55	Thank you. Mr. De Lange, you have another interruption from Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u56	I would also have liked to ask a question to the Christian Union, but there is no such question, unfortunately. I just saw a tweet by NPO Politics that the debate with Minister Carola Schouten on debt is about to begin, and that mistake is quite understandable, because its role is great. Anyway, I'll end up with the VVD, not bad either. What does Mr De Lange think of the manifesto? You were there on Tuesday, too, so I assume you were excited. What did you think of their justified point: if you want to make a payoff, is it a pity if one creditor can break such an agreement or, as it were, veto it? Do you agree that we should look at a smarter regulation, for example, which makes it binding when two thirds of those concerned say that they want to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u57	I agree with the idea of looking at how to organize things smarter. My plea is that we need to go over there and sit far more in front. That means: look at the front of the table to see how you can manage payment arrangements. That is why communication is an important issue. How do you get in touch with someone to see what the possibilities are? I believe that it is now particularly focused on the back, where we are in this situation after a number of contact moments or reminders. I think it goes a long way if we say that two thirds of creditors do, because there may also be a creditor who has very good reasons, for example that he wants to have his accounts paid by the end of the month. You're gonna have to find a good balance in that. I think that we should emphasise in particular: how are you going to organise much more that we will quickly get the problems in front of us and get a payment settlement so that you pay the bill and the person who sent the bill gets his money too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u58	Totally. Prevention is better than cure. Please, let's do everything we can to prevent people from getting in debt. If that is your plea, I fully support it. However, we also know that more than a million families have problematic debts and we now have to deal with them. I hope to hear how the VVD is going to help those people. You mention a number of things. I found this plea, the example I mentioned, rather sympathetic. I thought it wouldn't cost a lot of money. So I think it is something that your party might be sympathetic to. If one party stops the case, for example, that's one of those incassocowboy things, then nothing happens at all. Then a person like that is left behind with debts, and then nothing happens. How are we going to help such a person? Don't you think this is an inspiring arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u59	You are only assuming the situation in which that last creditor might have a reprehensible motive to try and stop this. I always like to look at a problem with the consideration that there might also be a justified motive why that person says 'I choose to get my money eventually'. Of course, you need to organize and see how you could do this smarter. Hence my emphasis: sit a lot more on that front.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u60	Thank you. Mrs. Voortman, you also have an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u61	Such a creditor could, of course, go to court. I heard Mr De Lange say that the account has to be paid in the end; if there is a debt, the account has to be paid. Of course, that sounds very logical, but we also know the examples where relatively small amounts are blown up in a very short time. I wonder what Mr De Lange means by 'the account' in such situations. Is he talking about the original amount, or is he talking about the huge increases?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u62	If you get in touch at the front much faster and can move towards payment arrangements, then you can also prevent those accounts from going up. Because the situation you are describing is, of course, a situation in which there have already been a number of contact moments and the counter has thus started to run. In retrospect, of course, it is a great shame that that has happened. Hence the argument: go see how you can sit a lot more on that front. Giving people perspective because there are solutions: well, I've seen great examples of that. These are examples of innovative bailiffs working on this. So that's very nice. It's also nice that we can make choices between bailiffs who might do it in an old-fashioned way and people who do it in a modern way. I would particularly like to give those good bailiffs the opportunity to set an example, for example, of that sort of thing, communication. I have seen examples of this myself and I get excited about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u63	I am talking about the bad examples, the bailiffs who ask for much higher interest rates than the interest rates they can ask for, the bailiffs who abuse the fact that people don't always know what it's like. In this way, they are asking for much more than what the debt actually is. That kind of practice would have to be dealt with very hard, wouldn't it? Mr De Lange is now focusing on the good examples, but I would like to urge him to tackle these bad examples as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u64	Then you will be served with the proposal for the collection register, one of the proposals of the cabinet. Sure, we gotta get the bad guys out. Let us be absolutely clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u65	Thank you, Mr. De Lange. I shall then be the next speaker from the Chamber to give the floor to Mr Kuzu of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Debts are indeed a very big problem in the Netherlands. We are talking about 1 million people who have problematic debts. The Prophets of the Manifest Guilt-Free! describe it itself quite strikingly: debts lead to greater debts, poverty, relationships that run up the cliffs, to illness, to child poverty, to irrecoverable claims and write-offs to creditors and the Tax Administration. In short, debt leads to social costs for all of us and causes distressing situations for people. And as if that's not enough, there's been an entire debt industry that's making a lot of money over the backs of people who are having a hard time. Mr. Chairman. The government itself is the main cause of the debt problem, for example by paying out bonuses that have to be repaid a few years later or by the Tax Administration recovering money in an aggressive way and with a priority position of people. In fact, a debate with three minutes' speaking time is too short to discuss this issue properly. Actually, we should take a lot of time for this, because debts are often a trap. Once you're in, you don't get out easy. So, apart from the poverty trap, there's a debt trap. The repayment of debts sometimes happens with new loans over and over again. Others simply do not open their posts anymore and hope that the debts will go away on their own. In reality, it's only getting worse. Mr. Chairman. I'll just go to the numbers. Is it true that in 2016 3 million cases ended up with the bailiff? Isn't it true that a million payouts have been made? Is it true that 28,000 water or electricity has been cut off? According to the Secretary of State, can we talk about a debt problem in the Netherlands? And if so, how are we going to fight this plague? In fact, we should be able to squeeze our hands that a number of people have risen up who have put it very succinctly in a manifesto. We at DENK endorse all five points in the manifesto. Will the Secretary of State implement those five proposals? If so, how? If not, why not? Mr. Chairman. In the coalition agreement, I read that the cabinet wants to consult with the municipality on shorter waiting times for debt relief and that there should be a collection register. I would like to ask the government how far it has progressed. Speaking of debt relief, the municipal debt relief law provides for a period of six weeks for the first conversation with the municipality, but no clear deadline is set for the follow-up and actual aid. And that is what it is all about in the end: there must be a legal deadline for actual aid. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Is she prepared to revise the law for this purpose? For the years 2018-2020, a total of €80 million is earmarked to combat debt and poverty in families with children. I'd like to hear what the Secretary of State's plans are with that. Mr President, my final point. Legislation was introduced in 2004 to limit the closure of gas and electricity in winter as much as possible. In the meantime we live in 2018 and we can also count the internet, a Wi-Fi connection, among the primary necessities, because without Wi-Fi you can't get anywhere nowadays. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make the same kind of scheme for Wi-Fi as for electricity and gas? We should also extend this scheme to include drinking water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u67	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I shall then give the floor to the last speaker from the Chamber. That's Mr. De Jong from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u68	Mr President, thank you very much. In recent years, many Dutch people have been given a lot of money. Many of them still have difficulty keeping their heads above water. These people therefore do not understand the jubilee that often sounds in politics in The Hague when it comes to our supposedly improved economic situation. After all, Dutch people don't notice anything about it in their wallet. Last week figures from the CBS showed that in 2016 as many as 224.000 households had long-term low incomes; that is 15,000 households more than in 2015. Thank you, Rutte II. This has all kinds of negative consequences, because according to the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau... I cannot repeat it often enough... one in three households does not have enough money to fix the washing machine, replace worn furniture or escape the stress of their financial situation by going on holiday for a week. The Nibud calculated in 2016 that almost a quarter of Dutch people have structural difficulties to make ends meet. All these different figures indicate that many Dutch families lead a fragile existence. That is cause for serious concern. In many cases, this fragile existence also ultimately results in major financial problems and debts, debts where people often no longer come out. According to the research firm Panteia, 1.4 million households in the Netherlands are facing high-risk debts. That's 20% of households, one in five households. According to Stichting BKR, almost a fifth of the Dutch people are late payments. Those are shocking numbers. After years of misery caused by Rutte II, Rutte III now claims to have an eye for people in poverty and people dealing with problematic debt. In the meantime, however, the cabinet increases VAT, making daily messages more expensive, not to mention the higher energy note. So instead of air, as a thank you for years of misery caused by Rutte II, our people will only get more misery fired in the coming years. It is up to this cabinet to answer the question of how to prevent people who have fallen into trouble without their fault from getting into trouble, for example, through the accumulation of debts. For the sake of time therefore two questions. What is this cabinet going to do to deal with crooked bailiffs and debt collection agencies? And how is it going to ensure that governments and public administrations work together more closely to prevent debt accumulation when recovering outstanding debts from citizens? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u69	Thank you very much, Mr De Jong. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. The rulers have asked me to suspend for 15 minutes. I'm suspending until 9:05.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u70	The next item is the 30-member debate on a debt industry and the manifest debt-free. The directors have indicated that the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment will speak first, and then the Minister for Legal Protection. I am happy to give the Secretary of State the floor first for the first-term answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin, let me just outline the structure of the debate. Indeed, I am allowed to act as a coordinating director. There are a lot of issues that have to do with debt. I will take care of some of them tonight and some of them will be dealt with by the Minister. I would like to start with a general response later and also to address the broad approach to debt and the manifesto. I would also like to mention matters relating to the national collection system, in which it is indeed a question of broad cooperation between public authorities and, among other things, the free-of-charge basis. It's a broad subject. I coordinate the vision on that point, but the CJIB plays a prominent role in the operational process. That is why the Minister will give the answers in this area. Then I would like to raise a number of issues concerning debt relief. Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by saying that I am particularly pleased as a coordinating govern ment, even though it is a very difficult subject, namely that there is a great deal of attention to debt issues. That's what it takes. Last Tuesday the initiators of the Manifest debt-free! offered me a petition. Those are very involved people, even when you look at the timing. They are now in the public gallery. Glad you could make it! I have great admiration for the energy they have put into it. She and the many signatories, like me and the cabinet, are concerned about debt issues and are looking for solutions. I appreciate these initiatives. I also understand all the attention, because we are talking about a problem that causes a lot of human suffering. It is therefore important that the subject is and remains high on the agenda. The cabinet wants to reduce the number of people with problematic debt and also help people with debt more effectively. Those who no longer see the possibility of resolving their problematic debts must also be helped. This is based on the principle that people have to meet their financial obligations. But if that is not possible, debt must be stabilised with help. In any case, debt must be prevented from getting worse. A debt-free future for everyone is a good goal, but it is primarily a question of making debt manageable. Sometimes it requires forgiveness or partial remission, but that is an extreme means. The government agreement contains a package of measures to address debt. It is also true that reference is made to "additional money' for the prevention of debt and the fight against poverty, particularly among children. Together with my colleagues, including Minister Dekker, but also with municipalities and the VNG, the great executives and other parties from the field, I will join forces in a broad debt approach. At the moment we are busy working on this. In the spring of 2018, I will send you an approach tailored to all parties. I have heard many comments and many questions. I can taste the impatience that I feel myself. Unfortunately, I will not be able to answer all the questions tonight, because there is so much complexity and there is so many parties to work with. But I refer to the words of Mr Jasper van Dijk. I would also very much like to see tonight's input as things that will be given in order to be able to assess later on when it is being worked out. That was my general introduction, Mr President. I would like to go through some of the issues referred to in the broad debt approach. I have indeed indicated that a broad approach to debt will be sent to the Chamber in the spring. In this letter I will also provide insight into when the results of the various measures in the coalition agreement can be expected. Because there are different measures with different timelines, also because different actors are working on them. Some measures require legislation and others do not, but I can tell you that several departments are already preparing measures. From the CDA, we were asked if we would like to get started with all or almost all of the recommendations in the reports. This has also been indicated by several groups. I stand for a broad debt approach to reduce the number of people with problematic debt. But also because there are so many parties involved, we need to implement a wide range of measures. I appreciate initiatives like the Manifest Debt Free! And I agree with the importance of reducing the number of people with problematic debts. As the Minister for Legal Protection and I mentioned earlier in the answers to Parliamentary questions on the manifesto, sometimes the cabinet also opts for a different approach to the solutions outlined by the manifesto. We will also show in the final approach which initiatives we adopt and which we do not and why we accept them or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u72	Mr Van Dijk has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u73	It might be good to get a picture of what the government is going to do. You appreciate the initiators, and that's nice. You even received them. I appreciate you doing that. It's just good business. But the Secretary of State has just said that we sometimes opt for a different effect. You just said'sometimes', but in reply to my parliamentary questions you said: we choose a different effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u74	By "you," you mean the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u75	Exactly. What is it? How do you see this manifesto in general? Do you see this as a manifesto that you say we're going to do this; do I embrace the direction directly? Or are you saying, no, we're really gonna do it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u76	I have indicated that I would like to emphasise once again that I appreciate it and that it is important for me to be able to redeem as many of the measures that people agree on together as possible. When I put the manifesto next to the coalition agreement, I see that on many fronts I leave the word'sometimes' a bit more positive, but not on all fronts. You have also exchanged this with fellow chamber members in various debates. We are going to work on the broad vision of the cabinet. That is what I said at the start of the debate. In the end, we will also put in place the measures we are going to take as a cabinet. I think it is important, especially at this stage, not only to see whether we can take literally what parties come up with, but also to see what they mean by certain measures and to see whether, if we in the cabinet can not take over certain matters, we can account for the questions or initiatives that lie behind them and whether we can perhaps do something about them in a different way. I understand and agree with the concerns expressed in the manifesto, but in particular measure 3 "rethink market forces for bailiffs," which the Minister will address in his term, concerns a subject which the cabinet currently feels differently from the initiators of the manifesto. This is without prejudice to the fact that, to a large extent, we can meet each other on almost all other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u77	Then may I draw a positive conclusion? That is to say that the Secretary of State says: we are working on the broad approach to debt, but take this manifesto to a large extent very seriously. Actually, you're very much in agreement. You are also willing to take the input that the Chamber now gives. It would be a bit of a damper if you said, "Listen, I'm working on the debt approach, just wait and see." Then there is little point in this debate. I imagine there will be further motions in a moment. Is the Secretary of State indeed prepared to involve the input seriously today in its approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u78	That is perhaps the easiest commitment I can make, because I always take input seriously. But before that becomes a death doer, I really want to underline that it is a subject that the initiators of the manifesto have put their shoulders under, which I very much appreciate. If I can't meet everything, I'd still like to try to respond to the underlying concern. When it comes to the discussion with the Chamber, of course, we have already had a lot of exchanges in the budgetary procedure. At that time I also indicated that I would like it to be faster, but that it will be spring. I therefore consider this debate to be an opportunity for us to once again express our ambition. I'd like to pick it up with vervain, too. As much as I'd like to, I can't do it until spring. But I will listen very carefully to what the Chamber indicates and will take as much of it as possible to the mind or letter in the elaboration of the broad vision. I come to the issue of debt relief, an issue on the table. A number of Members of Parliament have asked questions about this, which I would like to stop by. Mr Jasper van Dijk refers to the debate that we also had in the budget, namely on the debt relief line 115 debt, with which the parties actually started to work themselves. He asks if I am willing to actively support the initiative. At an earlier stage, discussions were held with the UNG in accordance with the motion adopted, but no action was taken. It is a subject of which I would say: let us, in particular, grab the underlying idea. Then it's also about access. That's a subject that's definitely going to come back. Then there was a question from both Mr Van Dijk and the VVD about not excluding groups, such as entrepreneurs and young people, on the basis of the Ombudsman's report. At the request of the Court, I have already sent a letter responding to the Ombudsman's report. In this I have indicated that accessible and accessible debt relief is extremely important. I would like to stress this once again. This report contains a mirror for municipalities and shows where they can do better. This signal also provides important input for the national multi-annual programme Shoulders underneath, to which reference has also been made, from Divosa, VNG, NVVK, Social Work Netherlands and the National Clients Council, to which SZW contributed. I call on municipalities to take into account the results of the Ombudsman's inquiry. That is a call that the UNG has also made to its members. I think this is entirely justified. Then there is a question from Mrs Van Brenn whether I am prepared to force creditors to cooperate in debt arrangements, where there are difficulties in doing so. This was also referred to by Mr Jasper Van Dijk. In reply, I too would like to say that I see ways of making debt relief easier and helping people faster. Within the friendly debt regime, it is already possible to force creditors to cooperate by means of a coercive agreement, i.e. through the courts. Without the intervention of the court, the obligation on a creditor to settle part of his claim goes too far, because then we will damage the protection of property rights. There is also a legal regime in the form of the Debt Remodelling Act for natural persons (Wsnp). This has been referred to by the D66 Group in relation to another issue which provides for an obligation to cooperate for creditors. That is the area of my colleague, the Minister for Legal Protection. An additional obligation to cooperate for creditors within the friendly municipal debt relief is therefore not obvious. However, I am committed to improving the implementation of the friendly path. For example, the NVVK works with SZW grant within the programme Shoulders underneath to digitize contact with creditors, something that is still going by post. Mr Kuzu asks if I am prepared to review the deadlines in the Municipal Debt Aid Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u79	On the previous point, there is an interruption by Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u80	I would like to have a word with the Secretary of State about the creditors. We see that people are getting in a lot of trouble because one creditor refuses and therefore drags trips for months, and that it is even necessary to force the creditor to cooperate. I understand the taking away of property rights, but I would also like to ask what this means for the protection of interests. Can we not say that this is such a serious problem that we really need to push through this? It has already been said: if two thirds of creditors cooperate and we may have one who is unwilling, what possibilities does the cabinet have to get a little further in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u81	I think that is at the heart of the discussion. Given the complexity of the field, it is also one of the reasons why I do not have the answer at the moment. That is why I have also said that we will have answers to these questions in the spring with this broad approach. However, there are several reasons why creditors do not want to cooperate. Think, for example, of small entrepreneurs who also have claims. We have many examples of this. By saying to such a person "your claim can't participate anymore," you would make sure that a company goes down. You don't want to take that for your hood either. There are therefore several reasons and possibilities. They are all being put together at the moment, and that is one of the reasons why we are not yet able to give an answer on this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u82	Do I understand now that the Secretary of State says: if I come up with this broad approach in the spring, will the Chamber receive an answer to this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u83	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u84	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u85	Mr President, I note that I have already answered a number of questions in the interruptions. I'm trying to keep it organized. In reply to Mr Kuzu's question, I was prepared to review the deadlines in the Municipal Debt Aid Act. Those deadlines shall be maximum time limits. It is important that municipalities offer debtors a perspective. It is difficult to shorten these deadlines, but it is up to the municipalities to apply real deadlines. This too is an issue that I will take into account in the elaboration of the broad debt approach. Mrs Van Brenk had asked if it is possible that people have one contact with the municipality that gives them a care. As I have just said, municipal debt relief is local policy. This also concerns the organisation of access. The imposition of a mandatory method does not fit in, but I am talking to the Association of Dutch Municipalities about an improved debt relief process. It is important that municipalities exchange best practices and learn from each other. I think this is a good example of that. Then I come to D66's question on the state of play concerning young people and debt. Commitments to the Chamber have been made in previous letters. The municipality is the first step in helping young people who are in debt. It is precisely in order to boost municipal debt services that the shoulders programme was launched with subsidies from the Ministry. I referred to that earlier. Although this is not a programme aimed specifically at young people, it is a programme which seeks to boost the quality of municipal debt relief and which also aims to ensure the transfer of locally acquired good practices. I also see many good examples of the approach for young people in debt, for example in Apeldoorn, Tilburg and Groningen. I like to mention churches with good examples. The aim of the programme is to encourage the national roll-out of these examples. If I do, I have answered the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u86	Thank you. However, this leads to a number of Members of Parliament standing up. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am glad that this last point is still on the mindset of the Secretary of State. However, it is not just a question of municipalities, but also of ministries. On page five of the 2016 letter there is something about the collection break that DUO can apply. DUO belongs to the Ministry of OCW. The then State Secretary writes: "maybe the measure moves other creditors to follow OCW's example." I am curious whether other ministries or public bodies have now begun to follow the example of DUO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u88	In order to be able to give a full answer, I would like to move this question to the second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u89	That's what we're gonna do. Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u90	I had asked a question about the gap between a friendly and a legal path. Is that a question for the Secretary of State or the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u91	At least you can contact me for that. As a coordinating director, I would like to be able either to give an answer or to give an answer myself or to indicate when I can give an answer. This is a subject that I would like to involve in the final elaboration. I can see there's a light in there. Here I come back to the approach in spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u92	I'm glad to hear that. I think that's one of the big pain points. I am pleased that the Secretary of State is addressing this issue in the context of the broad approach to debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u93	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u94	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her first-term contribution. I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u95	Mr. Chairman. We're talking today about the Manifest Debt Free!. I can fully endorse what my colleague has said in relation to the appreciation we wish to express. It is very good that a wide-ranging debate is being held on this issue by different bodies and by different people who are close to it. The issue of debt is a complex one. In the case of serious debts, two parties are always the victims. As an alderman of a big city, I know that there are people who have been in trouble, sitting in the hair with their hands and not seeing any light at the end of the tunnel. Today, the focus is very much on what we can do to give these people perspective again. With every debt, there's someone with an unpaid bill. As Minister of Justice, I must also be aware of this. In economic terms, in the way we deal with each other, it is still true that if you buy something, you have to pay for it in principle. If you can't afford it, don't buy it. Of course, when it comes to debt, we often think of the very large organizations such as the Empire, a large insurance company where there is health insurance and the energy company. But there are also a lot of small entrepreneurs who get into trouble themselves if a few bills are not paid. You can collect your accounts by collection and eventually execute your title by filing a attachment by a bailiff. That's an opportunity for people to finally get their rights. But, like I say, that shouldn't be at the expense of everything. That has to be done in a proper way. It is not for nothing that many texts and measures are devoted to this in the coalition agreement. We also recognise that we can do better and we must do better. Then let me begin by putting my hand into my own bosom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u96	Maybe we'll do an interruption first. Or does Mr De Jong think that perhaps the Minister is going to answer that question, hand in hand? Follow me, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u97	At least I want to zoom in on two things. The first is that the Empire, and certainly Justice, is itself the largest creditor. If we think other people should do this properly, we should also see how we can do it properly ourselves. The second thing I would like to dwell on is what we can do to prevent abuses in the market, for example malicious collection agencies that are aggressive against people who really cannot pay. People who might want to, but they can't. Let me start with the first. The government itself is a large creditor and within it justice is once again a large creditor. We have a legal task with regard to the collection of traffic fines and criminal sanctions. Fines are, of course, always the result of avoidable behavior. That's why it's important that they're paid. That is not only for financial reasons, but also to meet the sense of justice. In addition, it must always be done neatly. That means that we need to have an eye for people who want to pay, but can't. In the past it has been quite successful and it can be improved on parts, but I can also see that a number of steps have been taken in recent years. Let me give you an example. The CJIB, the big collection agency of the Justice Department, has made it possible to pay much more in time. If you can't do it in one go, you can do it in a longer time. This achieves the objective of paying fines and claims, but in a reasonable manner. More and more customisation is also offered. I'm impressed by the people who work at the CJIB. They'll see what they can do. They pick up the phone if necessary to see what they can do, what's going on and why things don't get paid. I think that fits in with a more modern government. It shouldn't be behind a big wall, but at some point it should be looking at what's at people's homes, what's going on and whether she can help. In addition, in recent years, the collection of government and other public authorities has been organised in a different way and increasingly brought together. That started with the Rijksincasso vision that my colleague was just talking about. This means that from now on one debtor's claims will also be brought together with one government bailiff. We are now taking steps in this direction. The tender has now been completed and the first contracts were signed in October 2017. This means that RVO is now connected and DUO is connected as of 1 December 2017. The CAK will connect as of 1 February 2018 and the UWV as of 2019. If you then have to deal with the government as a creditor, then there will soon be I know that this is still work in progress, one bailiff you will be dealing with. That also helps, because if that bailiff sees that there are problems, that can be taken into account. So we are working to reduce this fragmentation ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u98	I think I am giving Mr De Jong an opportunity for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u99	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I thought "hand in my own bosom," maybe something spectacular will come. For example, taking back the remark that there are supposedly only two groups, namely those who have got themselves into trouble and those who want the money from it. There are also people who, with great difficulty, can only keep their heads above water, who have worked very hard, who in no way want to make debts, who at the end of the month can no longer do their shopping in a normal way or can no longer pay their care premium and thus end up in debt. They end up in those debts by, for example, the government saying: here you have an account, which you cannot pay because, for example, the charges are only increased, but you have to pay it anyway, and if you fail to do so, then a fine goes beyond it. That way people will only get into more trouble. So would the Minister like to admit that there is also a group that can't help it at all? So that is a group that has not got itself into trouble, but which is the victim of, for example, Rutte II's policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u100	No one chooses to put himself in a situation where he is dealing with a lot of debt. That's a lot of subconscious stuff. And especially for people who have to live on a very small income that is sometimes incredibly difficult. So it's not like that has been a conscious choice or that I say: people have worked consciously in trouble. At the same time, people who have to live on a small income, a small AOW allowance or a welfare allowance also have to make sensible choices. They too have to deal with certain fixed burdens which should also be possible in principle. I'm not saying it's easy, but the Nibud also makes those lists. You really have to do the best you can for that. And fines, parking tickets, speeding tickets or that kind of thing are things that you can avoid by just sticking to the rules and making sure you don't catch traffic fines or commit criminal offences that result in a criminal sanction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u101	This is not a satisfactory answer. Now the minister even goes where he says: listen, if you have a small income and you work hard, have a family to support, make sure your child can go to the gym and make sure that at the end of the day there is still normal food, then you still have to have your balance and your expenses in order. But that's what a lot of people have, and yet a lot of those people are getting into trouble. I am not talking about people who are going to buy irresponsible, for example, 12 flat screens on the weekends when they can't afford it at all, but I'm talking about people who, without being able to do anything about it, have gotten into trouble on the basis of, for example, the policies of recent years. That happened out of their own fault. The minister started by saying: listen, you have two groups, namely the group that has got itself in trouble and the group that wants the money from it. Now there is one thing that is coming, namely increasing VAT, which makes shopping more expensive. We could say we don't. We can say: we are going to make sure that the people who have had to turn in a lot in recent years do not have anything extra thrown on top. I'm gonna try another way. Is the Minister prepared to reverse, when it comes to those people, such a measure that the cabinet would like to take? And why does that have to do with this particular subject? When you have to make the choice between buying a loaf of bread or paying a bill, it often happens that people say: yes, I have to support my children, I have to feed them anyway. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u102	Now the debate is really being held in a way that I cannot follow. Then we need to discuss whether the social minimum should be raised in the Netherlands and whether welfare benefits in the Netherlands are too low. That's a discussion we can have here. I don't know if we'll agree on that. But now it is said: for a specific group, you should not increase VAT. That's really too short a turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u103	A final final remark, Mr De Jong. And try to stay on topic, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u104	Sure. I wasn't talking about one specific group at all; I didn't say that at all. I'm dealing with a lot of middle-income people. Those are people who work hard and hard. But because they have not improved at all in recent years, but then see that everything is getting more expensive, they have got into trouble. That's what got us into debt. My question is: looking at those called in general, can you not say: okay, you know, there is now a VAT increase that will make the groceries more expensive, but let me not make it even more difficult for those people who are doing their best to make something out of it? So, for example, can you not implement such a measure? That's actually all I'm asking. That, of course, should apply to everyone. Is the Minister willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u105	Especially for the middle groups, this cabinet has an enormous eye. Then you can pick out one measure, but if you look at the total number of measures taken by this cabinet, then the middle groups are going ahead in purchasing power; you also know the calculations. Then there's the other point. Is it true that people with a certain income can't make ends meet? I'm not saying it's easy, but there are people who live on a very small income, even without debt. So to say that the minimum subsistence or welfare allowance in the Netherlands is so low that families cannot escape from working in debt to provide their basic necessities, I find it simply too short. This doesn't do you justice to a lot of people who manage to turn every dime every time, to be thriving on that housekeeping book, to maintain their family in a good way, in a way that they just get around at the end of the month.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u106	I found the Minister's speech on fines just as interesting. Of course, it is true: a traffic fine is in principle avoidable. Then it's about fines at the CJIB. But for people in debt, it is of course more difficult if such a fine is ever higher at some point. People in debt are indeed responsible for that fine, but they are always unable to cope with that increase. That is why I am very pleased that the government agreement says: 'The accumulation of fines due to late payments and administrative contributions is limited'. I am very curious to see exactly how the Minister sees this maximation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u107	This is a point of development which we are going to come back to in the spring, because we want to see exactly how this is going. At the same time, the increase in fines contained in it is not automatic either. People are given the opportunity to make use of a payment scheme even before an initial increase takes place. We want to look very closely at whether this system is satisfactory or whether it can be improved. However, the texts from the coalition agreement which you are quoting indicate that we would like to look at them more fundamentally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u108	But does the Minister also recognise that this avoidance does not, of course, matter anymore at some point? For example, if you are in debt everywhere, both at the CJIB and at the Tax Office and at the CAK, you can't say: the initial fine was avoidable. Can the Minister take into account in the follow-up actions that this avoidability can only go back to the initial fine and that it is not getting higher and higher?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u109	Yeah, I'm sure I'll take that. Of course, it always starts with an offense. It's avoidable anyway. Especially if you have to live on a small income, I would say: don't do anything crazy, don't drive too fast and you can name it all; so be careful not to run into it. The second part of avoidability is that if it happens once and you really can't pay, there is always the possibility to do so spread out, through a payment scheme. So I see that at some point, it could get a lot worse. Those measures have been taken to ensure that payments are actually made at some point in time. In this respect, it is a different matter from that of economic activity. There is also a question of maintaining the legal order. There's a pretty big sanction on that. But if you can't pay but want to pay, then there are ways to pay. Then you don't have to charge those fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u110	I'm starting to wonder what we're doing here tonight. It is usually the case that you have a letter or a coalition agreement and then you go into that more and more precisely in the debate. This is exactly the other way around. We hear a coordinating ruler who actually says less than what is in the coalition agreement. She also says: we take debt very seriously. And then the minister comes here to tell us a legal story about "it's your own fault and the entrepreneurs also have to get their money," while energy companies and the government are by far the biggest creditors. And now he says again: poverty isn't really a problem, because people can get away with very little money. What is it? Does the cabinet take this problem seriously and say it: it is one in ten households and there are children living in poverty, so the Secretary of State, who is a coordinating executive, is going to do something about it? Or does the cabinet say it's your own fault, everyone's gonna be okay, and everyone's gonna be okay? If the content of the proposals is not discussed, it is important that this cabinet should give some direction. That's not happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u111	It is interesting to see how Mr Nijboer has already taken on a good opposition role in three months and is trying to drive a wedge between these two rulers behind the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u112	I'd like to ask Mr. Dijsselbloem how the debates went then. It's been as sharp for the past five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u113	He's trying to make a caricature of what I'm putting here right now, but that's obviously a trick. What matters to me is a balanced image. I have already indicated at the beginning of my speech that we really understand that there are abuses, that people lack a perspective at some point and that we need to do something about it. We want to help these people. I have listed a whole series of measures from the coalition agreement, where we are going to put a lot of energy into it to make it work. So that's what we're going to do very seriously. This is without prejudice to the fact that the best advice to someone with a small scholarship or someone already in debt is: make sure that no additional fines are added. Those are things you can avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u114	There are two major political points. One: is this really a big problem and are we going to do something about it as a government? I hear the Secretary of State speak about this, while the Minister really emphasises the right. So I haven't quite figured out what the cabinet thinks yet. Two: a lot of questions have just been asked. I myself asked questions about the level of interest and about the unwound foot. I also asked what we are going to do about the fact that you sometimes have to apply for 18 regulations. Those are just my own questions and I do not have an answer to any of them. Colleagues have also asked many questions and no answer has yet been given to them. We're here for a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u115	We're not at the end of the debate either, Mr. Nijboer. I give the Minister an opportunity to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u116	I certainly have those answers, so I will continue with my speech. I have already said something about reducing...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u117	I'm gonna hesitate for a second. I believe that Mr Nijboer has the promise that the Minister will come back on a few points, but I would like to conclude the interruptions on the previous point. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u118	I've been very disturbed by a statement made by the Minister. Maybe he didn't mean it so hurtful, but it comes in very hurtful to me when you say...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u119	If the Minister says anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u120	Sorry. With me, it comes in very hurtful when the Minister says that people with a small scholarship can easily make ends meet. We have had discussions here about a Nibud study that people on welfare benefits with a family with two children are €200 a month short. When you say, people should be more careful... They don't have enough! The social minimum is clearly not enough. It's been proven by the Nibud. So I've been very disturbed by that remark you just made here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u121	I would like to remove that immediately, but I think Mrs Van Brenk has also put words in my mouth that I have not said. I'm not saying it's easy to make a living on welfare. I have just said that it is very difficult, that you have to live very cheaply and turn every dime around and that I have an incredible admiration for the families that can do that. I also know them: single mothers with two children who have to live on benefits and who do so without getting into trouble. That requires iron discipline. Sometimes it's hard on kids: you can't give your kids what you might want to give them as a mother. The point is that we are talking here today about a debt problem and what we can do about it. I'm fine with having a discussion, but then we'll bring the Minister of Social Affairs here. Then you should invite them and then we will have a discussion about the social minimum and the level of welfare benefits. I think we have a decent level in the Netherlands. It's very sober of you: very sober of you, but I think it's something we shouldn't be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u122	The suggestion is raised that people who can't do that, I say it again: it's been demonstrated by the Nibud, and the minister has put it away as people who can't handle the pennies carefully and properly. That's what's bothering me. I can imagine that this is very hurtful for the people involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u123	At least that's not the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u124	The minister mentioned fines, and he also said they're avoidable. But now there are also fines that you can ask yourself are avoidable, for example if you cannot pay your health insurance premium. What's the system now? You're gonna have to pay a quarter extra care allowance. So that's actually a fine on not being able to pay. My question to the Minister is: how can such a measure ensure that people get out of debt? Isn't that when debts get bigger?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u125	This is what's in the stack of things. I think we need to look carefully at how you do this in a careful way, so that on the one hand there is an incentive to pay, but on the other hand people who somehow cannot pay and therefore may be late, don't get into worse trouble because of increases. That is also why I refer to the fines we collect ourselves, for example through the CJIB. Before increases occur, people can make use of a payment scheme. Then, of course, the point is that they couldn't help it. We are on top of it ourselves and people can indicate via the website, via a letter or via the reply form that they would like to pay in a different way instead of suddenly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u126	Mrs. Voortman, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u127	If you can't pay your premium and then you have to pay even more, it doesn't help to pay it in pieces, because you have to pay your premium again next month. But do I understand why the Minister is saying that we are looking at this broad approach to debt, and this is something we want to look at?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u128	Sure. If someone has a problem with paying their care premium and also has problems with paying other accounts, not everyone should, so to speak, start a separate journey. It is then about how to put that together so that you can prevent someone from having a huge debt at some point that they find very difficult to come out of. It is then that you can intervene much earlier or help by, for example, agreeing to an appropriate payment arrangement with such a person.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u129	A brief interruption by Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u130	It is a hard neoliberal story that we hear here from the minister. It's a little bit of your own fault, big bump. If you look into the matter, you will see that people are in trouble because of the penalty regime. You put your hand in your own bosom. That was good. The government is a hard-on creditor. We have here, I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u131	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u132	In my view, we have broad support for the fact that it is strange that the government can make its fines many times higher than the collection agencies can, up to 300%. Are you willing to change that down?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u133	However, there is a difference between what collection agencies do and what the Empire does when it comes to recovering fines and penalties. Collection agencies relate to economic activity: I have a debt with you and I have to pay it. In the case of fines, there is also a law enforcement element. So you can't compare that with each other. That is also why another collection regime applies to the criminal law of, for example, traffic fines and criminal pecuniary sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u134	The minister just said he didn't want to let himself play out, but yes, he's asking a bit for it, because the Secretary of State just said: I embrace all the recommendations of the manifest except those about the bailiffs. And this is one. Here's one. It is said that these fines should be aligned with the collection regime, because it is very hard to see how that works now. A parking ticket of €400 is €1,200. That's way too fast. Is the Minister prepared to change that down?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u135	I am absolutely not going to anticipate that. I think my colleague has said that there are a lot of interesting things in the manifesto. We're gonna take a good look at that, too. I do not rule out that this is also one of the parts we are looking at, but to say in advance that we are bringing that down is too soon for me. You draw a parallel between collections of monetary debts in the economic sphere and penalties that should simply be carried out, also because we have all agreed to do so. I really think that's two different things, especially if there are payment arrangements for people who can't pay. If you don't want to pay or if you don't pay without making use of the arrangements that are there and are reasonable in my view, then that means that there is an extra burden on it. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u136	Thank you, Minister. Perhaps you could indicate in which cubes you contained the rest of your speech? I would like to agree with Members that we will then place the interruptions, which will be very short and concise in the future, at the end of each block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u137	Actually, I was gonna go to the second block. That's more about the regulation of the collection agencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u138	Then you'll continue your argument, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u139	We see that point too. It is a subject that has been raised before. You have read in the coalition agreement that, in order to overcome this, we want to move towards regulation of that sector. The bailiffs have already done so in a number of ways, with, for example, disciplinary law and independent supervision, but this is not the case in the collection sector. You and I can, in a manner of speaking, start a collection agency tomorrow. There are a number of fairly bona fide companies that do that in my view in a neat way, but there are also a number of cowboys, who do that in a way that is not acceptable. In fact, the Authority Consumer & Market is investigating these abuses. As you know, there is no further communication on the specific current investigations, but I can say that, of course, there is reason to look into them. It was also the reason to include a number of passages about this in the coalition agreement and to get to work on it. For example, we are going to work on the collection register. Some of you have asked how exactly we are going to shape that. That's a bit of a puzzle, because it's really a free trade now. We are still looking at whether it will be a public register or a private register and where we want to place it. That is also what we are discussing with the sector itself. With bailiffs, it's a little different. They are appointed by me. That is a much more regulated market. They are bound by strict rules and subject to supervision and disciplinary law. I understand the impatience of some of you. I believe that Mr Raemakers asked for it, but also Mr De Lange and Mr Kuzu asked when the register would be operational. At the moment, I find that really complicated to say. In any case, we are committed to the broad debt approach, which you can expect in the spring, not only to indicate the contours through which we would like to organise it, but also to come up with a real deadline for doing so. Turning to Mr Nijboer and Mrs Van Brenk's point on the sale of private debts, should it not be banned? We have already said in the letter that we do not really think that is necessary. It is a major economic intervention. The question is whether it really solves the problem. The problem is not the sale of debts, but the aggressive way of collecting. For example, it may be very good that a debt that has not been resold is improperly collected. Just as well, debts that have been resold may be collected in a very neat way. I liked the example in the debate. For example, we have to think of a small entrepreneur who finds it very complicated and cumbersome to claim a limited number of debts. At some point he takes his loss and hands it over to a professional office for a little less money. That then takes the risk of eventually finding out the blame. Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked about market forces in bailiffs. Mrs Voortman specifically asked about this. She asked what it brought us and why there is actually market forces among bailiffs. I think it is right to point out that when it comes to the debtors, it does not matter that there is market forces. There is strict regulation of the costs that may be charged for different transactions. That market operation lies in the relationship between the bailiff and the creditor, the one who, at some point, engages the bailiff. This is an incentive to ensure that bailiffs deliver good quality, not too expensive, etc. The question then is, of course, whether this is at the expense of quality. I do not think this should be the case with bailiffs. They are strictly regulated, monitored and subject to disciplinary law. If there are abuses or violations there may also be action. In fact, that's what's happening. For example, look at the annual reports of the BFT. You can read it all back. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer asked a question about usury interest rates. I think he is referring not so much to the interest rates imposed by the government but rather to the interest rates charged by lenders. We have also included in the coalition agreement the passage that we would like to look at. We really need to do this together with our finance colleagues, who are dealing with the regulation of the financial markets. There too we see things you say: maybe formally, because it is a contract between someone who takes a loan and a provider of money, but sometimes you can question morally. This too is quite complicated and again a serious infringement of economic activity and of the freedom of contract that exists, but that is certainly where we are going to rule. I think this is also a theme that can be reflected in the broad debt approach in the spring. Finally, Mrs Voortman asked a question about the criteria for access to the Wsnp; whether that is not very strict. That is indeed very strict; you do not just enter it. The law also has explicit review criteria, e.g. a failed out-of-court debt relief pathway is one of the important criteria. The municipality's debt relief policy therefore also affects that access to the Wsnp. We are looking at how we can improve the connection between these two routes. This, too, is a discussion on an important issue which we would like to address seriously. I'm repeating myself a little bit, but I hope you'll forgive us. It really takes some time to come to the Chamber with full proposals. We take this into account in the broad debt approach you can expect from us in spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u140	Let's talk about the sale of debts. The Minister doesn't want to deal with that. He mentions good examples, but I would like to remind him of the bad examples, the crooked agencies. I asked Parliament questions about this. The Greens and Investico have done thorough research on this. It is really not okay what those desks do, because the debtor is ruthlessly dealt with by those desks, often abroad, without any scruples. What are you gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u141	Then you're talking about how they collect or collect. We have found that there are genuine abuses and that we need to see how we can deal with them. Hence the idea of the collection register. Then you ask how it works exactly. That's another puzzle for us. The idea is that if you use methods that are not acceptable, lose your registration or license or are fined. At present, we have legal requirements in the law, but we see that they are insufficient to prevent this kind of abuse. The idea of the collection register is right to do so. That's something we're looking at seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u142	Then we have to wait and see. I was hoping we'd take some steps today. Does the Minister agree that it is very undesirable that a debt collection agency has never been fined, and that we should really hurry to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u143	Yeah, but that's also why we're working on it. There are requirements in the law, or the law prescribes for which increases and deadlines to apply, but there is no sanction tool. It is precisely because of the lack of that sanction instrument that we see that these cowboys can go their own way, unless they do something that is really not allowed, in which you can intervene with criminal law, or otherwise, but there is no kind of system of fines. That means we're empty-handed at the time. Hence working with the collection register, where we want those clubs to be certified and comply with certain rules and standards of decency. That is exactly why we are working on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u144	Thank you, Minister, for the first-term response. We shall proceed immediately to the second term of office. I have reason to suspect that there is a need for this at least for a number of groups. I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Van Dijk, SP. Speaking time shall be one minute including the opportunity to table any motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u145	Well, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna have to read very quickly, because I have three motions. And those are necessary, because the government's answer started well, but later it got a little less. That's why. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas approximately 1.5 million households have problematic debt;]] [[Says the Manifest Guilt-Free! proposes five measures to address debt issues;]] [[calls on the government on the five points of the Manifest Debt Free! to be used in the preparation of the comprehensive debt approach,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Decision regulates collection costs for market participants if an account is not paid in time and the maximum percentage to be calculated is 15%;]] [[Considering that the government itself has a different regime whereby, for example, a traffic fine can be increased to 300% and people who cannot pay their health insurance pay a third more premium each month;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how such government fines can be made less excessive and brought more into line with the Decision collection costs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Brenk, Mr Kuzu and Mr Voortman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-413]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-414]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u146	Last one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the current situation, one unwilling creditor can block the entire friendly debt relief process with a veto;]] [[Whereas this would penalise both the person in debt and the other creditors and delay the journey for months or years;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how it can be arranged that, if a two-thirds majority of creditors agree to a settlement in the friendly path, these arrangements are automatically made binding on all creditors, whereby a creditor can appeal to the court if he so wishes, but the process of providing assistance can start,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-415]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u147	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their answers. I would also like to thank the initiators, who remain here until the last moment. I think they have certainly succeeded in getting this debate here. I think we started with "let's make sure it gets as little political as possible." So it became a bit broad shared. I think that there is still much more political behind it, and that is why I think that we will have an exchange of views in the coming period. On my side, one or maybe two questions. It was said that there would be an approach in the spring. Given the impatience that I am experiencing in the Chamber and the impatience of myself, I do not think that there is already a possibility of a broad approach with all kinds of measures which will then roll out, but that there is already a view of, for example, low-hanging fruit measures that you can introduce quickly. I think that the unrest is big enough to deal with this at least in stages and not to do so in a huge roll-out at once in 2019-2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u148	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. Then I give the floor to Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u149	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for her commitment to address the time gap between a friendly and a legal path in the broad debt approach. Because it's precisely because of that that there are debts. I thank the Minister for the promise that he will look at the system where, if you cannot pay your health insurance contributions, you will have to pay even more. Such a fine on being poor also leads to higher debts. I do regret the Minister's response to my question about the market forces for bailiffs. Because I asked him what would help market forces and his reaction was: well, at least it doesn't bother debtors. But I don't think that's true. The moment you have ten creditors on your neck, it really doesn't make you pay your debts faster. As far as I am concerned, therefore, something really needs to be done here. We are waiting for the note on the broad debt approach and we are counting on concrete solutions that really help people. If these solutions are not in place, GroenLinks will make its own proposals. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u150	Thank you, Mrs Voortman. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn, who is 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u151	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to explore ways of limiting the buying-in on pay-off and how excessive interest rates on commercial loans can be contained,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas relatively many municipalities apply interest rates for social lending from 12% to 14% and this does not contribute to the goal of reducing and resolving debt;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with municipalities, to better align social lending rates with the target group and, if possible, to limit them to a maximum of 0% to 5%, and to inform the Court within six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Brenk, Mr Voortman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Kuzu and Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-416]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-417]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u152	The latter motion is based on the vision and principles of social lending, which states that the credit bank aims to provide social services with the lowest possible interest rate. That's certainly not 14%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u153	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Mr Raemakers waived his second term. I shall now give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am beginning to wonder more and more what is actually happening in the Trêveszaal, because there are so many measures in the coalition agreement, but we are always referred to spring. I really hope that this spring the cabinet will respond to all the points contained in the government agreement and the few points raised by the Chamber today, and there are many more. So there's still some work to be done. At least today there has not been much clarity for the people who have written the manifesto. I'm sorry to hear that. I have one motion on a point on which we really disagree with the cabinet. It's become clear. I want to go the other way, and the cabinet doesn't want to go that way, so the Chamber has to rule on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that certain debt collection agencies have very aggressive practices in debt collection;]] [[noting that a debt industry has developed which makes a profit in buying up debt;]] [[noting that buying up debts by debt collection agencies is causing further problems for people;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate how to ban the acquisition of debt by debt collection agencies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Nijboer, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Voortman and Mr Van Brenk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-418]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u156	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I shall now give the floor to Mr De Lange of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u157	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the cabinet for the answers given, but certainly also the initiators of the debt manifesto. I do not think it would be a good conclusion to say that this Chamber's attempt to look at an approach to debt issues and the best solutions to this would now be further than when we started the debate this evening. I heard the minister say it's puzzles. The great thing about puzzles is that you always start with a box where all the pieces are already in it to finally get to a final picture. I think that's the challenge. How are you gonna put the different pieces of the puzzle in front of that final picture? In the end, I think there is an idea of how to get there, namely that you want to give people perspective to get out of debt. On the other hand, however, an account must also be paid. That is the balance sheet that we need to look for in the future as far as the VVD is concerned. I therefore hope that the cabinet will speed up these proposals, with specific attention to getting a quick look at the collection register in order to get the wrong parties out of it really quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u158	Thank you very much, Mr De Lange. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u159	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I hear that very often the argument is used that we need to examine things more closely and that we need to wait until spring, until there is a manifesto. At the same time, however, we must also realise that, at those moments, the debts of debtors are increasing. In my view, therefore, concrete measures and rapid action are important. Mr. Chairman. In my contribution I also talked about the changing world, the changing technology and new basic services. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that legislation was introduced in 2004 which restricts the closure of gas and electricity, particularly in winter, inter alia by requiring first the use of debt relief;]] [[Whereas electricity and gas are basic facilities which, in the absence thereof, render a dwelling unviable;]] [[Whereas drinking water and Wi-Fi can now also be regarded as essential basic services;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a strengthened drinking water and Wi-Fi closure policy similar to the electricity and gas closure policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Van Brenk, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-419]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u160	Thank you very much, Mr Kuzu. As the last speaker from the Chamber, I shall give the floor to Mr De Jong of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u161	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. I have a very nasty taste in my mouth from this debate. Why is that? This is mainly due to the attitude of this Minister. I have rarely seen a minister so distant, talking with such arrogance and an incredible dedain about people who have fallen into a situation without their fault where they cannot make ends meet at the end of the month. Even when I say this, the Minister doesn't care at all. He looks a bit ahead, he drinks a little water and he thinks: boy, you have 30 seconds so what am I really worried about? This does not help at all the problems we are dealing with. There are people who, despite the fact that they work hard and hard, cannot make ends meet at the end of the month. I would like to stand up for those people, and I will use the time to show that the policy of the cabinet is not doing anything for these people, that the cabinet does not really want anything with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u162	There is an interruption by Mr De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u163	Thank you, Mr President. There is now a possibility to ask questions. You couldn't give room for that before. There is one more question that concerns me particularly. Mr De Jong, in your interrupting debate with the Minister, it was a question of fines imposed on a criminal offence. Does the PVV really think that you should put overboard the function of a fine, namely a penalty and also the satisfaction, and that in a particular situation you should actually pay a fine but simply no longer want to pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u164	No, that's really a caricature of what I said. It would have been much better if the spokesperson of the VVD Group had just gotten up to ask his own minister what he was really doing. There are people who are watching this debate right now, who have been caught hard in recent years and who are hearing it: you have got yourself into trouble. And that's what I'm standing up for. At the moment when people have made debts, there is someone who still has to receive money. Of course, that person must receive the money. I didn't say it wasn't. This cabinet should really be concerned about, for example, those middle-class groups that work very hard, who do not want to be in debt at all, but who eventually ended up in debt. These will then be faced in the coming years with, for example, an increase in VAT or high energy costs, which will not be dealt with at all. So the next time the VVD group looks at such a debate and sees that its own minister really doesn't care... then the VVD group can choose to make a caricature of the PVV story, but she would do better next time just to listen and stand up for the people that the VVD once stood for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u165	Mr. De Lange, a brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u166	In any case, it is clear to me, and I am pleased that - you also believe that bills and, ultimately, fines should be paid. That seems clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u167	Finalizing, Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u168	There is no discussion about this at all. The discussion is about the following. Suppose you work hard, have a family to support and have been facing higher burdens for years. Suppose at some point you can no longer bear those burdens because, for example, your own disposable income has not improved at all over the last 30 years. The difference between what's happening to our economy and what people feel in their wallets hasn't been that big in 30 years. That is a very big problem. I stand up for those people. I do not think that is more than logical.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u169	Thank you, Mr. De Jong. I shall suspend the sitting for a few minutes so that the rulers can gather their answers. And then we continue with the second term of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u170	I'm reopening the meeting. The next item is the 30-member debate on the debt industry and the Manifest Debt-Free! In the second term on the part of the government, I am happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u171	Thank you, Mr President. I have two further questions open and may receive a number of motions from your Chamber. In reply to the question about other examples of a collection break as used by DUO, I would like to say to the D66 Group, Mrs Van Brenk, that, as far as I know, there are no comparable examples. But next week I will speak to the manifestos, not to confuse them with the parties of the manifesto, but to the manifestos like the minister who indicated: the Tax Administration, the UWV, the SVB, the CAK and the CJIB, who have joined forces. I will then draw attention to DUO's working methods. There is also a question from the CDA, whether I am prepared to bring forward the broad debt approach more quickly and to pick low-hanging fruit as much as possible. I can tell you that I am really burning with ambition on this subject, but it is very difficult to come up with loose measures. I'm really in favour of seeing things in conjunction. No matter how impatient I feel, with the Chamber of Representatives I have heard this evening, I would nevertheless like to advocate the broad, coherent approach. Before I go to the motions, I would like to add the following, also in the direction of Mr Nijboer. He asked: has there been more clarity this evening, including for people who are following this debate at home or in the gallery? As far as I am concerned, it should be clear this evening that there is an incredibly urgent agenda which we are working on together. Not only the minister and I as we are here, but also other rulers in the cabinet. In fact, everyone has a link to the issue of debt. I too am familiar with Loesje's statement "at the end of the salary I always have a piece of month left." I am incredibly motivated to tackle this issue well, but I would like to be coherent. Then I'll get to the motions. I have a motion from Mr Jasper van Dijk and a number of colleagues, on item No. 413, on the use of the Manifest Debt Free! in the preparation of the comprehensive debt approach. If I may take the motion in such a way that it means "using as input," I am happy to give this motion judgment Chamber. The Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 415 I must advise against, because compulsory cooperation does not fit in with the voluntary pathways of debt relief. I would like to ask Mrs Van Brenk for her motion on item No. 416 to be retained. That is, of course, the harvest of a debate that is being held in the interim, when the approach has not yet been fully crystallised. To the extent that the motion has to be tabled in the context of the debt problem and the question of how it can be contained as a result of the buying-in on-payment and how excessive interest rates on commercial loans can be contained, I would like to say the following. The government agreement includes that excesses in lending will be countered, as well as earning models where high interest rates cause problems for people and the costs are passed on to society. I imagine that the cabinet will take account of your request in the motion when drawing up these plans, I say to Mrs Van Brenn. I would therefore ask you to hold the motion. If you put him to the vote now, I'm afraid I'll have to advise her not to. I would regret that, given the previous debate. Then there is another motion by Mrs Van Brenn, on part No. 417, on interest rates. This motion I must advise against, because it would lead me to assume local responsibility. The interest rate for specific social lending depends on financial risks associated with social lending, associated costs and local poverty and debt policies. The Kuzu c.s. motion in piece No. 419 requests that drinking water and wifi be included as basic facilities. This motion I must advise against. There is already a regulation for water, which is also being improved at the moment. Given the time I am glad that my children do not hear this, but wifi is not a basic requirement, at least not at home, because wifi can also be used in public places. Mr President, as far as I am concerned, I will conclude my contribution, but not until I have thanked the Chamber for the contributions which I am sure, as indicated at the beginning of the debate, will take as an input in the further development of the measures. I would also like to thank the initiators of the manifesto. Last Tuesday, when I received the manifesto, I told them that I would invite them to keep me sharp when further completing the work of the plans, and I would like to repeat that promise here in the Chamber. I look forward to a follow-up to this debate in the spring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u172	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. There is still a brief interruption by Mrs Van Brenk, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u173	Yes, I'm prepared to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u174	At the request of Mrs Van Brenn, I propose her motion (24515, No. 416). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u175	Mr. Chairman. Two motions remain. Unfortunately, I have to discourage Mr Jasper van Dijk's number 414, also because there is really a difference between fines and the regime of debts. Then the motion to part No. 418 by Mr Nijboer and others It's about a ban on the buying-in of debts by debt collection agencies. I must also advise against it. If you have a ban on buying up debts, that is going to affect the economy enormously. Then, so to speak, you have to re-examine the entire Civil Code. There are also banks that buy up debts and make profits with them, just to show how complicated this issue is. For me, the point is, and Mr Nijboer and I are not at all different about that, that we should do something about the real problem, and that is the aggressive way of collecting and collecting. We have to fight that. I need those rotten apples out. This is also possible with the plans for a collection register, and the Secretary of State and I are strongly opposed to this. I look forward to spring, because I hope for a nice debate in which we can give some more answers. Because I understand that a lot of Members of Parliament are saying: what a pity that a lot is being referred through. I really think we can take some very significant steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u176	Thank you. One last interruption by Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u177	Mr President, in reply to my motion, the Minister states that banks can also buy up debts. Well, you can find any amount of that, but it's not in that motion. There is a ban on the buying-in of debts by debt collection agencies. Exactly because there's so much trade in debt. I like the Minister's approach to an undesirable situation that has nothing to do with the motion, but that has nothing to do with that motion. I say that debt collection agencies should not act in this; they should not profit from it; they should not bother or intimidate those people, or I know what it is, because it is all behind the questions of high fines. That has nothing to do with those banks. So the argument the minister uses just doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u178	Mr President, the point I wanted to make is that there is nothing wrong with buying up debts. The problem is a nasty and aggressive way of collecting. You can buy up debts and collect them in a very neat way. Then there's nothing to worry about. You can, in a manner of speaking, collect unpurchased debts in an aggressive way and then there is something going on. So let's tackle the problem right where it is, namely the way in which it is received. We see there are now a number of cowboys we want to get rid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u179	Thank you. I still see an interruption by Mr De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u180	It's more of a point of order to get clarity. When advising on the first motion, the Secretary of State indicated that it should be read as an input. I was wondering if the authors would agree that the motion should be read in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u181	If I hadn't agreed, you would have heard, Mr. De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u182	That's what I assumed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-11.u183	I would like to thank the directors for their presence and answers to all the questions and the appreciation of the motions. We have come to the end of the 30-member debate on a debt industry and the Manifest debt-free! The vote on the motions will be on Tuesday.
