ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u1	The next item is the continuation of the budget debate on VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u2	We're ready for the first term of office. Before I give the floor to the VWS Minister, I would like to say that after him the Minister for Medical Care will speak and then the Secretary of State of the United States of America. Mr Agema has asked me to say something briefly because it will save a lot of interruptions, and I, as President, am very pleased with that. Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last year I was actually standing here with the same message. We have received written answers to a number of questions, but I am not happy with them. Answers are given to questions that I have not asked or my words are distorted, which makes it easy to answer, whereas that is not really what I meant. I am bothered by that, all the more so because there are a number of people there who work very hard, not these people; last night there were other people sitting there and writing down my words. So my words are literally recorded and yet I get answers to questions I have not asked. I find that annoying, because these pieces end up in the Acts as well. Normally I would fly forward with each of those things and interrupt them, but I'm not really going to do that. I made this point last year and I'm making it again now. I don't think my integrity can be compromised. I'm asking questions, and I'd like them answered. I do not want answers to questions I have not asked or whose words are distorted. I will leave it at that and in the second term I will draw conclusions, but I really do not think that this is the way things are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u4	Thank you. It's up to the Minister to respond. It wasn't really a question, but I'm giving him the opportunity to start the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u5	I would like to respond to that, Mr President. Yesterday there was until deep into the night by I do not know how many people in the beautiful department of VWS worked with heart and soul to answer the questions, so that it managed to answer all the questions as they were asked yesterday. If a question has not been answered correctly or if a question has been misunderstood, that can happen. Let me address myself to it, but let us not take anything away from the many work done by all the people of VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u6	Actually, I mean this kind of thing. I do not diminish the work done on VWS, but my words and the questions I have asked have been literally recorded. If then answers are then given to questions that I have not asked or if my words are distorted, which also leads to an answer that is not correct, I think I should be able to report it here. It's my integrity that's at stake. If there are answers to questions that I have not asked, in pieces that do end up in the Acts, my integrity will be compromised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u7	Mr. Chairman. Let's get started. Yesterday we discussed the question of how to quote Mrs Ellemeet 'the most interesting budget of the government'. Of course, we do not say that to colleagues, but we do. First of all, I would like to thank all the right compliments to those who work in the care sector, but also thank you for all the questions that have been asked and for all the reflections that have sounded in your Chamber yesterday. We agree on a great deal: the importance of good, accessible and affordable care, with sufficient time and attention for clients and patients and as little administrative burden as possible. You received the answers in writing at the beginning of the afternoon. All the questions that have been asked were there more than 170 questions have been answered. On a number, which are more suitable for an oral hearing as well, we are happy to go into it today. I want to organize that myself as follows. Indeed, some of these questions are organised in themes. I will start with the issue of affordability in this cabinet period and in the longer term. The second theme is access to care and life with a limitation, partly following the story of the Ombudsman, the Court of Auditors and the SCP. Then I want to cluster the questions about care for the elderly. I would also like to comment on a number of prescriptive questions from various groups. Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the cubes, I would like to make a few introductory remarks. We've been working on that beautiful department with that beautiful wallet for almost a year. If you take the view that the core of our political work is to make a difference in people's lives, and I am committed to that view, then care is the most beautiful subject to be able to work on. It was a year in which colleagues Bruno Bruins, Paul Blokhuis and I were allowed to look into the concerns people have about care, and in the answer that is most appropriate, along with that concern. In practice, like your Chamber, we have seen and heard many examples of beautiful, loving and personalised care. Take care that you would choose for your own parents, which you would want yourself if you needed it. In addition, we have also seen a lot of things that can and should be done better. On work visits I saw well-organised care, exactly fitting, aimed at the people who needed this care. No matter how complex this need for care was at times, it was nevertheless possible to organise that care. But I also got stories, in the mailbox and last night when I got home in the mailbox, with examples where it just doesn't work out to get the care organized properly. Yesterday, Mr Van der Staaij gave an intrusive example of a boy with autism who has been in a closed youth care institution for over a year. And that's gotta be different. We saw how smart applications often make people who need more care more self-reliant and less patient. Mrs Hermans told us about Marieke; Mr Rutte told us about Henny and Corien. These are wonderful examples of how cold technology helps to deliver warm care. Smart applications that also offer more space to our professionals. But we also see, like Mrs Hermans, that it is still not enough to deploy these applications on a wide scale. Several spokesmen have indicated that institutions are constantly reinventing the wheel for themselves. I spoke to a nurse who, after strictly removing the rules within the institution, said, "I just have an hour a day to do my job, to provide care. That's why I chose to take care of it." And that's beautiful, of course. But you talk so much more about the paperwork, telling how much of their time in the week goes on paper instead of care. Mrs. Sazias mentioned that, too. And then you think, "Why are we doing this to ourselves?" Who's gonna think that's necessary? All those sounds we heard yesterday in the contributions of the Chamber. Beautiful, moving stories on the one hand and sometimes poignant stories of what needs to be different and better. It shows that when we talk about care, it's best to speak with two words. There's a lot going well and there can be a lot better. 'Cause that does the most right thing to the care. Mr Raemakers was right to say that we have perhaps the best concern in Europe in the Netherlands. We have one of the best performing healthcare systems in the world. That's something to be grateful for. In every conversation with a foreign delegation, we are particularly admirably asked how we organize and pay for things here in the Netherlands, while we often have on the retina what needs to be done even better. And that is also right, because there can and should be much better. And by the way, if you don't manage to organize the care that is needed, then an international benchmark is not so crazy. Mr. Chairman. Back to the Netherlands. The visits we made, the discussions with the people at the table and the debates with your Chamber have resulted in a pact, twelve programmes and four main agreements. In doing so, we want to ensure that our care becomes noticeably better and remains good, affordable and accessible. Those programmes are in place and 2019 will be a year of work, of implementation, of implementation, of hands-on. The task is to say, I quote Mrs Bergkamp, that the actions we have planned are also felt. She said the improvements should be noticed. That is exactly what should be the key: to make things noticeably better for everyone who has to deal with care. "Take care of the people and the people," we have set out our mission in the introduction to the budget. And we do that together, together with you, with care and beyond. Nowhere in the department have we found a button on which we could push to radically change reality. I wish! Maybe we think here at this square kilometre in The Hague that this button could be the law, or the system or the money. But laws, systems and euros don't care. People do. I thought Mrs Agema's story made that very clear. She told the story yesterday about the last care her own parents experienced and the professional involvement. She said how meaningful that was to her parents, but also to herself. At that time, people make the quality of care, not the system. There are so many stories like that. Of course, laws get in the way sometimes. That's true. Systems don't always connect. That too is true. More money is always easy, of course. But the task is not so much to make the law or the system better, but above all to make reality better. That is what our policy is for. These programmes are intended for this purpose, with concrete objectives, concrete measures and concrete monitoring. Mr. Chairman. I'm going over to the cubes. I start with the affordability of care in the longer term. Mr Rutte sketched it strikingly yesterday. If you compare the images of demographic development, you can see that our country's demographics are changing dramatically. You used to be able to draw society into a pyramid. There were a lot of young people and very few elderly people. That pyramid gradually became a kind of onion in the nineties. And now you could say it's a pillar, a pillar, albeit with some bumpy edge. It may be a Corinthian pillar, but it is a pillar. People live longer. As they age, they often use multiple medications at the same time to keep chronic diseases at bay. Soon we'll have a lot of people to take care of, and actually no more people to do that job. The number of people with dementia will double in the coming years, until 2040. According to the future exploration of the RIVM, that number will increase from around 150,000 in 2015 to 330,000 in 2040. If you're trying to figure out what that means for the intensity of care, you know it's heavy. We already spend a lot of money on healthcare in the Netherlands. Net healthcare expenditure is over 71 billion this year. No, I have to say 'the financial year 2019', because it is in the budget before us. This is still excluding the own payments of about 5 billion, the budget-funded expenditure of over 3 billion and the care of municipalities, as it runs through the Municipal Fund from 2019. That amount is also about 5 billion. If you add all that up, you'll get a total spending ceiling of about 85 billion. These expenditures are also growing very rapidly. So next year it's 5 billion more compared to this year, but at the end of the cabinet period, healthcare spending is about 16.7 billion higher than in 2017, to provide everyone with good care. That is as much as we spent on agriculture, defence and development cooperation together every year. So the budget for development cooperation, the agricultural budget and the defence budget combined is the amount that will be added to this cabinet period for care. Already, 25 cents of every euro of public money we spend goes to healthcare. Let's compare it to something that costs a lot of money. A comparison like that always helps. Take the North/South line in Amsterdam. It's been 20 years. The cost was 3 billion. We'll give you exactly two weeks' care next year. An average adult pays €5.490 through contributions and taxes. So that's still without Wmo and youth care. In our work, it must certainly never be just about what costs anything. It's got to be about what's worth. Our health and care for those who love us are infinitely valuable, but our financial opportunities are not endless. That is why we have taken and will take a number of measures. First of all, these measures are aimed at ensuring the affordability of care for people who incur high healthcare costs and at preventing the accumulation of healthcare costs. The capital income adjustment for the Wlz is halved by January. The percentage of income included in the calculation of the own contribution has been reduced. Its own risk is frozen. And a subscription rate of €19 per month for the Wmo is introduced. Secondly, through the main agreements, Minister Bruins will thus go further into the increase in expenditure growth of 1.9 billion. Otherwise, this increase would not have been 16.7 billion but almost 2 billion higher. The same basic agreements agreed that it should be an ambition not to increase the cost of care for a multiannual period faster than the economy is growing. It's much higher now. A movement has been initiated towards the right care in the right place. Mr Bruins will go into this in a moment. This is how we keep the care affordable during this cabinet period, but we are not there yet. Some of you have referred to this in detail. We need to start thinking now to prepare the right choices for this cabinet period. Of course, we do this ourselves, in the department, in conversation with many people, including the signatories of the main agreements. But we also ask experts to consider how to keep our care affordable and accessible. Mr Slootweg asked for that. For example, we have asked the ESC to explore the increasing cost of care for the economy and its significance for the solidarity that underpins our system. At the request of your Chamber, we have asked the WRR to investigate the possibilities of keeping care expenditure manageable for the longer term, while also looking abroad. Of course, affordability and organisability are closely linked. So, following a motion by Mrs Bergkamp, we have a committee that will consider how to organise care at home, with substantially greater demand and not an increase in the number of people in the workforce. In this sum we have to prepare ourselves and prepare ourselves for the questions of affordability in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u8	I have a very brief question for the Minister. He talks about summing up and thinking. I would point out to him that one of my questions has not been answered in writing. It has to do with the cost of a certain treatment. I thought: let me bring it to the attention of the House, because then perhaps there will be an opportunity to think about it during the debate. Then we can debate it later. It's about the cost of recovery operations in genital mutilation. I would be very grateful if that question could be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u9	Mr Bruins replied to this question. Mr. Chairman. It is an achievement that our care is truly accessible to everyone. Not who or what you are or what you have on the couch decides what care you get. Mr Kerstens rightly said so yesterday. The care you need is available and accessible. I do not agree with what Mr Hijink said about this. Our system is characterised by the great degree of solidarity. We want to keep it that way. Healthy pays for sick. Young pays for old and high incomes pay for low incomes. That's how our entire system works. We would like to keep it that way, including for our children and grandchildren. I have another question in this block of Mrs Agema's on the Financial Review Standards Act that we have announced. Mrs Agema wonders why not just decide independently how much money is needed for its quality. Why a law to the Chamber to prevent this? This is, of course, due to the observations we have made on the new quality framework for nursing home care. Quality standards are drawn up independently by the field, or if one does not get out of it, by the Zorginstituut. Following registration in the Register of the Healthcare Institute, these standards can now automatically lead to substantial financial consequences. That actually happens without a political weighting, without a minister or without the power of the House of Representatives being able to influence it. The proposal for a financial review of quality standards enables a political weighting to be made between the added value for quality and the financial consequences for the quality standard. That is not the case at the moment, and that is what we want to do. Why? In order to restore the political primacy, where this type of trade-offs has taken place. It will work in such a way that the NZa makes a mandatory budget analysis and can thus identify these financial consequences. The Minister may then decide whether a quality standard with such a financial effect can be registered. The Chamber can therefore also appeal to the Minister. I think that is an important addition when it comes to the manageability of our spending. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going to the second block and that's about the lives of people with disabilities and access to care. A large number of questions and a large number of reflections were devoted to what needs to be changed and what needs to be improved in access to care and support, including for people with disabilities. With the Wmo and the Youth Act in 2015, the previous cabinet deliberately opted for care and support close to home, organized on its own square kilometres and without all separate flows of money, but in conjunction with each other, with the municipality being the first and closest government. And it is certainly true that, after decentralisation, there can be a solid number of improvements in our system. Moreover, this was also the issue of decentralisation and hence the very reason why we want to opt for these decentralisations. Mr Kerstens asked about it, Mrs Bergkamp asked about it and Mr Slootweg asked about it, namely: what to do with the observations of the Ombudsman, the SCP and the Court of Auditors yesterday in Trouw? I am happy to deal with this later, because they say that access to care needs to be strengthened, and that is the case. Nevertheless, I would like to strike a balance in what also happens by, among other things, saying that SCP has been said about the way it works now. We know from customer experience research that almost 80% of the Wmo clients are able to find access to care and that most clients, about 75%, are satisfied with the conversation in the context of municipal research and the solutions that result from it. We know from the SCP that the experienced quality of care and support is approved by most clients, namely 81%. But we also know that about 20% of the Wmo clients don't like access at all. These are, for example, young people with a slightly intellectual disability. The healthcare system is not easy for everyone and professionals do not always listen carefully to the people who ask for care and support. And people don't always know that they can use an independent client supporter. This sometimes leads to the fact that the package of care and support that has been delivered does not quite fit them well. Your question was: but what actions have been launched since these reports? The first is that we work with municipalities on access to care with the association of district teams and with knowledge institutes. This is what we do in the various programmes, and this means that the quality of the district teams and the effectiveness of the district teams are strengthened. We support municipalities in different ways. The second, one important, is the work on client support. 55 million has been made available to better organise customer support in access and improve awareness of independent customer support. And there is expertise from client supporters to improve the support of particularly vulnerable groups such as young people with lvb in combination with behavioural issues. There are a number of pilots on which we are committed to the Full Life Programme. Of course, we are going to talk about this programme, but we are also doing a number of things in the social domain in the area of customer support. I pointed this out last week in the direction of Mrs Bergkamp. This includes that group of young people with lvb in combination with behavioural problems. In addition, we are also making a range of improvements in many programmes. I mention 18-min/18-plus, improvement of care, integral pgb et cetera. One more thing, Mr President, is that people sometimes don't know the way. Those people are gonna be in my mailbox, too. They also come to you in the mailbox. Then what we do is help people on their way. And we have also set up a support structure for this with the right window.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u10	This minister has launched a proposal to give 450 families with a child with severe multiple disability additional support in finding their way into the maze, say the maze that has become the care. That sounds very nice, but we read yesterday in the newspaper that one of the parents who spoke to the minister said: "Stay away with your plan. We were interested, but we are now saying: we really do not want this at all." In fact, he writes: I hope no one is going to report for this. Why? He says: this is another person that we are going to get to the front door and who is going to explain to us again what is happening and it is again an extra layer of people who are not going to care. How does the Minister respond to such a letter and what does he say to this parent?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u11	The first thing I'm gonna say to these parents is that I'd like to talk to them. It seems that the background to this idea has not come across sufficiently. We didn't come up with this on our own. We didn't think of that in the department. That is the Working Group We see you have been, with parents of very serious intellectual and multiple limited children, who, under the guidance of Ton Heerts, have come up with some very serious proposals to improve support for those parents. It's not about creating an extra layer. That's what I read in it: another person who doesn't care. No, it's about supporting, really supporting parents in just very complicated regulation, not only in what you have to formally regulate for care, but also in what you have to do together in the combination of care and family life. They've called that "a copilot," someone who can take control of the wheel for a while when it's getting too much for parents. We didn't think of that. Parents came up with that. They have asked whether we want to make this possible. And I said: yes, that seems to me a very sensible idea. Not only for parents of severely limited children, but also for complex autism, e.g. with severe behavioural problems, non-congenital brain injury. Then Mrs Bergkamp said: yes, but if you don't belong to these four groups, do you fall outside? No. Children are not always easy to classify, so we also want to set up such a pilot for other parents with a very complex support question, a complex care question for their child. I would very much like to explain that to this father, because I did read that letter and I was sorry that he reacted that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u12	I know where the initiative comes from, and I would basically welcome any extra help these families can get. However, the problem is that the common thread in this criticism, the message underneath, is, of course, very serious. The health care system as it is at present, with the different laws, the different rules, the different points of contact, has become such a maze that an average family simply loses its way. Their criticism is: don't send someone else at us every time. We've got the case managers, we've got the copilots, the care buddies, so on and on. There have all been groups of people who do not necessarily care, but try to point the way in the maze. While their criticism is: remove that maze! Just make sure we can find our own way!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u13	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u14	Well, that's my question. Is the Minister prepared to solve the underlying problem instead of sticking patches alone?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u15	If Mr Hijink comes up with a concrete simplification or improvement of the system, I am very willing to look at it very seriously, but I fear that reality is just a little more complex than that. I'm afraid it's not a matter of shifting a few cash flows, merging counters or anything, and you're done. The reality is more complex than that, because the support question these parents have to deal with is so complex that you can't just focus a system on it differently for a moment. When it comes to the possibilities within the system we have, they are almost endless. Is everyone being helped perfectly? Is there immediate appropriate care for everyone? No. The support question that parents of a very severely limited child have is so complex that we simply have to help them. There's no change in the system. Concrete help to that family is the only thing that helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u16	I read the article, too. What I'm getting out of it is just a little bit different. I share the last remark. These parents really wanted to participate, because they needed it, but then came to the conclusion: should we not also simplify the system or access? Shouldn't that be the main message? I have to say, of course. In fact, you're hoping a client support isn't necessary. Besides, I think you always need people to help me, for example, if I hear that from parents who have a severely disabled child, to help them with a bit of mourning in it. So completely without help and support...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u17	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u18	My question to the Minister is: as far as access is concerned, that is also why I asked to look at it a little bit more. It would be extremely helpful if people were not referred to every time, but that if they are at a Wmo window or somewhere else, that person feels the responsibility there to take that question seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u19	I very much agree with that. This is also one of the observations in the Ombudsman's report. There's this in there, too. We have agreed with the Court that we are discussing the HLZ evaluation in connection with what the Ombudsman has found on the basis of case law. In the first quarter of 2019 we will come up with a response to this. I'd like to have this conversation with congregations. Most people feel well helped by the municipalities with such a kitchen table conversation. Nor should we pretend that nothing is going well and that access everywhere is obviously complicated. For about 20% of people, that access is complicated. This is sometimes because people need more support, but that is also because access by municipalities is too complicated organised or not suitable for every group that bangs on the door. So I'm gonna talk to congregations about this. You have asked me very specifically whether we can hear back what has been improved on the bottlenecks identified by the Ombudsman. Does the Ombudsman see this as well and does he notice it with what he gets? Could the SCP also play a role in this? I need to talk to the SCP about how they can play a role in this. What I would like to do in response to the HLZ evaluation is to come back in the first quarter after the talks with what we can do with the observations that have been made. I think I would like to return to Mrs Bergkamp's question about whether it works in practice for the 2019 budget. I will do so in consultation with the SCP and the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u20	I agree. With another whole system discussion, people won't get anywhere. The question is how we can improve reality. That's important. I'd like to give the Minister one more thing. It is not just about the services provided by the municipalities, but also about the fact that people sometimes receive care under two or three laws. In between they sometimes feel like a ping-pong ball. It would be very nice if the Minister also wanted to take this issue explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u21	I'd love to. That is actually what the Court of Auditors, one of the three institutes in the article in Trouw, is observing. People are referred by some municipalities. They get the impression that they should be with the CIZ because they think they can claim the Long-Term Care Act. Then they come to the CIZ and the CIZ says: yes sorry, but this really isn't a care question that fits within the Long-Term Care Act. The CIZ says that this list is quite long in some municipalities while in others it is almost non-existent. In short, the one municipality is much better able to assess when there is a Wlz appeal and when there is a claim under the Wmo, Youth Law or Health Insurance Act. This is what the CIZ picks up by talking to the municipalities where the list of rejections is long. That's one. Two is the next question. If you now have a parent who has no claim to the Wlz, isn't it also possible to return hand-in-hand to the municipality? Is it really "the computer says no" and can the parents find out for themselves? This creates a locker-to-the-wall experience with the parents. You don't have to. There's no need for that. We can really do better than that. I'd like to talk about that, and I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u22	The Minister just mentioned what has already happened in relation to the Ombudsman's report on access to care. Despite so much happening, I ask the Minister the following. It is an unmistakeable signal that three fine gentlemen, the Ombudsman, the President of the Court of Auditors and the Director of the Social and Cultural Planning Office, called in the newspaper yesterday. That happened on the day we started discussing the VWS budget here. I conclude from that that, at least according to the three gentlemen and the organisations behind them, it is still far from enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u23	What they put in the newspaper yesterday, they have also sent reports to the department before. This was done following the evaluation of the choices made in recent years. I am less gloomy about this than the qualifications that Mr Kerstens himself gave yesterday. I think their observations are very much in line with the choices we make. For example, the SCP says that 80% of people know how to find their way, but that 20% find it harder to find it and then says that you should actually support people better. That's very much in line with the choices we made about client support. I also understand Mrs Bergkamp's question: show us, next year, to what extent the measures we have taken in response to the reports have helped in practice. They were not new observations that were mentioned yesterday in the newspaper, they had already done so in those reports and measures have been taken on that basis. I'd like to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u24	The qualifications I used yesterday, if the Minister did not notice the position of vulnerable people and that the alarm clock is sound, are not my qualifications. Those are the qualifications of the gentlemen I just mentioned. For example, it took almost six months for the Minister to reply to the Ombudsman's report six months ago. Not only did the Ombudsman find it necessary to ring that alarm clock in the newspaper yesterday, but he also found it necessary to remind the Chamber a few days before the budget procedure that the Minister had misinterpreted his recommendations. That was about that one window. I'm just gonna ask the Minister again. In response to Ms Bergkamp, he indicated that some more information would be provided for the 2019 budget debate. Then we will be one and a half years after the Ombudsman's first cry for help. Can the Minister understand that a little more pace is needed, not just according to those three gentlemen, but also in my view?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u25	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u26	In terms of qualifications, I really meant the qualifications that Mr Kerstens used yesterday, about the fact that care has become a maze and that people are lost in it and about the great drama in youth care. Those were yesterday's qualifications, and that's what I think: well, that's a little heavy. As I said, I am a little more enthusiastic about the choices made by the previous cabinet, as I say in the direction of Mr Kerstens. That's one. Two is that I have just outlined what we have all done, including in response to the Ombudsman's report and in response to the observations made by the SCP. I believe, on the contrary, that this reaction is very much in line with what the three institutions as you call it, namely to help people find their way into that system. Not for everyone, because it's actually going pretty well for most of us. There's just a part of it that doesn't find the way by itself. Those people are gonna have to take you by the hand, and that's exactly what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u27	One more time, Mr. Christmas. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u28	I just want to make sure I got it right. The Minister considers that the pace is high enough if it takes six months for a written response to the Ombudsman's report to be provided, if that written response indicates that after a number of discussions in the spring, we will be returning to the Chamber how and what, and that he indicates here that we will hear a little more before the 2019 budget debate. Then we'll just be a year and a half away. I'd like to see the pace a little higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u29	Now Mr. Kerstens confuses the reports himself and also confuses what writing a reaction is and doing things. People don't have much use for a cabinet response. They have something to do with ordinary things. So you're helping them by setting up client support. That's what we do. You help people by, for example, taking them by hand in individual cases and pointing the way. That's what we do with the right care in the right place and that's what we do with the right Loket. That's what we do. Indeed, it is also true that we need to discuss the evaluation of the HLZ which is a rather bulky report, with such a pile of observations first with municipalities and with providers to see what is the most sensible response to it. But I'm not gonna wait till we finish the paperwork.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u30	Good. Have you also come to the end of the block about living with a disability?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u31	Well, not quite. But I can carry on, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u32	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u33	That's what you mean, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u34	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u35	Then the VVD, Mrs Hermans. She asks why intensive care needs to be demonstrated every year for care from the Youth Act for children with severe multiple disabilities, if we really know that this restriction is not over within one year, even within two years and that it is likely to be a lifelong one. However, there is a great deal of difference between municipalities as to how this is handled and how municipalities dealt with it just after the decentralisations and in the meantime. But some municipalities are indeed quite of the annual rededication. I don't think that's necessary. This seems to me to be very burdensome for parents anyway, but also for municipalities themselves very inefficient. So I would like to talk to the VNG about this, and I would like to specifically draw the attention of the municipalities to that multiannual indication. So I'd like to get on with that. A question that also fits into this block, albeit in a different way, is Mr Van der Staaij's question and Mr Slootweg's question about people with a complex need for care with whom the question of care actually goes over the different domains, for example if there is a combination of ggz and care for a intellectually limited one. That's how I understood the question. It is a question of concern that is so complex that the answer to that question is not easy to look for. In the Health Care programme for Youth, attention is paid to this, but also to the programme of life of full dignity, about disability care, which I have just sent to the Chamber. With laws or regulations, this is not easy to adapt. The laws or rules do not make it impossible, but the offer is very difficult to achieve. That is why we have said: we should actually create 100 extra places for the group that is most difficult to place, but you know what I mean, 100 more places, so that we can really create that space at very specialised institutions and answer this complex question of care properly. In addition, and in addition to that, I would also like to set up an additional number of outpatient teams that can also help such an institution on site to provide an answer to a complex care question. I have looked a little away from these teams from what already exists in a number of regions. If it doesn't work now, for example, endless calls are made, all weekend long, to find a place. After that, we have to move again. That's all very complicated. You'd better get the care to that location. In addition, there's client support as we just named it. In this way, I actually want to respond to that question, which is quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u36	The question stems a little from those 100 places. That's what I understood from the letter writer from Limburg. The point is that the money itself is not really the problem, but that the locations and also the expertise are the problem. It's about situations where you have such a multi-limited child at home and there's actually no light on the horizon. Does the Minister recognise that it is mainly a lack of location and expertise? Or is it also a money problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u37	No, it is my firm belief that it is not a money problem. This all fits perfectly within the Wlz framework. My impression is that it is so complex and specialized that you just can't do it at every location. Of course, you can see that more in medical-specialist care. See also that the most specialised treatments are always concentrated, in two hospitals, in three hospitals. The Princess Máxima Hospital has concentrated children's oncological treatment entirely in one hospital. We do that because it requires so much knowledge, so much expertise. This knowledge and expertise are simply not present in every institution. Therefore, you need to concentrate somewhat to keep it qualitatively at an adequate level. It will not succeed in achieving this in every region, but it will succeed in achieving it in parts of the country. This concerns high-complex care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u38	Clear. That was enough for Mr Slootweg. Mr Van der Staaij also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u39	I recognize what the Minister says, but I notice that sometimes the image is a bit diffuse. Especially when it comes to mentally handicapped people, I often hear that in that VG 7, which is a more serious concern, it is sometimes difficult to get around with the money. Is there any consideration in these examples that the Minister is going to examine in greater detail as to whether there may also be any financial problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u40	Yes, of course we are talking to VGN about that. On the basis of cost research, nearly 100 million has been added to the Budget Framework. In addition, 78 million has been added for target transport. That was done on the basis of cost research. And we do know that a number of providers say that in differentzzp's, or actually especially inzzp 7, the budget is too tight. That is not clear from the cost study. They say: no, but that is what we would actually need to provide that complex care. I think it's good to take a very good look at the differentiation here as well. If this is about such high-complex care, then perhaps it is not entirely appropriate within that zzp. It could be. By the way, Mr President, we are very much going into the abbreviations. This is what we need to discover, and I'd like to talk to VGN about this too, with the umbrella organisation of the providers. But that shouldn't keep us from these high-complex places... Because of course it's not about the entire population of zzp, of VG7. Not at all; it is about a number where you see that the learning disability requires care in combination with, for example, a psychiatric disability. It is precisely this combination that makes the expertise needed to provide this well so complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u41	The pilots, which are also mentioned in the written reply and which the Minister also mentions, are therefore also aimed at getting a clearer picture of exactly what it is in and how to remedy it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u42	Exactly; yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u43	It doesn't quite make sense what the Minister says. We also had a debate earlier this year on the manifesto drawn up by various organisations. That was precisely about the group that is now receiving the most basic care, i.e. food, drinking, washing, but of which all these organisations, including the inspection and researchers of the University of Groningen, say: that basic care can be provided, but the development that is actually needed for this group is lacking, and that actually requires additional budget. I asked about that yesterday. The question is still whether the Minister also sees that this money is needed if we are to be able to provide more than just a little basic care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u44	That is actually the same answer I gave in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij. We have added budget to a number ofzzp's based on the cost research as it has been done. Budget has been added where target transport is concerned. Those were the results of the cost study. The cost study has been taken over and the observations have been incorporated into the rates. In addition, I recognize what Mr Hijink is saying. That is actually what Mr Van der Staaij says, namely that providers say: on VG7, we would rather be able to do more than we are doing now. It is also a question of whether this is about the same problem, as I said just now in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij. Because of course it is not about the whole target group but about the most complex part of it. There's another way to solve that. On this observation about VG7, I am in consultation with VGN. But, of course, I can't just do it outside of the cost study, because your proposal was to add 100 million. Of course, it doesn't work that way. I can't go beyond the cost research and beyond the Wlz estimate, as it just works very structured every year, just put 100 million on top of it. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u45	Strictly speaking, it's VG8, but that's a detail. It's 6,500 people. What the Minister says just doesn't add up. The cost study was based on cost prices in the past and dealt with whether they were actually in line with the care that had to be provided. The conclusion was: no, those rates were actually too low and that is why the EUR 98 million was added. That's different from what this manifesto is about. Researchers and scientists say that more development is possible on top of basic care...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u46	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u47	... but it cannot now be delivered within this rate and that is why that extra budget is needed. I just want the Minister to be honest and say that EUR 98 million was intended for the cost studies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u48	That's right; that's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u49	Yeah, but this manifesto isn't about cost research. They say that an additional 70 million is needed to deliver more than basic care. That's two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u50	I know the manifesto. Those are two different things, but I will explain to you that we have acted on the cost research and that we are talking about the manifesto with VGN. I just said that. So I don't think we disagree, just about your solution we disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u51	I think you're at the end of your block by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u52	No, I have one more question to answer, from Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Van der Staaij, and I would actually have one more amendment. But that is really up to you: do you want to do that during the thematic debate or do you want the amendments at the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u53	It is perhaps efficient to do this thematically, because then everyone will be aware of the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u54	Yes, of course that is exactly what we want! Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Van der Staaij have asked a question about the image of people with disabilities. Indeed, I think it is important that people with disabilities are visible in society. I'm sure that will contribute to a more positive picture. Those programmes are particularly unlimited!, What we have talked about before, but also Full life... contribute to this. I can't imagine it any other way. Campaigns can also contribute to this. Campaigns have also been launched in recent years. But I would like to participate from the program Unlimited! pay attention to this positive image in the coming years. I would like to talk to the partners involved, because it is not just government, it is also, for example, companies, entrepreneurs, all kinds of parties in the social sector, and we are talking about how best to shape it. So I actually see your question as a homework assignment for me. I'd like to get to work on it and I'll get back to you in early 2019. Then I come to the amendment tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Hermans on innovation in disability care. The authors actually say that everything is happening in disability care, a lot of beauty and news, but it could be much faster and, above all, much wider embedded in the whole quality development of disability care. I recognize that image. That is also the reason why we have freed up budget in the Full Life Programme for innovation impulses in disability care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u55	Minister, I note that you have already responded in writing to the amendment. You don't have to repeat everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u56	Not everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u57	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u58	You just want me to tell you the final judgment, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u59	I think that's very wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u60	Let me do that: it seems to me to be a sensible thought, so I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Yeah, that's all the excitement, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u61	Yeah, it's already on paper, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u62	It was a marvel of a build-up in the argument. I'm gonna go ahead with the old block. In order to prepare ourselves for that society with substantially more elderly people, we closed the Pact for Elder Care, which now has 170 parties, to ensure that older people feel valued and well-known and can truly participate in our society. Part of that pact are those programs Langer Home, Home in the Nursing Home and One against loneliness. One of the most strong observations that you made yesterday is that older people living long at home and unable to go to a nursing home need support and that, at that point, Mrs Sazias called it a gap, should actually do more to bring about new home care arrangements. The SP, of course, referred to its own plan for the care neighbourhoods and asked, now that it has been enthusiastically responded to by a majority of and I think even the entire Chamber and by the Cabinet, when it comes to action. A few things about that. One. We're going to get a picture of each region that has a local task at this point. We also create a support team to help with that. Two. We help initiatives aimed at checking whether older people still live properly, for example residential coaches. There are many beautiful initiatives in municipalities, but they are quite individual initiatives in municipalities. In order to learn from this and spread it, we work together with the municipalities. The third is the actual support of the care neighbourhoods in this context, as well as of new forms of housing and care. That is why we have created an incentive arrangement. The SP's question in the memo consultation was whether the care neighbourhoods could hitch a ride on that. The answer is yes. That arrangement is in the final phase. She'll be published soon. There are a lot of candidates for it already. The scheme will enter into force on 1 January. It actually sees three phases of construction. The question was: does it have a direct effect? Yeah, it has a direct effect on every phase. It's about projects in the planning phase. Older people come together to start a new initiative, for example. Then we'll support the planning phase. We'll do that right from day one of the start of the scheme. Two. In the development phase there is talk with an architect, there is purchase of land. Then the scheme offers the opportunity to take out a loan. That too is just as readily available as soon as the scheme is available. The third is the actual realization, the construction. Then it can be a guarantee from the bank, for example 15%, so that a loan can be made. This is also possible from day one. There is already a great deal of interest in this scheme, so I hope that this type of initiative, which is very similar to the own-initiative paper you have produced, will be able to help lift it to the scheme. In addition, we all do other things, but you already know them all. I am, of course, terrified that I am being addressed again by the chairman. Mrs. Agema asked about the nursing homes. She asked me if I would be willing to keep empty nursing homes to transform them into housing units with lower rents, for example. Eventually owners of that real estate decide for themselves what happens to it, but that has actually already been used quite well. The rental of those empty inpatient places is already taking place. We've been looking into that. It appears that in recent years about half of the healthcare providers with such care homes that became empty have been renting out those vacant inpatient places. They offer within the walls of that former nursing home an arrangement based on the separation of living and care. In addition, you can see that they are actually being converted into new concepts in the area of living and care. We also discussed this in the discussion of the SP own-initiative paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u63	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u64	I, too, have asked questions about this. I have seen that the Minister has responded to this, but what he does not appoint are the elderly who leave a social housing. His introduction was about elderly people leaving a house for sale, joining hands and living apart. Indeed, I see a lot of initiatives in the country. It is good that this is streamlined and that we are looking at where rules can be adapted. It is also a good thing that we have an innovation regime, but in fact these housing corporations should simply move.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u65	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u66	What does the Minister think?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u67	I think the question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u68	He is working with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on an action programme. What are the housing corporations gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u69	That is why I have been particularly interested in buying, but it is absolutely true: housing corporations, of course, have the perfect opportunity to organise this well. They know who's in their corporation, they know who's in their social housing, and they also know the pressure on the social rental market. So it's the landlord who can have an early conversation about questions like "isn't that house getting too big?" And "aren't those stairs starting to get very clumsy?" Mr Ollongren is talking about this with the housing corporations. We have lived together the line of action and created care. This is one of the points that we need to work on further. By the way, we see corporations that do, but it is still too little. There really can be a lot more there. So I'm actually totally in agreement with Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u70	Enough? No, one more follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u71	I'm tasting a huge drive with the Minister and his colleague. I also think it is right for the government to play a leading role, because the share of social housing for this group of elderly people is simply undervalued. It is very good that there are enough private initiatives, but we really need social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u72	I think you agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u73	I have the answer here, too. Of course, I'm going straight to that hole that I made an important point of yesterday. We do indeed have the Langer Home programme, as you say in your reply. That is, of course, a very nice programme on paper, but it is precisely because the reality is different. We can use fine words here, but reality is different. That is also the case when you say that through the Langer Home programme, we need to achieve a sufficient supply of suitable homes and new, possibly clustered forms of housing for the elderly. Enough supply of suitable homes? You yourself have just mentioned all your colleague Ollongren. Of course, there's an overlap with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u74	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u75	Are you aware of the enormous problems in the housing market, the tightness, the stagnation, the high prices? Are you aware of this and...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u76	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u77	Do you understand how to make this work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u78	I know very well what Mrs Sazias says. I already said in my introduction that there is no button on the department to push very hard and suddenly there are all houses ready for you tomorrow. That's not how it works. It's very tough. That is also why I am hanging out with fellow Minister Ollongren, first in the region to look at what needs to be done, what demographic development looks like, how many homes are needed, what type of housing, in order to get a good picture of this local task. That's the first thing that matters. The second thing that matters is something that has been developed in some municipalities: how do you help or how do you coach your elders to think on time about that step to the next home, to pick it up together with the municipality, in a support team where the municipality can help? The third is that new forms of housing and care must be built. That is what we discussed in the discussion of the SP own-initiative paper. That is why we have set up an incentive arrangement. In addition, we do other things: with a knowledge programme, with the Rijksbouwmeester, with a community of practice. We've put a lot of things in motion, but they don't deliver homes immediately tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u79	The Minister has said it very kindly. I'd appreciate it if he'd give us a little more urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u80	Oh, gee, I don't know if that would make everyone equally excited, but I'm working. Mrs Hermans asked if there is any added value of combining knowledge in the nursing home and knowledge in the neighbourhood. I can definitely see that added value. I can see that this knowledge is still being used too little. I think I was addressed to that last year by Mrs Ellemeet. With the Langer Home programme, we are already doing a number of things to strengthen that. The most important thing is the measure to make the specialist on old age medicine also available in the first line. That helps. We have created an additional incentive arrangement for this. This means a doubling of the commitment of the senior medical specialist in the first line compared to 2017. This is from the nursing home into the neighborhood, but the other way around is just as necessary. You see beautiful things, like the intake starts in the neighborhood and there's some kind of warm transfer from neighborhood care to the nursing home. These examples are not visible everywhere in that way. When it comes to taking advantage of the knowledge of the nursing home in the district, but also about getting acquainted in the district to make the switch from home to the nursing home as smooth as possible, I think we really still have work to do, and I'd like to get started with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u81	Let me first say that that extra money available for the employability of the specialist on old-age medicine is a very important step. The Minister writes in reply to the complex question of care in crisis situations at home, but I was referring to my question about the situation before that, because that is what we would like to avoid, in order to make the transition to the nursing home more flexible, so that you can land a little warmer when you get there. This is not only because of the specialist in old-age medicine, but also because of the knowledge that the nurse, the nurse, or perhaps the helper from the nursing home has. How do we take that knowledge from the nursing home to the neighborhood?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u82	That happens too, not everywhere, but it does happen. It is often about people who are known to be going to the nursing home in a few months' time. Then it just starts with getting to know: how does a person live, what is a person's life story or background? You could call that a wonderful example of real personal care; the desire to get to know someone, to understand their misunderstood behavior, so that that transition from home to the nursing home goes as smoothly and easily as possible. There is a lot going on in there, but I really think there is a lot more to be done there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u83	Well, at least we're talking about the same thing now, but I have one last question. If it is happening now, but not yet enough, does the Minister have any idea what exactly the bottlenecks are?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u84	Perhaps it would be wise if I told Mrs Hermans that I would like to talk to the parties involved in Langer Home about what more can be done. I think there is a lot to learn. There are really some very nice things happening, but how do we make sure that this way of working is widened? What more does it take? I really think that more research can be done on this, so I would like to work on that with the parties involved in Langer Home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u85	The Minister is right to point out that it is very desirable to make the transition of older people from home to the nursing home as flexible as possible, for example because there is an earlier acquaintance. However, this is still happening very slowly. There are indeed some nursing homes that see the space to do so. A lot of nursing homes don't experience that space. The Minister also rightly states that the specialist care for the elderly does not leave the nursing home for nothing and goes into the neighborhood. Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that we should extend these opportunities not only for the specialist on old-age medicine, but also for the nurses and caregivers who are now working in the nursing home, so that they can already accompany the elderly who are going to make the transition at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u86	This is kind of a complicated question. He sounds very simple, but it is a rather complicated question, because this also has to do with funding. Of course it has to do with that. Can you already provide care for counseling when it's really about caring while someone isn't actually in that nursing home yet? Can you meet someone you know is coming? For example, can you start working with the care team that now provides care at home, so that you really make a warm transfer? I'd think that's just possible. You're actually asking a similar question. Let me put it this way: I like to discuss this with the parties. Perhaps a few things should be investigated for that. What would be desirable to ease the transition from home to the nursing home? Where are the obstacles to just doing that? I do think that there is much more possible than we think, but at the same time it is not unlimited; I believe that too. So let's see what we can do better and how we can do better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u87	It seems very important to me to see what the possibilities are and how we could expand them if necessary. Of course, we should not think from the systems that we have created laws and thus boxes for the elderly. The point is that we support the care journey that the older person makes. The quality of life of older people should also be central to nursing care. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this also includes the switch from home to the nursing home. As far as I am concerned, that must be an essential part of the good nursing care we want to provide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u88	Agreed. If you put it that way, I certainly agree with you. A lot of people will agree with you, but they are still not doing enough. We can see that. So I really think it is important, as I have just said to Mrs Hermans and also to you, to look into this more closely: what should be better and what do we apparently encounter in practice? What options should then possibly be extended? Let's get to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u89	Mr Van der Staaij has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u90	I do have another question, indeed, about vulnerable elderly people at home who are not yet going to a nursing home. This summer I saw a message from Zorginstituut Nederland, which indicated in the start note that there is still a lot wrong when it comes to sustainable funding and that sometimes there is also a wrong picture of what legislation and regulation would mean. In addition to the programmes already in place, are the signals from the start note being quickly picked up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u91	Yeah, the Healthcare Institute did put that in the picture. It is about the financing and the possibilities of home care, the arrangements of home care. That is just really part of all the actions that are going on in the framework of the Langer Home programme. So that's what we're getting into. In addition, of course, there will be a new funding model for community care. So that too is in full swing. I believe that the new financing model would be there in the first half of next year. That is what we are going to talk about. Of course, that has to do with this, because that is precisely one of the observations when it comes to the long-term, sustainable funding. That is certainly what we are working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u92	I assume that this also applies to the information aspect. I notice that we often talk about bottlenecks in the system, but sometimes it turns out that something can be done, but that there is far too little awareness of these possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u93	That's absolutely true. We talk too often about bottlenecks in the system. Usually, the same system offers endless possibilities. So that's absolutely true. Only, to have the knowledge that there is much more possible than you initially thought, that doesn't happen automatically. We will indeed have to help to make that known. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u94	I would also like to talk about the right to challenge. The Minister's written reply talks about a number of initiatives that are already possible under the Long-Term Care Act. What I find difficult is that within the Wmo it is really a legal right, while within the Wlz that is not the case. This means that within the Wlz it mainly concerns new initiatives, rather than what is already happening. Wouldn't it be useful, for example, to explore what a right to challenge within the Wlz framework could mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u95	I believe that my predecessor has already been working on the question of what would be possible. This eventually led to the anchoring of the right to challenge in the Wmo. In the Wlz the pgb is actually also a kind of right to challenge avant la lettre. It may be a slightly less trendy term, but you can do it incredibly much. That's one. Secondly, if you compare the Wlz with the Wmo, the Wlz is of course really different in nature. There are much heavier demands on the quality of care and an inspection that needs to be monitored. So imagine that in the context of a right to challenge, a club of residents in a neighborhood comes up with the idea of taking over a nursing home location. Of course, that is also a bit creepy, because what does that mean for the depreciation of the real estate? What does that then mean for the supervision of the inspection? What does it mean for the responsibility for the quality of care? So who's the person to talk to? These are all guarantees that are now very tightly regulated in the Wkkgz. They are strictly regulated in the Wlz and in the supervisory laws. How do you do that in the context of a right to challenge?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u96	The Minister immediately gives an example of the extreme spectrum, of taking over an entire location. You can see that there are more and more intermediate forms in which the neighborhood and the nursing home are already working together. I think there might be parts there that you think are: hey, wouldn't that be a possibility that, for example, there would be a little more participation? So a study that shows what can and cannot be done within the Wlz seems to me to be very useful, mainly because you involve society better. I'd like to give that to you anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u97	I'd be happy to investigate what's possible. Well, let me give you the next win warning. A legal anchoring in the Wmo will only gain meaning through a municipal regulation, at the time when a municipality also makes this possible in the procurement, for example. Where that can be quite legally anchored in the Wmo, this will be accompanied by a few more objections in the Wlz. At the same time, I say with Mr Van der Staaij: there are so many possibilities within the Long-Term Care Act. And by the way, also within the Health Insurance Act. The system we have in the Netherlands is at most a bit complicated, but there can be anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u98	I would like to return to the previous point. It's a complicated matter, so I had to get through what the Minister is saying about it. The Minister indicated that it is a good thing that people who work in a nursing home, not only the specialist elderly medicine but also other caregivers, are already familiar at home with the people who are going to make the transition to the nursing home in the not too long term. That's what the Minister said. But does the Minister agree with me that this acquaintance is more than just a chat, like, "Oh, who are you?"', But is it important to use the expertise of people who work in the nursing home in the final phase that people still live at home before they make the switch? I'm not saying they have to take over the work of community nursing. I say it's very desirable...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u99	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u100	Well, I have another explanation, Mr. Chairman. I mean that it is very desirable that the community care should be able to talk to those people who work in the nursing home, to also think about the best care in those last weeks at home. That's more than just getting acquainted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u101	I very much agree. You had me at hello, I'd actually like to say. I said this in the direction of Mrs Hermans, because she actually asked this question. It's exactly what it is. Getting acquainted is one cup of coffee, you might say, but that's very thin. That happens, of course, but it is very thin. It's about getting to know people; that's something else. You also need to get to know what people need when it comes to personal care. What's someone's life history? What does the treatment look like now? Is there any misunderstood behavior? What's it gonna take? What does Mr. or Mrs. really do? What kind of care does it really take? If the knowledge and expertise of the neighborhood nurse and the knowledge and expertise of the nurse from a nursing home meet, then things are going well. Then it's smooth. I think that's what you want. That's what I want. This is happening very slowly. I think a lot of parties think this is important and would like to do so. If a lot of people think it's a good idea, why doesn't it happen more often or more? Apparently, there could be obstacles. They are there in any case when it is actually about providing care, but so you say. That's not what you're talking about either. But then, of course, there are these obstacles. That also makes sense...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u102	I think you agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u103	...but real transfer must be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u104	I would ask the Minister to continue his speech. I hope he's already at the end of his block about everything that affects the position of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u105	Well, I have another amendment. That is the amendment tabled by Mr Slootweg and Mr Hermans on long-term care and support. That is actually a bit the counterpart of the amendment on disability care. This concerns long-term care. It is about the organisation of the innovation challenges in nursing care. We did, but it was actually done. This amendment says that you must continue to do so and you must also involve more nursing homes. I would also like to leave the judgement to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u106	It concerns the amendment in respect of item No. 19. The Court of Justice shall decide on this matter. Next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u107	I go to a number of questions that have been asked by the various parties. I've got a few more ahead of me. The first question I would like to put orally is the question: are you prepared to introduce a single cost-covering rate for nursing home care? It is not the first time Mrs Agema has raised this idea. I would like to explain why I am not enthusiastic about this. There must be reasonable cost-covering rates for nursing home care. It is up to the NZa to establish that. So when it comes to a cost-covering rate, the answer is, of course, yes. But one rate for the entire nursing home care would not do justice to its complexity. Last year the NZa consulted the healthcare field and concluded that the current funding through variouszzp's has a clear added value. This also helps to finance the variety of clients in institutions in a good way. I think it's best to keep the current variety inzzp's. That is why I do not wish to accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u108	That's not the question I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u109	Perhaps then you could ask me the question you did ask. Then I can see if I can answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u110	The question was about the application of malus regulations and about all kinds of administrative burdens around the tariff. I didn't talk about onezzp this time, merging all the care packages. I would still think that is a very good idea, but I have talked about all the red tape surrounding the rate of all the differentzzp's.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u111	Yeah, well, then I didn't hear your question right. I thought I had heard this and had heard it before, which is why I am giving this reaction. The rate must not only be cost-effective, but must also meet what is the question of care. An institution must therefore be able to meet that rate. An indication is needed before azzp can be determined. We have often had the debate on whether or not we can achieve onezzp. That's not what this was about. We have also often had the debate in the vein of: do you have to re-indicate all the time? That is, of course, not the case. A number of times people go from a lower zzp to a higher zzp, but of course it's not that you check out all those zzp's. So I honestly think that there is not as much else as possible. What could be speeded up, at most, is what I come back to in the direction of your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u112	This is not really the question I asked. I asked this question. At some point, you're gonna have that fare. It is a pity that this rate has not been reviewed in the care and care sector. But then you have that fare and then there is a complete administrative burden towards the health offices, which, for example, apply a malus scheme: first standard 3% off. At the other standard 8% off. Then they have to renegotiate a few percent and produce a lot of evidence. All the answers given by the Minister are answers to questions I have not asked. I said, "Stop the malus scheme, for example." Stop with all the paperwork coming in. First 8% off, then another percent off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u113	I think your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u114	This is just the purchasing process. This is the procurement process between health offices and nursing homes. If there is room for reducing the administrative burden, it must certainly be used. However, the examples mentioned by Mrs Agema are not necessarily the sources of many administrative burdens. Accountability, of course, is. Purchasing procedures may in any case be administratively burdensome. That is why we are having this conversation with health offices and nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u115	So I have flown on all these different indications, for example for the Wlz, the nursing homes. For a new, higherzzp you have to go through that whole indication circus again and again. That is already a big administrative burden. In addition, institutions must be able to scrape per cent because they are subject to a malus regime. Then the Minister can say 'that is a perfectly normal procurement process', but that, in his view, is perfectly normal, creates a huge administrative burden. I can see again that the Minister has his mouth full of the rules and wants to have an hour of responsibility, but always doesn't care at home when it comes to this sort of thing. Just get rid of the malus scheme!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u116	What I am saying is that purchasing can indeed lead to administrative burdens. That is exactly why we are looking with care offices and with ActiZ to see how we can minimise the administrative burden of purchasing. That is something other than abolishing a malus regime. What is normal about the purchasing process is that the NZa sets maximum rates. So it makes sense that not all institutions are at that maximum. That is not so much the administrative burden. The most administratively burdensome are accountability agreements which subsequently result from that procurement. Where less can be done and where health offices can do less, they will be prepared to do so. That's exactly the conversation I'm having with ActiZ and the health offices.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u117	I suggest that the Minister continue his speech. I think it's gonna be a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u118	Actually, no, Mr. Chairman. I actually just wanted to conclude...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u119	You've just concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u120	... that if the Minister intends to bring the administration back significantly, he will have to come to terms at some point. He cannot just point to the institutions themselves and say that a lot of rules are caused by the institutions themselves. At some point, he's gonna have to get over it sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u121	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u122	If we make proposals here every time to abolish large blocks of administration and it is always 'no', then he does not get his promise to take an hour off for all employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u123	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u124	Let me repeat to Mrs Agema that we are accountable twice a year for the programme (Ont) Regulal de Zorg. There are a number of measures in this programme. The discussion with healthcare offices and care institutions on how to simplify this procurement is part of that. So I'm going to give you back the outcome of that conversation in full precision. Then it is up to you to decide whether you think that's good enough. Mr. Chairman. This was a nice little bridge, because I'm going to continue with a question that GroenLinks has asked about purchasing. I come to Mrs Sazias in a moment to talk about procurement and administrative burdens, but Mrs Ellemeet also mentioned this as an important objection. You did not just mention the administrative burden, because you mentioned, Mrs Ellemeet, many more objections to European public procurement. I think we have discussed it quite extensively in the previous AO, but I very much agree that we need to do everything we can to support municipalities much better. One municipality is really better at it than the other. At the same time, we also see that European procurement law and the principles on which it is based are, on a number of points, just really sanding what we have to find important in the care sector. That is why I have not only set up a whole support programme with PIANOo and the VNG towards the municipalities, but also entered into a discussion with Europe to see what scope is to be found within the European procurement rules. I continue to look forward to the initiative law you have announced, because it seems to me very exciting to extend a European directive by means of a Dutch law. That sounds very exciting to me! I have already told you, Mrs Ellemeet, that I will be behind the typewriter a number of nights if I can, because then I have some ideas. But I think it's very difficult to shape that legally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u125	I would like to keep the Minister in suspense for a moment, but I will not do so for too long, because I understand that the Minister is looking forward to our proposal. It is, of course, about the implementation of the directive and the question of what scope there is. Are these calls for tenders in the care sector within the spirit of the directive? In my view, there was another debate in Europe on procurement two weeks ago and it was said that there was no intention of doing anything about that directive at all for the time being. I think that is why we have to take the initiative here in the Netherlands. Well, I promise the Minister he'll see the proposals before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u126	I wish it were the end of the year, Mr President! Then I'll continue with a question the CDA has asked about residents' initiatives. I attach great importance to these residents' initiatives. There is the Netherlands club Take care of each other, where all kinds of district initiatives and residents' initiatives are included. They sometimes do really beautiful things in the field of care, informal care and the combination of informal care and formal care. They have written an advice in my direction with a number of recommendations. I still have to respond to that. Your idea is that your municipalities could support a little more in dealing with residents' initiatives. I would actually like to talk to that club to see what support is needed, because to start with all the municipalities that support seems to me quite a lot of work. But maybe with that dome, I'll take care of the Netherlands before each other can start that conversation. Perhaps that responds to the question you have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u127	I think it will be a whole end for me if it could take care of each other at that dome Netherlands. However, I do notice that, since I brought this out, the number of examples of municipalities dealing with it in a somewhat strange way have grown. This knowledge needs to be strengthened in municipalities, because there are also things that really do not need to be, but are more of an interpretation. So I'm also looking for something to help municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u128	Perhaps it should be a conversation with both that dome and the VNG, to see what support needs residents' initiatives themselves and what support needs municipalities have. Maybe I can combine that. Maybe that's in line with your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u129	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u130	Then I'll continue with a question from the SP. What does the Minister think about the need for older people to go to court to enforce care? First of all, I agree that there is a legalization of care. Having to go to court frequently to get the care you need, is very undesirable, for everyone actually. It's not necessary either. If you're just talking to each other, there's always a good way out. It is true that, in particular, there was less case law just after decentralisation. There was one under the old law, but under the new Wmo there was still insufficient case law. Especially in the first year, you noticed that there have been quite a few lawsuits. There were 2,200 in 2015, which we checked with the Justice Council. You can see that in 2016, it dropped to 1,900. And in 2017, it was 1,200. I wouldn't know for this year. We will not hear that again until next year, but with Mr Hijink I think it is a good sign if it is a trend down. If it did go up, you'd have something to worry about. Then I will go to Mrs Bergkamp, who has made an amendment on forensic medical care and support. I would like to say a few things about that. First, I'd like to put it in context. In fact, the amendment is a special one on an earlier proposal by Mrs Bergkamp herself, by motion entrusted to the cabinet, I believe last year, to have at the GGD Goor, with the involvement of the GGD Amsterdam, strengthened the forensic medical expertise and the way in which it could be secured in the ten regions. I am committed to these ten regions, because those are the police regions. This is appropriate for the justice partners that have to operate in it. There have been agreements made about when who's on the move. For example, when the NFI is switched on, when a doctor other than that of the NFI is turned on. The aim is actually to avoid as much as possible that the investigation of victims should double, so as not to delay in criminal proceedings, not to miss any trace and to provide children with the necessary medical care in good time, truly integral, across the areas of care and punishment. Those agreements are set out in the Handlehandeling Collaboration in criminal child abuse. It is important to implement this hand-out and to establish quality standards. Mrs Bergkamp states that, in addition to the agreements that have been made, there is also a need for specific, specialised expertise from the GGD Amsterdam, which is now available there. I'm sure I'm open to that. A number of conditions are crucial, namely that the Public Prosecutor, the police and the NFI, Safe Home and the Children's Protection Board are well involved in that project and that the hand-out that has been developed is really the starting point. That the starting point is that an investigation always has to take place once and so on. I just mentioned that. In particular, it is with all the parties that the quality requirements that are needed that they actually come about. They must, of course, be useful for possible criminal proceedings. Of course, that's the most important thing. All these locations have to comply with that. I read the amendment in such a way that the injury chamber must at least meet those conditions. You want us to pay for the injury room and see if a second location can be opened and maybe even four. If I may read your amendment in this way, I would like to leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u131	I know what the Minister's saying. It must meet a number of conditions. My motivation for tabling this amendment is that we simply see it too little when there is abuse, injury. The beauty of the injury room in Amsterdam is that an independent specialist forensic doctor looks at vulnerable people who cannot express themselves in the event of possible abuse. I understand the terms, but I would like to say one more thing about that. The Latvian office Plus in Amsterdam now works in such a way that there can be several clients. It can be safe at home, but also an elderly doctor from a nursing home or in some cases the police. Of course, different quality requirements are also included in the different target groups. I think it is important to add that. It's not a single sausage. They work for different clients and there are different quality conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u132	I can imagine. What is important is that the forensic-medical investigation should be able to be properly used in criminal proceedings. That means that in particular the Public Prosecutor's Office on the front should be able to take a good look. What should this forensic-medical examination look like in order to secure or record the injury found in such a way that it can be used later in criminal proceedings? That's important. Then the content of the terms. I think that the various parties such as the Children's Protection Board, Safe Home, the State's Attorney's Office and the police should get out of there together. I really think that's a debate for professionals. I would like to emphasise the background to the usefulness of information and observations in criminal proceedings, because this is of course important for the Public Prosecutor's Office. The D.A.'s office hasn't been working very hard on the manual on how to deal with criminal child abuse or, broader than that, criminal assault. Securing tracks, securing evidence shouldn't snow under.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u133	I can also imagine, with the nuance that you can have different clients. I would ask the Minister to state in his motivation that parties come together. It's a very diverse landscape. People all look at it in their own way. The motivation is to recognize abuse. Sometimes that is not the case, and that is also important. I hope that the Minister will at least feel the motivation to sit down with all the stakeholders to really see how they can get out of it. I think it would be a terrible shame if we were to get bogged down in all kinds of self-movement frameworks. I'd say that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u134	Clear, clear. I share that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u135	That is the point of the amendment. 21 members Bergkamp and Slootweg judgment Chamber. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u136	Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question from the PvdA. It observes that there is insufficient attention to pay and workload in the Work in Care Action Programme. Mr Kerstens said that these are the main concerns he hears from the field. I'll share that with him. That's what we hear. A few things about that. If it actually succeeds in seducing more people to work in care, it will of course help with the workload. If we actually manage to reduce the number of rules, it will, of course, help with the workload. That is what we are working on in a very concrete way. When it comes to salaries, I'd like to be very precise. Under the block of affordability I have outlined the astronomical amounts. In the 5 billion extra available for care next year, 1.7 billion is in wage development, in additional wage space. What we actually do in the care sector is to make available to care, each time the wage developments in the market, so that care can undergo a comparable wage development. For example, this has led to the following. Just take a look at the neighborhood nurse's salary. I mentioned this last week in the debate. There you can see a good collective agreement where employers have used the space they simply have to stimulate that salary development: plus 4% on 1 October. If you look at how that has happened in recent years and you would just add up for a moment since 2008, the start of the crisis, how the salary development has been with the nurses and how wage developments have been in the market, you can see that wage developments have been cumulatively higher among nurses: about 25% compared to 18% in the market. Of course, inflation is included. I'm just saying it's our job to encourage good employership. Employers in care are given the space and space to obtain sufficient good collective agreements within the budget available to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u137	I thank the Minister for this explanation. He mentions the example of the nurses. Now there are also groups in care who are lagging behind. Does the Minister agree with me that if you now make enough money available to allow wages for those care groups to develop on the market in the coming years, so that they can rise as quickly or as slowly as in other sectors, before those groups do not catch up and therefore the care becomes more attractive to those groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u138	Then you must be more precise in what you mean by a delay. The particular thing about care is precisely that it is mainly the care and none of the other public sectors that, through the oval covenant that we have, where the development of working conditions is made available to employers in the care sector, is actually always followed by market developments. For example, I have said that in recent years, in the crisis, you will see, for example, in the vvt sector, that wage developments have gone by 25% where they have gone by 18% in the market. This actually applies to all sectors of care, perhaps with the exception of the more academic component. There may be a different arrangement there, but it actually applies to all sectors of care. I therefore believe that as we have set it up, namely with the indexation offered annually to employers, we actually have the guarantee that we will avoid what you say, namely that you are falling behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u139	Does the Minister actually say that we do not disagree with each other? If you ask people in care or people who might want to work in care, what are the obstacles to going to work in care or what are the reasons for leaving that care early and who say that's what's going to happen? I'm just talking to people after the low salaries and the high workload, that when it comes to those low salaries, people are wrong and that they're actually good off with their salary if you sell it against those in all the other sectors, for example, where they look after leaving school after graduation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u140	Let me put it another way, otherwise we'll have a debate on what you think is enough. We are not going to have the conversation that should actually be held, and that is fortunately also being held, between employers and employees about what is an adequate salary, an adequate salary development. That really belongs at the collective bargaining table. I think we should say to each other that we have to do our job as a government to enable healthcare workers to monitor market developments in an adequate way. We see that, fortunately, employers and employees also make use of this space and opportunities. So our job is to make good employership possible. That's actually our role. I think perhaps one more observation that comes close to what Mr Kerstens is asking us to say that we are sometimes very negative about the salaries in healthcare. I believe so, especially when compared to other sectors. I certainly will not say that they are excessive, certainly not, but I do think they can cope very well with the comparison with other public sectors. I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u141	Finalizing, Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u142	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. I think school leavers not only look at other sectors in the public sector, but they just look broad. When people leave care, they also leave the public sector regularly. I think it is worth thinking about, rather than referring to the Minister's reply, that there is apparently such a difference between the Minister and a lot of people, because it really is in the care of number one, so to speak, who think that they really are behind when it comes to salary development. I'm worried about that big difference in perception.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u143	In fact, we had part of the debate on this last week. That's when I said a few things. First of all, Mrs Agema asked for a look at what is actually the reason for leaving care. Later on, this question became a motion and an amended motion, which I believe has also been adopted. That's good, we're gonna investigate, I said, because you can learn from that. The second point I mentioned was about the motivation of the people in the care. People rarely go to work for a living in health care. People choose care for another reason. And of course, the story that the salary should actually be higher, I also hear from the people who work in care. But I hear people who are going to work in healthcare also say: hey, that salary is higher than I thought, I didn't expect. That's what people from "the market" are saying. So "the market" is also a fairly ambiguous concept when talking about what is earned in the market. I was just saying that if you sell the salary development in the market in recent years against that in care, you can see that the salary development in many sectors of care has actually done better than that in the market. Hence the amazement with which some people react who step into care from outside and when they see what is earned in care. In short, I think it's just good to paint a very nuanced picture of that. Mr Dik-Faber's amendment concerns the... Yeah, well, all of a sudden I'm starting to hesitate, because what was Mrs Bergkamp telling me? It's called Fiom KID DNA Database for donor children. In my view, that is what the amendment says, at least in the version I have. So let me stick to Mrs Dik-Faber's wording, without going into the comments and considerations made by Mrs Bergkamp. I leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber. We have argued many times about this in many AO. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. Another question from Mrs Dik-Faber was about experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u144	First of all, I say that it was just about the amendment to item No. 22. That is the new number of the Dik-Faber amendment. That amendment has therefore just been judged by the Chamber. Mrs Bergkamp has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Following yesterday's debate, I also received a message from the so-called distance parents, distance children. They say: in the case of Dutch adoption, we would also like to be helped by the government. I find that a difficult discussion, because this is about another group. But I think it is valuable to ask the Minister the same question. What does the Minister think of you having a group of people in the Netherlands who, sometimes forced by the spirit of time, have given up their child and who say: there is a need here too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u146	Now I'm gonna dig real hard in my memory. I believe that this discussion also takes place in the Ministry of Justice. I think Mr Dekker is working on this. Can I hold on to Mrs Bergkamp's question and come back to it in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u147	Fine. Minister, I think you are now working on separate questions from political groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u148	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u149	Can you tell me how much time you need? After all, we would like to start the dinner break in not too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u150	I understand that my speech also makes you hungry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u151	Yeah, you're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u152	And then we're gonna talk about nutrition like that. Can you check it out? I have another question or five or six.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u153	Well, let's keep going. I hope you'll be ready at 7:45.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u154	Yeah, easy. I shall begin with a question from Mrs Dik-Faber. She's talking about psychiatry, about people who have been "treated out" in psychiatry. What is there to do about a more palliative approach? She's asking me if I'm willing to investigate. In the written reply I wrote that there is already a lot going on in this area. In ZonMw's programme, a lot of attention is already paid to the target group psychiatry. There are several projects currently under way. But, in addition to the written answer, I say that it is mainly projects that deal with the combination of a psychiatric and a somatic disorder. Only treated psychiatric patients with no additional somatic disorder are insufficiently represented. How to shape that palliative approach exactly if there is no somatic disorder at stake is, frankly, still the question. I really need to talk to parties about how that might look. But if the question is whether I would be willing to do so, then the answer is: yes, I am willing to see if we can fit it into the programme of Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u155	I think this is a very nice commitment from the Minister. It is true that I am concerned with the group of psychiatric patients who do not have somatic disease and who therefore have a long period of life ahead of them in principle. The call is broad, also from the profession, so very nice if the minister wants to get to work on it and see if he can implement it in ongoing programmes. When does he intend to inform us more about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u156	I don't know exactly how we should do that, but let me say that first quarter should work. I don't have a hook to put that in another letter, so let me say: first quarter 2019. I say that on my own authority; I hope it is all possible. Then there is another question from Mrs Dik-Faber, namely to better embed lactation care in the system of youth health care. Support for breast-feeding is simply one of the tasks of maternity care, which is simply ensured in the basic package of the Health Insurance Act. Following maternity care, care for newborns is transferred to youth health care within a maximum of ten days. If there are any questions about breast-feeding, youth health care can work with them. Many youth health care organisations employ breastfeeding experts, but we also know that little use is actually made of them. So we are doing research on this, among other things, to determine the prevalence of breast-feeding properly. I am also curious to hear the answer to Mrs Dik-Faber's question: how is it that at the moment the breastfeeding experts of youth health care are not being sufficiently exploited? Does this indeed have to do with insufficient embedding or lack of awareness of it? That's the question. So I'd like to go out with Mrs. Dik-Faber's question. I'll see if I can investigate that and discuss these outcomes with the Dutch Youth Health Centre and the jgz organisations. Then I am with the new MP Akerboom, who gave her maiden speech here and indeed came back to a proposal from the Animal Party that we discussed a year ago. It's about bringing pets to a nursing home. For a lot of elderly people, especially elderly people who are suffering from loneliness, that is really very important. And yet it is very difficult to fit in in some nursing homes, because of course there is a lot involved when someone is not really mobile anymore but has a dog that has to be walked every day. How do you do that? Then how do you arrange it? May I ask staff to add that to the list? To mention a very practical conversation that is of course conducted in a nursing home. We have discussed this several times with the industry organisation. The industry organisation indicates that there is also enthusiasm and that there are also a lot of practical problems at an individual location. Some institutions simply fail to do so. But I think it is important to discuss this further with them, so I hope to be able to return to you at some point with one of the progress reports on Home in the Nursing Home. Mrs Sazias asked about the problems of nutrition in the elderly. I recognize these problems. We discussed them, for example when it comes to the food supply. At that time, you yourself, as well as others, emphasized it. I would like to mention a number of things that we are doing about it. We included those actions in the Langer Home program. To improve, for example, the quality of meals, so it is still separate from the agreements we have discussed in the AO on the provision of meals, because we are just going to work on them and I will link them back to the Food Centre next year to publish a directive on meals for the elderly. It is developed together with providers, users and experts. The Food Centre will also support the implementation of this Directive with home-based food service providers. I think that could be a very concrete step in strengthening it. When it comes to bringing people out of social isolation in an easily accessible way, food is, of course, a very important factor. You mentioned the community centers. It's mostly municipal policy, so I can't say much about it from this place. Of course, they're not all gone. Municipalities have sometimes had to cut back on it, that's the way it is. At the same time, you see new initiatives coming back. Because they're not just community centers, they're also restaurants, living rooms and businesses. It'll come back in other varieties. Food is incredibly important. I encourage all these initiatives within the framework of One against loneliness. Then you had the question of how much the tender costs and how much is actually leaking out. Two things. I would be very curious to hear the answer. At the same time, I'm not going to tarnish it, because that's such an incredible job! That would mean that I would have to check with every municipality "how many people are in the process of making a tender?" And then I have to ask suppliers: how many people are there with you doing calls for tenders? Then there are thousands of suppliers and 383 municipalities. I guess I'll need a lot of monks to do the job. Then there's more money leaking out of the care, so let's not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u157	I think the Minister himself has already indicated how that is easy to do. You have purchasers in specific areas. Contracting on large infrastructure projects or office furniture is really something quite different from contracting within the care. You don't convince me by saying that you can't do it or let it do it. I don't expect you to do it yourself. So make a round around the municipalities to ask: how much money do you spend on procurement within the care? I don't think that round's that hard to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u158	I think that Mrs Sazias and I will at least agree on the objective that you should want to pursue with the call for tenders in the care sector, namely to reduce the time and money we spend on it. This means that I would be better able to use the people I could possibly use for that research to see if we can make the tender less bureaucratic. So that's what we're doing. We have model contracts, we have all kinds of support for municipalities to help them simplify the procurement process. We are taking a number of legal measures, and that law still needs to be dealt with in order to agree data standards on procurement. In short, we are doing a great deal to ensure that we reduce administrative burdens together. I know it's too much, I don't need to investigate any further. I know it's too much, and it has to go down. So let us please devote our energy to getting the bureaucratic burden down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u159	My question was twofold, on the one hand, to ensure that energy goes down, but also because we want to have an insight into where these care costs are leaking. This is part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u160	I'm going to make sure that as little as possible leaks away and that where it leaks, the tap is turned off. That is my most important task, I think. Mr. President, I'm going to the Stately Reformed Party. Mr Van der Staaij asked a question about a critical article by a former member of the Euthanasia Review Committee, Mrs Van Baarsen, on the transparency of testing practice, in order to describe it in this way. Do I not think that is worrying and am I prepared to take measures to organise supervision or actually allow scrutiny in order to make euthanasia practice more transparent, for example by having a committee meeting recorded and allowing external control? I would like to mention a number of things. One. I have, of course, checked this signal with the chairman of the Euthanasia Regional Review Committees, Mr Kohnstamm. He doesn't recognize himself in this signal. He also says he doesn't hear this signal from other ethicists involved in the RTEs. Two, they've revised their euthanasia code. That actually describes how the RTEs interpret the legal requirements. That is a very transparent document. Three: the Committees of Inquiry have set up a working group on justification, which is looking at how more insight can be made, including for the outside world, how committees have come to their judgements. This is done because it is important to find out how these judgments are made. Four: the judgments on which the Committee has a discussion are published on the RTE website. This is also important for transparency. Five: this year an internal reflection chamber has been established that can also look at complex questions emerging from a euthanasia case. Six: there is actually already external control of the results of the RTE judgements. After all, the Public Prosecutor's Office checks whether a careless judgment is also open to criminal prosecution. The IGJ shall then assess whether that is subject to disciplinary action. Even careful cases can be reviewed by the Public Prosecutor's Office. In short, I share the need and the will to work further and to strengthen transparency on the establishment of the RTE. That's important for the way we look at euthanasia. On the contrary, I think it is very careful, given the fact that every case is really weighed. I do not know whether anything like the Minutes will really add anything to transparency, except a lot of paper. So I am actually attached to the path that has been taken. I really think it's careful. Then there is the signal given by Mr Van der Staaij on the budget ceilings for palliative care. I checked with the health insurance companies. The point isn't very well recognized. They indicate that they do not apply a budget ceiling or that they deal with it very flexibly. Of course, sufficient capacity has been contracted in a region, but there is no room for a specific institution. It's possible. I have asked the NZa to monitor the availability of sufficient capacity in the near future. In addition, insurers indicate that diversity is taken into account, in order to meet the patient's freedom of choice. Of course, this also takes account of efficiency. It could be that way, therefore, if I do not dare to enter from this point in mind, that, for example, the conversation between the health insurance provider and the institution is about the question "is this form of care not very expensive compared to other providers?" It remains the responsibility of a health insurer to have that discussion with an institution about efficiency. But in general, the signal that there are budget ceilings on palliative care is not recognised. But again, I'm holding the finger on the wrist through the NZa. Mr President, I think I would have had one more question, namely Mr Kuzu's question of whether I would be prepared to give an impetus to the care of the family with an exemption from the donation or inheritance tax or some kind of voluntary exemption. I really think it's a very nice idea. The point is that this has already been examined in detail before and that this is hardly possible for tax purposes. There is no control over it, or you have to organize something very bureaucratic. That is also the reason why the family care compliment as it existed disappeared and that municipalities themselves seek a form of appreciation for carers. A tax design of such a concession is simply not feasible, because it is not possible to give a precise and verifiable definition of being a caregiver. Mr President, for a quarter to eight o'clock, more than a quarter to eight o'clock, I should like to say that I shall end the first-term answer on my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u161	Mrs. Dik-Faber has one last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u162	Mr President, if I may, two more, because two questions have been answered in writing and I have a supplementary question to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u163	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u164	The first question is about the Spanish IVF clinic. The Minister replied that he awaits the ruling of the Advertising Code Commission. I think that's very wise. But that clinic also recruits parents in the Netherlands. I'm getting signals that this takes place in hotels or other locations, where parents aren't informed about all the ins and outs either. I find that worrying, because as a parent you want to make a good choice and you need to get honest information. Isn't there some form of inspection monitoring possible? Or is there any way we can investigate that? You can't stop it, we already know that from answers to Parliamentary questions from the Labour Party, but when it happens, can we make it meet certain criteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u165	Let's think out loud. That sounds complicated to me. Advertising expressions are tested against the law by the Advertising Code Commission. When it comes to meetings and what is said there, you should almost be there to assess it. Its design is extremely complicated. I think it is undesirable, I should have started the answer with that, but how could you resist that from a government or through supervision, I don't see that very much for myself, frankly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u166	And your second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u167	I think we're both gonna chew it. My second question is about the mental caregivers. The Minister replied that the professional association FGVZ has a separate national Jewish sector. I'm very happy about that. Jewish spiritual caregivers are also involved. Now there is a group that focuses specifically on the Orthodox Jewish community. Has he also been given a nice place within the new structure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u168	This is way beyond my knowledge, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u169	I think that's gonna be the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u170	I will look into this and come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u171	In the written reply, the Minister also addressed my question on the care of undocumented women.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u172	Yeah, part of it. It was a co-production of the Secretary of State and myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u173	In your reply, you had indicated that, if necessary, the women could participate in the program Now Not Pregnant. That is easy to say, but the problem is, of course, that these women are not easily reached. What's the Minister gonna do about it? How is he going to ensure that these women are actually reached so that they can participate in this approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u174	The Probable Start program is a wide program, which deals with the improvement of the perinatal chain. There are many projects to make birth care more compatible with youth health care and to start supporting families that need additional support much earlier. There are a lot of projects in there and there is no limit to who is or is not allowed to participate. Undocumented women can also be part of this, not as a category or group, but if such support is needed, it can be provided. Two: when it comes to sustainable contraception, that is one of the projects in the program Now Not Pregnant. It is about finding a place, a strange word, perhaps, but I mean where the professional world, for example the midwife or the abortion clinic, comes into contact with women who need support on this point. For example, they are uninsured or for any other reason not willing or able to use contraception in a sustainable way. In a compelling way one then starts the conversation with the mother, because it is often in this case, whether it would be wise to give birth at this stage of her life; how do you see that in front of you and if you don't see that very well, shouldn't we help you to choose sustainable contraception? Then the question arises: who pays for it? For this purpose, municipalities each set up their own options. I myself have been involved in this as alderman of Rotterdam. This is not about large sums, but it is very good to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u175	Finally, Mrs Ellemeet
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u176	The minister says he's looking for organizations that are in contact with these women. This is particularly difficult for this group, because they often do not dare to approach the formal bodies. The organization Doctors of the World is in contact with these undocumented women. Could I also ask the Minister to contact the World Doctors organisation to see how these undocumented women can be involved in this programme, if that is desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u177	I think that's a very good idea. So it's not even so much about formal care organisations. In fact, it is the art of every municipality or region where you implement this project that the national GGD is working hard to make that project take root anywhere in the country, to think of where you could meet the people who depend on this project. So I'd like to contact this foundation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u178	Finally, before dinner break, Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u179	I'll come back to one of the Minister's first cubes. My question concerns the indication and frustration and bureaucracy that parents of children can face with a serious multiple limitation. I thank the Minister for his commitment to discuss this with municipalities. I have two brief questions to ask. One: when will we hear what that conversation has resulted? Two: would he also like to involve the VNG in that conversation, as well as the CIZ? Because I can imagine that some of those parents have something to do with the CIZ, which may have rejected an application. There is already so much information about the situation and concern of such a child known, that a lot of work matters, if the transfer of the CIZ back to a municipality is well supervised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u180	I need to think. About the design of that conversation: that takes place primarily with the municipalities, when it comes to whether you could indicate more frequently on a multiannual basis. That's one. Two is: a number of municipalities refer too quickly, sometimes unintentionally, I think, to the CIZ because it is believed that a Wlz indication is possible. If the CIZ then rejects it, it is very doubtful whether that leads to a warm transfer back to the municipality. It can also become a locker-to-the-wall experience. So I think I'm gonna need the municipalities and the CIZ anyway. In addition, anyone who can help us to get those observations exactly should be, for example, Each one should be, or the VNG should do the same. At first I would think of the CIZ and the municipalities. Can I come back to this in the first quarter of 2019? There is nodding by the officials of my department.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u181	I agree that these are two different problems, but they can sometimes have something to do with each other. I want to prevent people from being sent back to the congregation and ending up in a repeat circus. That's why I paired them up, but I realize they're two separate issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u182	Good. I'm suspending the meeting. We're gonna have dinner, and we've got 45 minutes for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u183	We will continue with the discussion of the VWS budget. We need the second speaker in the first term of office. The Minister for Medical Care has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's what I want to do. I would like to make an introduction very briefly. It's made up of two cubes. One block is the main line agreements and the other is transparency in the care sector. In addition, I would like to pass on a number of points made by several speakers, choosing not to deal with all the issues. It has all been dealt with in writing. However, I will deal with a number of issues which have been raised by several speakers. Mr. Chairman. First of all, a brief report on two working visits in the last period. I was with a doctor in the south of the country. That was a general practitioner like me who knew a little from my childhood. Originally there was a single working GP, and also probably the wife of the GP who ran the pharmacy. The building was still there. I believe that we were now two general practitioners at that location, but by now the general practitioner was no longer alone. He had several assistants, he had different practitioners and he also had several colleagues. I believe they were there with three GPs. So there was a group of a man or ten on that job visit. And what was special was that a representative of the insurers, a representative of the hospital and a representative of the municipality were also invited. That's what the GP said was important. He said, "I have an interest in having the hospital close so that I can easily make the contacts." On the other hand, he thought it was very important that he had near the church. He said that patients who come here may sometimes have pain in their stomachs. It may be that a medical problem is at the root of this, but it may also be that it is a social problem. Maybe someone is in debt, and then they shouldn't be with the GP, but with the Department of Debt Assistance of the municipality. Another work visit was at the Zuyderland hospital, also in the south of the country. There orthopedists told me that they had set up a, as they called it, one-and-a-half-line center, so say a center between the GP and the hospital. Those orthopedics were helping people with joint problems. It was in the vicinity of the citizen. The burger liked it. It was outside the hospital, and that was close. And it was also a learning experience, because both a general practitioner and a specialist and a nurse came together. So people were helped there quickly and well. It was actually a form of multidiscipline. The great thing about these two examples is that both healthcare providers are looking for the right care in the right place. They're actually trying to figure out what's in their column, in the GP column or the hospital column. But also: where can we get it from that column? Where can it go to the one and a half line in this example? There are also examples where you say: you shouldn't be in the medical column, but you should take care of it somewhere else. Then you can say: that might be in the zeroth line. Mr. Chairman. I say this as an introduction to the theme that I think is important for now and for the years to come: the right care in the right place. You need to see where you can best organize the care. That is good for the patient, that is good for the quality of care and that is also good for the affordability of care. This is the movement that the three of us have tried to capture in the main line agreements that we have concluded over the past period. For me, the main line agreement with the general practitioners and the main line agreement with the medical-specialist care are the most important. I don't want to give the impression that all care should be taken from the hospital. That's not gonna happen, but it's about the right care in the right place. The right care in the right place can mean that it goes from the second line to the first line, but also that it goes from the second line to the one and a half line or from the second line to the zero line. Maybe sometimes it can go from the second line to the third line. The Princess Máxima Centre is a fantastic example of highly qualified care. Then proximity to care doesn't matter that much. Because of the fact that there is this highly specialized care, you are also willing to travel a little further, in this case for your child. Mr. Chairman. That movement of the main line agreements will, as far as we are concerned, be a real move. Then it is about the movement from the second line to the first line, the right care in the right place. From this point of view, perhaps it would have been best if we had not all made separate basic agreements, one for Blokhuis, one for De Jonge and two for me. Maybe we should have tried to get them all in line, because if you want to try to get a move going, then the question is whether you should organize all that in columns. We chose it anyway. Because we did not want to get stuck in generalities, it had to become concrete and clear. You are assessing these basic agreements, but I think they are quite concrete and clear. As far as I am concerned, these basic agreements are in any case valid for the two which I have been allowed to conclude to regard as a kind of working agenda for the coming years. Fortunately, there have been some interconnections between our four main agreements. One is the right care in the right place, so try to get that development going. The second is reducing the administrative burden. Several Members of Parliament have spoken about this. There are scrap sessions and all kinds of other activities, until it gets noticeably better in practice. The third is labour market issues. We have discussed this extensively in the last week. Mr. Chairman. The pleasant thing about basic agreements is that there are signatures underneath them. In that respect, they are arrangements with the field. Of course, I read the newspapers and then I see that it is quite difficult to work towards decentralised regional agreements between specialists, hospitals and general practitioners, the Patients' Federation and insurers' domes and domes. I can see that's not easy. However, it has to be done, because that is how we agreed. I find it quite exciting to see whether making regional agreements, on the one hand, between insurers and hospitals and, on the other hand, between insurers and general practitioners or general practitioners, will be successful in the coming period. I think that's an exciting move. At the same time, I think it is a necessary move, because care costs will grow in the coming period. Without the conclusion of the MSZ main line agreement in particular, healthcare costs would be more expensive than they are at present, in the order size of 1.5 billion for that subject in the period up to 2021. Although I am not a contracting party to these regional agreements between insurers and hospitals and between insurers and general practitioners, I do think that I should stay very close to looking at the results of these contracts. That is why I asked the NZa to go around the turn of the year, because then those contracts would have to be there to get a picture of how the contracting process has been going in these months, whether it is going well, whether everyone is there, where there is not enough contract, where it remains too vague, so that we can make it better a round, so a year later. The involvement of the NZa is therefore a method for me to follow that contract and prove that things are going well. There is something else, which may have something less to do with the contract as such. The cooperation of the care parties across the columns will soon have to be shaped into something I call a'regional image' of the concern. That is also in the main agreement. There's the assignment to take a kind of picture of the available care per region. Several parties here in the Chamber have also called for this. Then it is about what the supply is and what the demand is and what future demand would be. How should the offer match that? I asked the RIVM to help me with that. I have heard man-made stories, for example from the region of Drenthe, where one can perhaps make such a picture of oneself. Perhaps there are other regions too, but I hope that, where help is needed, the RIVM can provide them, so that I have a sense of concern about the region, so clearly across those columns. That too is a form of involvement. The aid comes from RIVM, but the picture must be made mainly by the caretakers in the region. It seems to me to be a concrete way of assessing whether these basic agreements are enough of the paper. Of course there is a whole zip of other appointments, ranging from training nurses and physician assistants to the availability of patient data. All kinds of agreements are made and they are all mentioned in these broad agreements. So I really hope that these basic agreements can be a working agenda for me for the coming years. Before I switch to the second block, transparency, I believe there are a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u185	Exactly. Thank you, Minister. Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u186	The SP had submitted a note in the first term, entitled The Hospital Nearby. The Minister replied, and I have to conclude that it is once again Minister Njet, who stands on the sidelines and says: listen, the solution is that health insurers come together with the aid workers. That process goes on and he stays on the sidelines. But now let's take Bethesda in Hoogeveen. That's where clinical obstetrics snuck out of the hospital last Monday. The obstetricians were against that. The doctors were against that. The population was against that. Then I ask the Minister: if that is the outcome of the process that the Minister has just outlined, what do people buy for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u187	The note that reached us yesterday is called The Hospital nearby. The argument I just made is not about the hospital close, but about the care close. That is a discussion that we will have many times tonight, but also after tonight: it is not about keeping what we have as such, with 100 hospitals in the Netherlands. If I follow the reasoning of the SP and there must be a hospital at fifteen minutes' travel distance from every Dutchman, then I must have it is a blow in the air... about 170 hospitals. Mr President, that is not going to happen. The movement is right to bring the different care parties together and put them in a network. It's a bit of a fashion word, but it's not about organizing more hospitals. So the hospital's close? For some functions that will be possible, but not everything can be anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u188	It's about what care is needed. In this case, I'm talking about basic hospital care that people want. Then they want, if someone has to give birth, there's a hospital nearby in distress. That's just basic concern. The Minister is now coming up with a "sign table reality" that doesn't match what people are asking for. People are not asking for further scaling-up of hospitals. Dozens of hospitals have disappeared and merged over the past decades. People say it has to be done, it has to be done now. Let's cherish what we have. And that is without prejudice to the fact that the hospital can also organize things in the neighborhood. But what my plea is about is that a minister shouldn't look away. A government should not stand on the sidelines when things go wrong in a society, such as clinical obstetrics in Hoogeveen. There must be a government that says, "Listen, we're gonna fix this and we're gonna take care of this so that the people in Hoogeveen and the surrounding area get the care they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u189	Mr Van Gerven spoke about the drawing board. The idea of organizing a hospital for every Dutchman within fifteen minutes, which does not reach 100 but 170 hospitals on the back of a cigar box, is not my drawing board. I wouldn't want to. I am not in favour of it either, but I would just like to point out where the view of the SP in this case leads. Mr. Chairman. Look away? I have just said that I want to look very closely at the development of these basic agreements, on the one hand through the contracting process and, on the other hand, through the creation of regional images. I'm not saying, boys, you have to make something in the region and I'll see what comes of it. No, I'm offering my help. And if I offer the help of the RIVM, that is also help of quite good quality. It also gives me a chance to watch. I'm not looking away, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u190	Rounding up. The minister's talking about helping. It should have been there last Monday when in Hoogeveen clinical obstetrics closed. That's what the people asked for, that's what the general practitioners asked for and that's what the obstetricians asked for. Finally, the comment about the 170 hospitals. Your ministry or you didn't read the report properly, because what does it say? It says that we want a merger stop and that what we have will at least be preserved. The 15 minute criterion is very pleasant for that. Well, that's nice for people, 'cause it'll be easy for them to get to the hospital. It is also essential for clinical obstetrics, because if this distance is greater than fifteen to twenty minutes, the morbidity and mortality of mother and child increase. And we don't want any of that, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u191	It is a bit the reverse world to read from the SP note, but I really read on page 15: by car or by public transport, the individual patient must be able to reach a hospital within fifteen minutes. That's what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u192	You've already finished, Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u193	Yes, but then the Minister must also read the sequel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u194	I would like to do that: if the 15 minute standard is exceeded, a hospital may be closed and it cannot participate in a merger either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u195	This means that the 15 minute criterion must be considered if a hospital is to close or merge. We are in favour of a return of 70 hospitals, but we are in favour of an end to the scale increase. We haven't wanted that for ten or twenty years. All studies also show that it does not improve quality, that it does not improve efficiency and that people do not want it. Minister, act and act in the interests of society and don't look away!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u196	Mr President, I have already said it before. It concerns me when it is possible to take care close by, but sometimes we have to recognise that there may also be high quality care elsewhere, see the example of the Princess Máxima Centre. So it will always be about care in the right place. A drawing table model does not fit over that and what it will be exactly, we will discuss here in this room over the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u197	I am pleased that the Minister states that he is asking the NZa to closely monitor the development of the main agreements and that he wants to have every region examine the supply of care for the next ten years and what is the concern for the next ten years. I can only taste a reasonable amount of non-committalism in this: can the regions do so or not? Secondly, each region can do it in its own way, and as a result we have no learning culture and it becomes difficult to exchange experiences. I would like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u198	First, that regional image. That is not without obligation, because it is a passage in the main agreement. This kind of picture of healthcare provision and demand is coming from each region. So that's not non-binding. That's just an appointment. There's autographs underneath it. Then the question is whether it should all be cuckoo one singing. Does it all have to be the same way? I think that is what regions choose to do. That's okay, too. If ten regions opt for RIVM assistance, they may be much alike. But if Drenthe does it in a different way, I don't know, I'm fine with that. Because I am concerned that the need for care should be identified in that region. I think that's important. I am willing to see if I can get lines, especially for the longer term, out of the multitude of images that will be there, even if it may take a while. I find five years or ten years of looking ahead in the care, where you're on your way to networks and where you're trying to get that transition going, quite frankly, incredibly difficult. But I'm going to give it a shot, because I think that footage of the region is important. I understand very well the discussion that Mrs Van den Berg and Mr Van Gerven are having.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u199	Can I conclude, then, that the Minister is going to see that the way in which the supply of care and the demand for care are calculated are at least the same? I understand that there are other proposals in the regions, that they are going to collect images there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u200	I find that too complicated again. I really think that I should leave the region to speak. It may well be that the view in one region points to a very different direction than in another.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u201	The minister mentioned the NZa that will monitor the contracting. Later in his speech, will he be more specific about the NZa's first line monitoring and physiotherapist contracting?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u202	The physiotherapists are still on my own. About the NZa-contracting I almost got the request from everyone during the dinner break to keep it a little short and concise, I wanted to leave it at that, but if there are any questions about that, I would like to answer them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u203	Then I'll keep my questions about the physiotherapists. I had another question. The Minister was right to say that these basic agreements are important. I share with him the insight, that is to say, that it would also have been wise to find the connection between these basic agreements. There's something missing. Now there is also a lack of a broad agreement, one might say, for paramedical care. My question to the Minister is whether he would also like to conclude a headline agreement for paramedical care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u204	Then I will do so in one block, physiotherapists and whether or not to make administrative arrangements with physiotherapy, logopedists and with paramedical care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u205	The Court of Auditors wonders whether the reduction of healthcare costs by means of these basic agreements really has to do with the quality requirements or whether they are actually due to the setting of ceilings. That is also what the Court of Auditors believes, and we agree with them, that there are too few performance indicators to which we can properly read. I was curious to hear what the Minister thinks of this statement by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u206	The first comment was about the CPB. I spoke to the CPB about our main agreements, together. It is considered that there is a very good foundation. Of course the evidence is in the future, but the CPB is now convinced with us that, for example, we can achieve this reduction in the additional costs through these broad lines of agreement. They believe with us that it can go the right way. That's one. Then the Court of Auditors. It has said about the previous series of basic agreements, and that is not surprising, because at that time it was actually a sort of interim agreement that it was a lot of price and little content. That's really different now. They're extensive appointments, with signatures underneath, and they've all been appointed, with agreements about where you can see the results. Whether it is about VIPP, the labour market or (Ont) Regulal de Zorg, there are concrete agreements everywhere. I haven't heard from the Court of Auditors yet. I admit that to Mrs. Sazias. I actually think they're very satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u207	I don't think so, but we're definitely gonna hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u208	Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u209	Thank you to the Minister for his introduction to the main agreements. I welcome the fact that he is responsible in the Chamber for his views on the main agreements. So far we had to do it mainly with reconstructions from the newspaper. What was missing from these reconstructions is indeed the political debate we are having here today. Thank you to the Minister for that. Of course it's just supposed to be, but it's good to mark that for a while. I would also like to say a few words on the substance of the agreements and not on the philosophy behind them, on the male industry and on the signatures, but on a subject which is not really included in a broad agreement, particularly in the area of first-line care. Those are the paramedics. I have drawn attention to this in appreciation of the doctors' assistants, but also, of course, because I have spoken with them. I have heard from them that they are getting more and more tasks within the general practitioner's practice. They also like to carry out these tasks, but they do not get formal recognition for them. They don't even feel that way about themselves, but they're so afraid that the doctor's assistant's profession, as far as I'm concerned, isn't protected from benevolent amateurs. I thought: I'm going to ask them for formal registration under Article 34 of the BIG Registry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u210	Is that your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u211	My question is... The Minister doesn't feel that way. I'm sorry for the long introduction chairman, but we never talk about doctors' assistants. We all know that if she doesn't do her job well, it's often a woman who's going to suffer the consequences. The minister says it's not a basic profession. It's just a function. My appeal to the Minister is: think about it again. Let the appreciation, the functional recognition and the importance of the role of the doctor's assistant prevail over all kinds of bureaucratic arguments. Appreciate them now. That's actually my simple question. All he has to do is say yes, and then you will be rid of me, Mr President, on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u212	You didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u213	The main agreements are, of course, about everything in the first and second lines. If it's all right with you, Mr President, I'd like to park Mrs Ploumen's question. I would like to respond separately to this later in my speech, also in recognition of the doctor's assistant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u214	Yesterday we found that the highest percentage of income is much less than the average cost of care than the average income. Modal incomes have lost 25% of their income to health care costs. For the highest incomes, people who earn more than a tonne, that's only 14%. The SP has proposed to make the income-dependent part of the care premium fairer, more income-dependent. What does the government write in the letter we received today? We don't do this, because we think that what you pay for your own insurance should be related to what you get in return. In my view, that is simply what we call the principle of profit. For defense and for the police, we pay the burden together. The richest people can also contribute the most. But when it comes to care costs, apparently you can stop it. Even if you keep getting richer, you don't have to contribute to the cost of care. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u215	An important thing in paying to our healthcare system is solidarity. Healthy contributes to sick. We believe that we have made the right balance with a package of measures in the coalition agreement. We are implementing these measures successfully. We are not working towards an income-dependent contribution. That is another method, and we have not chosen it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u216	The Minister dares to take the word'solidarity' in his mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u217	Sure. I looked at you and I thought: solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u218	Solidarity would mean that as your income rises, your share of healthcare costs increases. Within this system, it is the exact opposite: the more you earn, the lower the percentage of your income you lose in healthcare costs. It's in your own pieces. A person with a modal income has lost a quarter of his income to care costs... those figures you have provided yourself... and the richer you get, the lower that percentage. That has nothing to do with solidarity, that is reverse solidarity, and I ask the government to adapt it, to reverse that and to distribute the care bill more fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u219	There's more than one answer to that. The one answer was given fantasticly yesterday by Mr Rutte, namely that if you look at the lowest paid people in the Netherlands, at the minima, you see that the development of healthcare costs has actually led to a relatively lower pay than ten or twelve years ago. That's a wonderful development, isn't it? What is Mr Hijink doing? He's choosing another group. He says, "I'm not gonna talk about the minima, I'm gonna talk about the modes." We've made another choice. I can't say it any more clearly. With the freezing of one's own risk, as an example, we have said that if you do not increase your own risk, that means that it will return to the premium. That's the kind of premium that pays healthy for sick people. That's solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u220	Finalizing, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u221	Now the Minister wants to talk about another group. Then let's talk about another group: people at minimum wage. They lost 19% of their income to healthcare costs. That is still far more than the 14% of people who make more than a tonne. I can assure you that if you're gonna flip that, that's a whole bite out of your income. Those are numbers the Ministry itself provides. I'm not making them up. They are your own figures, and you are talking about solidarity. You're putting on big pants. You say that we have a system of solidarity. I note that the highest incomes pay the lowest percentage of healthcare costs. This is not solidarity, it is reverse solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u222	I can also do a math. A person who earns 2 million spends a smaller percentage of his income on healthcare costs. I am talking about the solidarity of those who pay for the sick. We have sought a balance in this. That's an arbitrary choice. That is a political choice and we have laid it down in the coalition agreement. That's how we want to do it, and that's how we want to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u223	The Minister continues his speech. You're not gonna get any closer after three times, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u224	Mr. Chairman. I have talked about the main agreements. One more comment on transparency. I have appointed several parties involved in key agreements, but I have not yet mentioned the Patient Federation. I consider the fact that the Patients' Federation has contributed to the main agreements to be very important. As with the broad agreements in general, I believe that the citizen, the patient, should be able to know his data and to know, have or obtain information about his treatment. This brings me to the issue of transparency and openness. We will also be discussing this in this Chamber in the coming years: transparency and openness when it comes to healthcare providers, insurers and pharmaceuticals. In many of these areas, citizens will need to be able to get more information about their treatment. When it comes to hospitals, we work on the outcomes of treatment, that you can know the outcome of your treatment for half of the disease burden in a way that is so practical that in the office you can have the right conversation about whether this is the best appropriate treatment and whether it leads to the desired outcome or result. It's not just about the treatment itself, it's about the outcome. How am I gonna live after the surgery? Am I gonna be incontinent my whole life or am I gonna be able to walk the marathon again? That's what I mean by outcome-oriented treatments. If you're talking about putting on big pants, these are big pants: 50% of the disease burden are trying to map out by 2020, so that it can be used in the office. I'm looking forward to doing that with professionals. That 50% is based on international comparisons. Other countries also farmers in that direction of 40% or 50%, so we have given this task to ourselves here. That is also in the main agreements. Transparency not only for hospitals but also for insurers. I would like to come back later to talk about the policy, in response to Mrs Van den Berg's speeches and some others here. I would also like to talk about the transparency and openness of pharmaceuticals about the price of medicines. Since no specific question has been asked about the price of medicines, I say here, because of this transparency, that these expensive medicines will put us in the shoes of a pebble in the next few years. I think it is important that we look for a method to see whether we can retain the innovative power of pharmacy on the one hand, but on the other hand we can also ensure that it remains at reasonable prices for medicines. The possibility of cross-border comparisons is an important instrument in this respect. We've found a group of countries that share the information about price negotiations on expensive drugs. They are the countries of the Benelux, Ireland and Austria. Sometimes they even negotiate together, maybe not all five together, but at least with a subset of those five. A kind of initiative by a group of countries that are also working together in this area exists in Central Europe. I am talking to the Czech colleague to see if we can bring these two clubs together, because we could be nine or so and perhaps even more countries to see if we can make this comparability of drug prices clearer and more open. And, Mr President, I would also like to say here that we want to see and map these expensive medicines together with a group of countries. We call that "horizon scanning." That's a Dutch instrument. But we're also going to develop it for other countries together. The call for tenders on this issue took place just today. That's why I found it attractive to mention this here. Mr President, transparency and openness will therefore continue to concern us on many points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u225	Maybe it's okay if I interrupt you for a couple of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u226	I'm almost ready to finish the introduction, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u227	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u228	This is because I have talked about basic agreements and transparency. Last year, at the start of the cabinet, one of the first questions asked to me was: what is a human life worth to you? I just heard in colleague De Jonge's speech that a human life is infinitely worth it, especially if you know that person, if it's your partner, your friend, your girlfriend, your child. But our budget is not infinite. And that tension will be felt until the last day of this cabinet, and also in subsequent Cabinets. As far as I am concerned, continuing to work towards affordability must run along the lines of these main lines of agreement and transparency, at least in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u229	Thank you. Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u230	Mr President, very briefly. I agree with the Minister that the cost of medicines is far too high, while at the same time we also want innovation. Together with the SP and GroenLinks, the PvdA has submitted an own-initiative paper in which we make 68 proposals that could help curb these costs and reduce the market power of the pharmaceuticals. I therefore hope that the Minister will look with great goodwill at these sensible proposals, and I look forward to the consultation of notes on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u231	I've studied that note carefully. In a letter I have already responded to many of these proposals. I would like to say that you are planning the debate. We do not agree on all the points, but on the subject of the tension which Mrs Ploumen also mentions, on the one hand, the importance of innovative pharmacy and, on the other hand, the importance of price moderation, we need to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u232	I see that Mrs Ploumen wishes to respond once again, but I note that this was an answer to an unasked question, which now leads her back to questions about an own-initiative paper that we are going to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u233	No, Mr. Chairman. I'm just saying, December 10th is the meeting. So the Minister can put that in his agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u234	Okay, that's a deal. Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u235	We are living in an incredibly special time, because over the next two years there will be about 300 medicines on the market that will be spectacularly life-changing and life-saving. So many families will have a different future and so many children will have a different future. That's incredibly special. And I am truly bewildered that I am hearing the Minister for Medical Care say that this is given as 'a pebble in his shoe'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u236	I also think a little... It's a stray rock in my shoe. I don't recognize the number of the 300, I must say. In the discussions we have been having over the last few years on expensive drugs, the order size is ten. So I don't recognize the number of those 300. But the fact that there is a pipeline full of new medicines is something to cheer about in itself, because that means that for many, often small groups of patients there are still new medicines on the way. That's the right side. The other side is that it's very often very expensive medicine. So we have to think of all kinds of things to get those drugs, but at a reasonable price.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u237	I am so tired of the ministers who pretend to walk into the Lower House of the States-General every time and then yell at me, as if I didn't just have a reliable source in which the 300 would be in the next two years. It's out there somewhere on the pile with all those pink papers on my bench. But I also think that the Minister can assume that if I ask a question here, I will do so on the basis of facts. I find it incredibly exciting, and in fact the most beautiful time we are going to experience here with all of us: about 300 means are going to change life and family life spectacularly. And the Minister for Medical Care doesn't think that's very special and very beautiful. No, he's still adjusting his assessment from a pebble in his shoe to a whole rock in his shoe. I am truly perplexed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u238	That these are exciting times, I believe, comes from my lyrics. In answering the questions I wrote literally: "I don't recognize the number of the 300." It's not like I wouldn't want to know. I'd like to look for the source, but I just wanted to report it because I wrote it down this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u239	Good. You will now continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u240	I would like to briefly mention ten small points from questions raised by your Chamber in the first term. I'm going by the order of the speakers. Mrs. Agema mentioned moving hospital care to more care in the first line. Mrs Agema said that the number of general practitioners has fallen and the number of patients is increasing, and because of this intended development, that transition, correct care in the right place..................................................................................................................................................................................... Mrs Agema, and others who have said that, is quite right. It is therefore very important to note that in recent years, fortunately, there have been more general practitioners. But that doesn't reassure us yet, because we see that general practitioners also work part-time. So we will have to continue to train quite a few new general practitioners. Let us be advised by the Capacity Body on this. That makes estimates with bandwidth and we can at least make sure that there is sufficient funding available to train that annual estimate of the number of general practitioners, and then at the top of the estimate, 750. Maybe that'll help. But that is not enough either, because we can also see that in some regions there is a shortage of general practitioners. The examples fly over the table here, again this evening and also in previous debates. That's why we talked together with the National Family Doctors Association about the reasons why we should go somewhere or not as a general practitioner. I expect to have that report, which I make with the family doctor's association, available by the end of this year. I hope that it will provide us both, the National Family Doctors Association and me, with the tools to see how we can take a step in the right direction with regard to that cut in the region. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the jumping point in Mr Rutte's speech about smart care at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u241	Mrs. Agema still has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u242	Yes, first of all a source: number 28, Horizonscan Medicines of the Dutch Health Institute. I have to adjust that number of 300 because it's 314. 314 spectacular medicines will come in the next two years, according to the Dutch Health Institute. Doesn't really seem like an unreliable source.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u243	Now that I know the source, I don't doubt the source either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u244	The next question is on the basis of the written answer we received earlier today, because I assume that the Minister had come to the end of answering my questions. I asked him yesterday about the first-line beds. How many are there and is this enough? His answer is that there are 3,500. He then writes: "The 2017 market scan shows that there are no signs that there has been insufficient ELV capacity purchased by health insurers. For 2018 I had the NZa check this out last summer with both Zorgverzekerings Nederland and ActiZ and there were no signals from these two parties that there were problems with capacity." Of course, I didn't ask for nothing. Again, I come here to the teeth armed with sources, reliable sources, organizations I consider reliable, for example the National General Medical Association...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u245	You asked your question. I suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u246	No, I'm gonna ask the question now. That was the Minister's answer to the question I asked yesterday on the basis of a report that came out yesterday. That report says that a quick solution is often not found. Only 21% find an ELV bed on the same day. There is no ELV bed free in 59% of cases. It takes too much time: 66%. It's unclear where the bed is: 33%. When I ask how many beds there are and if it is enough, I get the answer: there is no shortage. How is that possible, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u247	The question was about the amount of first-line beds and whether they were sufficient. I've tried to answer in the most factual way. Mrs Agema has just repeated the answer. I believe that we should not leave it at that, because we also know that peak pressure can always occur, for example in the case of a flu wave. That is why I have asked ROAZ, the Regional Active Care Consultation, to come up with a plan of action for each region, precisely in order to cope with this peak pressure. That seemed to me to be an important addition to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u248	Finalizing, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u249	In the written answer I just get zero on the record: no, it's not true, it wasn't found. But yesterday's report from the National Family Doctors Association just says that only 21% of the cases, one in five, a general practitioner finds a first-line bed within one day. It also says that in 59% of cases there is no first-line bed free. That's a completely different picture, isn't it? A reliable report from a trustworthy organization. It has been deported to 1,233 general practitioners. I'll get the Minister's answer. I'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u250	In the same answer, I think that I should not go into a factual observation that I have heard, and therefore have written down, from the same source that Mrs Agema cites as asking the NZa to monitor the capacity, the need, for the coming period. That's one. Two. I have asked the regional bodies to ensure that, in the event of peak pressure, for example in the event of a flu wave, there is a plan of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u251	You've now made the point three times...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u252	Mr President, I did not speak for a moment about peak pressure. It's a scan based on what just happens every day. Only one in five times the same day a bed is found. So four out of five times, not one bed is found on day one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u253	I didn't just talk about peak pressure either. I've also been talking about peak pressure. I referred to ROAZ and I asked to keep an eye on the capacity. That's what I asked the NZa.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u254	Good. You were replying to a question from Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u255	Yes. Mr Rutte spoke about smart care at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u256	However, a question from Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to respond for a moment to what Mrs. Agema says. I also find that 59% shocking. Did we not just hear Minister De Jonge say that the number of dementias will double? Is it not clear that we have to anticipate this and that it is not enough to monitor the number of beds? Are we not already sure that there should be more first-line residences? I have to tell you, I've been getting these signals from different sides too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u258	I have asked the NZa to see if there is and can remain sufficient capacity for first-line beds over the coming period, whether that is for a flu wave or the group Mrs Sazias is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u259	Good. The Minister is now continuing his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u260	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to make a third attempt to deal with Mr Rutte's point about smart care at home. Mr Rutte did not mention the example that struck me, but I assume it is the combination of Slingeland Hospital and Sensire, which have organized image bubbles for chronic patients in that part of the Netherlands. Mr Rutte asked whether we could examine whether these initiatives could be used and whether we could also finance them, but the important intermediary in his question was almost a cry for help: clean up as well. So that is not: let the thousand flowers bloom. E-health applications, like that image bubble, are a wonderful development. They can help on the patient's side because they feel more secure and because the doctor is a mouse click or a phone call away from him. He doesn't have to go to surgery anymore, but he's got that doctor or that nurse very close. It might also matter in the budget. The positive appreciation for image bubbles in the east of the country is indeed very pleasant to listen to. We also talked to patients there. Mr. Chairman. I have spent the last 24 hours looking for ingredients to see if I can replace Mr Rutte's request with regard to that three-stage rocket............................................................................................................................................................................................... In any case, there is a reference to the main line agreements, because they deal with the introduction of efficient e-health applications which are in line with the line Mr Rutte wanted. This includes an efficiency study programme. That's resting at ZonMw. There's an extra budget for that, too. That's where the research side is. I make it all a little too simple, but I name ingredients for all three. For example, the funding is in the transition funds that are part of the main line agreements. Imagine that there are too large buildings that have to be said goodbye, then there are transition means available, although you can't say so here in general. So I think we can fill in those three ingredients that belong to smart care at home. I looked it up just as soon in the report The right care in the right place, which the task force released this spring. It also mentions an initiative by the medical specialists, the "Better Don't Do" list. This also means abolishing practices which are no longer part of the directive. If they no longer belong in the directive, they do not actually belong in the insured care of the insurer. Mr Rutte's ambition therefore means that there must be a strong gauntlet, but I think that we must face that challenge for the next three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u261	Thank you very much to the Minister for taking up this glove. I saw it in the answers, too. It is being looked at seriously and a lot is already happening that we can make use of, as he himself describes. But let me just get that first point, that medical evaluation study. That's what's happening. This is already happening in broad terms. But if we really say that smart care at home is extremely important because chronically ill patients are at risk of hiding the care system if we don't organise it smartly and properly, can we get a priority around that medical evaluation study? Or doesn't the minister have so much influence on ZonMw that he can say there: look out especially for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u262	Two things. I have sometimes been surprised that we do not see initiatives like that in the Netherlands. We discussed the labour market here last week. We also touched on the issue of innovation at the time. We have also said: we are going to ask some superexperts or ambassadors to try to bring good initiatives from the country somewhere else. I think that an ambassador like that could help bring an example like that to the attention of the public. On the other hand, I think that we should do efficiency research properly. There's an extra budget for that, too. At the same time, we need to be a little cautious on this point, because in recent years, forms of efficiency research have failed. I think there should be a step forward towards ZonMw who is carrying out that programme's efficiency research. I need results.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u263	I'll take that as an implicit yes. If the Minister wants results, it might be a very good programme to deliver. The second part of my question concerns financing. The Minister mentioned something about which I had an interrupting debate with Mrs Van den Berg yesterday. If a hospital has too much real estate and you're gonna do less at the hospital, you might have to say goodbye to real estate. I understand that, but with funding structures, I was thinking of something else, too. In conversation with medical specialists I sometimes hear that they honestly say that they also fill their agenda with polyps from chronic patients, once in a while. That's a nice steady income stream. Of course, it will expire if you do this. Now we don't have to feel sorry for specialists, but I can imagine that you'll get another payment title if a specialist from the hospital has to keep an eye on people, not to fill the whole gap, but to make sure that that activity is paid for. Can that be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u264	We have to take this into account, because precisely in the case of medical-specialist care, growth space will be limited to zero in the coming years in 2022, in order to take it from the other side. It will have to be taken into account in and between hospitals that these amounts are adjusted downwards. Not everything can stay the way it always has been in the past few years. I see this as an important cap to that broad agreement. I am also very glad that we have the signature. That's the movement we need to make, and that's gonna lead to heavy conversations in the hospitals. That sounds a bit threatening, but a lot of specialists also love to use this kind of innovative methods. But it has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u265	The Minister continues his speech. The third answer in a series of ten answers he's going to give.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u266	Well, I'm pretty busy on the show. I come to Mrs Ellemeet, who mentioned the point with others: can you take more direction when it comes to data exchange in healthcare? Mrs Ellemeet has appointed it, but also Mrs Van den Berg and several other groups. As I said earlier in another debate, I would like to put my vision of this direction on paper. I promised you that I would send that to your Chamber in December. That's a court answer. In recent years, I have taken into account a motion of some time ago, the so-called Tan motion, which put great restrictions on the direction of the national government. We now need better systems to be shared, to connect these interconnections, but also to speak the same language. I don't know if it got into the bundle, but one healthcare provider uses the word upper leg and the other the abbreviation BB. That sounds too easy to be true, but digitalisation leads us to find this kind of linguistic differences and we will have to pay attention to that. Now one thing is more important than another, but it has to be done in conjunction. So yes, I'd love to, and with the support of the Chamber, that the government can take a stronger direction in data exchange. Of course, privacy must always remain at the top. I hope it's not just that directional role. It may seem like an abstract discussion, but it will become incredibly practical if we can use personal health environments over the next few years. This includes a system of agreements called MedMij. Then we're gonna see that the patient gets access to his own data, and I think that's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u267	Thank you for the Minister's answers to the questions I had. There is great frustration among many caregivers and patients, who are also affected by it, because they cannot share that information properly and there are no such digital connections. There is an enormous desire to tackle this quickly and quickly. My question to the Minister is: does he have the ambition to solve this problem that we now have within his own term of office?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u268	Well, fix it... I don't even know the extent of the problem yet. There are many facets to this. But significant steps need to be taken in the coming years. I've been involved in that myself. I have written in the answers about this: if it is necessary and if suppliers collide and don't come out, then they come to the Ministry. Then they'll come in either official or high-ranking. If it's necessary to have that conversation administratively, I'd love to. I think it's important. But we're moving the feed bin for the horses. We have been able to achieve the results in recent years by seducing. We've set up the Information Board. All kinds of parties that are of prime importance are at our table. But we didn't have much leverage, because we weren't allowed. Now, with one motion after another seeing the light on this, I think it's useful for us... No, it's necessary to strengthen that directional role. I would also like to state in my letter of December whether there is a need for a legal basis for this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u269	The minister says we don't even know exactly how big and complex it all is. It's complicated. Sure, I won't deny that. But at the same time we also know that we need to take a number of steps to share that information. Those steps are also fairly clear: you need standards at different levels and they need to be secured. My question is once again whether the Minister would like to have regulated the legal guarantee of these standards before the end of his own term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u270	I have just indicated that I am thinking about whether this should have a legal basis. I'll write that down in that letter from December. Mrs Ellemeet is just a step further than I am. She says: there is a legal basis and you must play a legal role in this. I haven't gotten there yet. I really need a little time to figure out my position here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u271	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of big interests involved. That's what makes it complicated. And that also makes it necessary for this minister not to be afraid of it, and places the dot on the horizon and says: "This is where we have to go with each other. Interests or not and earning models or not as with the ICT suppliers, but we're going to do this!" Finally, I would like to encourage the Minister once again to act vigorously in this regard and to ensure that these standards are legally guaranteed as far as GroenLinks is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u272	Let me put it this way: we will have multiple horizons and multiple dots on this subject. And there must be dots to be reached in this cabinet period. Thanks for the encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u273	Let's talk about the "BB." Indeed, the written reply states that this abbreviation can mean for the one "upper leg' and for the other "upper abdomen'. We were thinking that "BB" could also mean "Bruno Bruins." Later in the written reply it also says: it is time to abolish the fax and the bike. Well, we are very happy to abolish the fax in the care. We would like to ask the cabinet if it really is the intention to abolish the bicycle in the care. 'Cause that's not what we're here for. But now my more specific question. We received KPMG's report this week. KPMG says that the biggest bottleneck is the lack of a single comprehensive plan. Of course, the Information Board is also a bit meant for this, but that is not really where it comes from. Would the Minister, when it comes to data exchange and digitisation, also be prepared to come up with a single master plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u274	That's not gonna work, so the answer is, no, that's what we're gonna do. That's too much. The technical questions are very different from the unity of language. So in the direction of Mr 'RR' I should say: that is not going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u275	Following on from what Mrs Ellemeet said about the earning models available for suppliers. I also hear from hospitals: "We all already work with the same supplier. And yet we can't communicate with each other. It costs millions of euros to adapt all this separately." Then my question is, "Why don't you two sit down together? Why don't you call the supplier?" Then people are very afraid of the ACM. Maybe the Minister can do something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u276	I have already received this question from Mrs Van den Berg. I also experience in practice that hospitals are sometimes afraid of this cooperation, under the call of the ACM. The ACM is willing to answer concrete questions at the most prealable moment and has also put ideas on paper about what space there is in the past period. You shouldn't be too scared as a hospital, and so should other healthcare providers. This active role is thus better and better taken by the ACM. If I can help bring that information to hospitals or other healthcare providers, we're going to have the physiotherapists, and I'd like to do so actively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u277	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u278	Yeah, one other point, about lifestyle medicine. I'll be brief. Mrs Ellemeet has tabled an amendment on this subject calling for the funds for the Translational Research programme to be increased for lifestyle medicine. I'm just gonna do it like this. Last week we received a manifesto on lifestyle medicine presented by a lot of enthusiastic professionals who spoke about it. I should like to leave this amendment to the Court's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u279	The Ellemeet amendment in part No. So 14 gets "judge chamber." The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u280	Then I was going to say something in the direction of Mrs Van den Berg about the ZorgKaartNederland in twenty years' time, but I have already done so in the debate on the regional picture. So that's not 20 years from now. That will be in a period of about five years or perhaps a little longer, but not in 20 years. The question that Mrs Van den Berg has asked: what will the ZorgKaartNederland look like in twenty years' time? Oh, of course, it's incredibly interesting. It is almost impossible to answer if you only think from the current care columns, as I discussed in my introduction. This is about the content of the care, but we also have the affordability of the care. He's gonna piss us off. That's what we talk about on a regular basis. We have called in support forces, from the WRR to the SER, to feed on ideas and suggestions, but we also think it is important to involve the field parties, so the concerns with which we have concluded the main agreements, in the coming years in the question of how to keep care affordable in the Netherlands. It's a rave remark. So, perhaps not tomorrow and perhaps not the day after tomorrow, but still this cabinet period, we will certainly be talking about the affordability of care in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u281	The Minister explained that there is a budget impact analysis in the quality frameworks. Is this analysis also looking at the financial effects for regional hospitals, or is it only at macro level?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u282	Sorry, but... If this had been a written question, I could have answered it in writing and all I had to do was nod or shake, but I really need to look for this. Mr. Chairman. I would still like to talk about the transparency of healthcare policies. Mrs Van den Berg asked whether it was a little too late to carry out an evaluation until 2021 or 2022. Just a few points about those insurance policies. Mrs Ploumen also asked. She asked: 60,000 different collections, should that number remain? We do not think so, or in fact we think it should be transparent for the citizen, so that he can make a good choice and know what the content of his insurance policy is. A choice of 60,000 or 50,000 isn't gonna be him. No one can. A few things about that. If there are differences in the price and quality of insurance policies, we want them to be clearly visible. The collectivity discount of max. 10%, which applied until last year, has had little effect. That was another cigar out of its own box, if I may say so, perhaps a little too homely. That's why we're gonna bring it down to max. 5%, to see if the number of collections will be concentrated. I think that's gonna help, but the evidence is with the insurers. That has to be delivered. What I really do expect is that we have said to insurers: now put with your collections, with all of them, out of what model agreement they come from. There are ten insurers in the Netherlands. Together they have about 50 model agreements. These are the different types of insurance they offer. From that 50, that whole range of 50,000 or 60,000 collections spawned. It seemed useful to me that at least all those 50,000 or 60,000 collections are from which of those 50 they come from. That already gives a pretty good insight. Then you still have differences in price and quality, but at least you have concentrated the lot to 50. That's what they're gonna do. That's what the insurance companies are gonna do. They're gonna mention that, and we're gonna judge them on that, too. The NZa will. We will see the first picture of this somewhere in the course of 2019. We will then be able to see whether that has been achieved or whether that transparency is being understood. And then we are going to urge the insurers whether the number of these 50 model agreements can also be reduced. Perhaps one asterisk: I do not believe that one of us, anyone in the Netherlands at all, knows all those 50,000 to 60,000 collections. You don't have to. Most of them are not applicable to you either, because you simply do not fall into one of those collectives. So the soup isn't being eaten so hot. But these are concrete measures to improve that understanding of this multitude of policies. I shall go back to Mrs Van den Berg's question. She asked whether this intermediate position on that understanding of the transparency of policies could not then be provided a little earlier. The answer to that is "no." We create an AMvB in which the collectivity discount is reduced from 10% to 5%. This will only play a role in the next policy season, the policy season that will play in autumn 2019 for the insurance of 2020. So if you want some evaluation, you're a year away. That's why. Mr. Chairman. I'm just getting corrected by expert people. The collectivity discount will be 5% in 2020. Until then, it's 10%. I was wrong about a year on the schedule. But the reasoning remains. Mr. Chairman. Then several spokesmen asked a question about the accommodations. Mr Slootweg spoke about De Boeg. Another has spoken about the transition to a care unit. The question is as follows. A guest house is not insured care, because it is a lodging facility, but there is a need to see whether there can be not only a stay but also a form of care. I might say it a little too flat, but a patient not only likes being in a guesthouse with family members, but it doesn't keep a hospital bed occupied. There are several examples. The Ronald McDonald may be a well-known example, but I also mention the De Bow. There's more. I call it The Farmer House Family in Groningen. So the question is: if it is not only a guest house but also an element of care provision, can you investigate whether and how that is financially possible? That was Mr Slootweg's question and others. It's a question that's a little between us. It's part of the Health Insurance Act and it's part of Langer Home. But we'd like to do that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u283	Is the Minister still considering the basic package, the content of the policy? Or was he all done with his story about the policies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u284	Yeah, I was pretty much done with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u285	Then I have the next question to the Minister. It is about the discussion whether or not oral care belongs in the package. The same applies to physiotherapy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u286	Mr Van Gerven, may I ask if Mr Slootweg may first ask his question? Then we can close this subject. Then you will have a different subject. Otherwise, it's gonna get messy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u287	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u288	First of all for clarity: are research forms involved with care and forms without care?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u289	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u290	Okay. That's clear. Do you have a time frame in your head, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u291	Before the evening is over, you have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u292	Okay. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u293	Then you may now ask your question, Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u294	It is about the basic question: what belongs in the basic package that we collectively organise? In response to my statement on which care should be included in the package, the Minister writes: I agree that all care that is proven to be effective should be part of the package. I was very happy with that, but then we can see that, for example, oral care is medically effective care and that it is not in the package. The Minister says that people can pay for this themselves or they can arrange it through supplementary insurance. From the supplementary insurance, 1.7 billion is paid out to oral care. For us, the Central Planning Office calculated that it would be 1.2 billion if we organized oral care collectively. Wouldn't it be much more convenient to organize the collective? If it is so ineffective to organise it through supplementary insurance and the people still have that cost, why not organize it collectively?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u295	Because it's gonna be more expensive in health care. You know I'm standing here wanting to keep the care affordable. On such an evening as this, I should especially like to add things to the package. I don't think we should go on that path.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u296	But that's weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u297	Well, I don't...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u298	That's weird! People pay 1.7 billion in premium for supplementary insurance. So they've lost it, because almost everyone has that supplementary insurance. Almost everyone provides additional guarantees for that oral care. Then why don't we organize it collectively? Those costs are lost to the people anyway. In addition, if we organize it through supplementary insurance, we will lose 300 million extra red tape. Then there is no senseless extra cost for the citizen. So I ask the Minister again: why don't we organize it collectively? That's cheaper and better. It also ensures that access to oral care is well arranged for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u299	I'm glad the SP is so excited about the fact that so many people have supplementary insurance. I have heard colleagues from Mr Van Gerven speak very differently about this. But we must leave the bill there too, because there are countless candidates to add to what is called the basic package.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u300	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u301	No, you can come back to this in second term. But you're not getting any closer. I would like the Minister to continue answering his questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u302	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Hijink's question about the negotiations with the physiotherapists. Mrs Ellemeet and others have also asked for this. Let me say first of all that I could easily expand Mr Hijink's question. It applies not only to the physiotherapists but also to the logopedists. What about the negotiations between physiotherapists and health insurance companies? This question has reached me several times over the last period. Is there any real negotiation? There's a lot of complaints about the rates. What's the market like? How accessible is it? How should we address the complaints from the industry? I have been asking these questions at the NZa, which currently actively monitors the contracting, so I map out how that works in practice. That's the monitor I'm expecting at the beginning of 2019. This is what Mr Hijink knows, because that is how I wrote it down in the answers. If you look deep into my heart, I'd like to work on administrative arrangements with the paramedical sector. That may not be a general agreement, but it is administrative agreement. I'd work towards that, but it takes two to tango. For this tango I need at least three parties. So I'm gonna have to work on that a little bit. I can imagine that if I have the NZa's report what does the market look like, what about the tariffs and where are the blockades now? (b) to make administrative arrangements with the parties on the table. Does that solve everything? I don't know, I hope so. At least it could be a step in the right direction. I think it is important, not only for the physiotherapists, but also for the logopedists and perhaps for other paramedical groups, to start that conversation. Two things actually apply here. One is that the ACM, the Authority Consumer and Market, may also have to be involved in some form, not as a player in administrative arrangements, but in order to provide insight into how to contract. Because it's also very difficult for an insurer. There are a lot of physiotherapists. There are also a lot of logopedists, really many thousands. Individual contracting in another way, of "here you have the contract and you can sign it," becomes quite complicated. But I would also like to include the knowledge of the Consumer and Market Authority. That's one thing. The other point is that these administrative arrangements are not just there and that this will take some time. I think it's a theme that needs our attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u303	There are actually two questions. What kind of administrative arrangements does the Minister intend to make? I'm curious about that. If you look at what happened, for example, in the general practitioners, where agreements could be made in a regional context at some point, you will see that in practice it is no longer a bag and that the ACM says that: consultation between the general practitioners should not be aimed at gaining more negotiating power. For example, there should still be no discussion of tariffs by general practitioners. There should be no mention of service differences that they offer. As a matter of fact: even if you do end up in a collective, we now have an Authority Consumer and Market. You ask yourself what it is looking for in the care care that interferes with the general practitioner care, with the physiotherapists and with the logopedists to maintain some kind of artificial competition that no one gets better from. What exactly is the Minister's view of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u304	He really doesn't have a clue. I am trying to say here that the remarks that have been made in my direction over the past period by physiotherapists, by speech-pedists and also by dietists included: we find it incredibly difficult to reach good agreements with the insurer. For the physiotherapists I know that there is... I will not use the word "kissel in the shoe"... a hair in the soup with the treatment index. They find that incredibly difficult. That's what I'm told every time. This is not an instrument of the government, but of the parties themselves. It's very difficult to see how you can change that. At the same time, when people ask me the question, I'd like to see what's possible there. So I formulate a little bit of caution, and that's why I'm grabbing the NZa monitor that's being created about that contracting process. That monitor might provide building blocks for appointments. That's how general I have to keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u305	I'm not asking what the NZa will do. I'm not asking what the ACM is gonna do. I'm not asking what the healthcare providers are gonna do. I'm not asking what the health insurance companies are gonna do. I'm just asking what this minister's gonna do. He is ultimately responsible for this system. It ultimately determines how tariffs are set and who competes with whom. Apparently he has also decided that it is simply made impossible for general practitioners, logopedists and physiotherapists to work together normally. I'm talking about something basic in health care like working together: making agreements on how to offer care in the region decently. The Minister will stop that because he is the system responsible. He has to take his own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u306	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u307	Mr President, you should let Mr Hijink talk a little bit, because every time he says that I am responsible for things and that sounds pretty good. Perhaps the best reasoning was given by Mr Hijink. If the parties are prepared to make administrative arrangements, we could indeed look at the way in which the general practitioners are working. Can we then learn lessons from the administrative arrangements in the paramedical sector? Big question mark! I don't know, but I do find it interesting. I would like to move towards that on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u308	Really rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u309	Yes. Finally, Mr President. If the Minister had listened, he would have heard that I had just said that it does not work for the general practitioners. The general practitioners themselves state that we can now discuss regional issues, but on the most crucial points we should not talk to each other, for example when it comes to tariffs or contacts with insurers. And that, of course, is the crux. Why is that being stopped? Because apparently the ACM is the boss in the end. I am not asking what all these other parties are going to do, I am asking what this minister's vision is. But I have already heard the answer: there is simply no such vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u310	So I do not want to throw the broad lines and administrative agreements into one piece, because I see a clear difference between them. So I have just repeatedly expressed my willingness to look at whether and what can be agreed on the basis of this NZa monitor with the paramedical groups. And that's what I want to do in early 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u311	The physiotherapists are a very important group. But those are the logopedists and the dietists who all have to do with this, of course. Thank you for the answer given by the Minister to the written questions, but I understand that these tariff agreements can be negotiated if they do not have significant market power and are therefore very small or if one can actually be seen as one company together. I would be very pleased if at least this could be clarified in the short term and if the Minister could communicate what the options are for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u312	As regards what can be done in the contracting process, the role of the ACM in it and the willingness of the ACM to provide information, I have already said that I would like to take that on board. If we come to administrative agreements with the paramedical sector, I will want to use and use that insight and attention to such opportunities for contracting from the ACM.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u313	The Minister talks about monitoring the NZa. That it's important, I share. I am also curious about the results, but at the same time we can already see that there are major problems. I mean, the minister can't close his ears to all those physiotherapists. This also applies to groups such as the logopedists and the dietists, but let us confine ourselves to those physiotherapists. They're right to scream murder and fire about the contracts they're forced to conclude with the insurance companies. It's not working now! We can rest assured of that, because those are the facts. That treatment index is like a stone on their stomachs, because it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u314	And your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u315	My question is whether the Minister also sees this and whether he is prepared to talk to insurers about these obvious signals to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u316	Now I've been trying to say it all so carefully. I have said that I would like to work towards administrative agreements, but that it is three or four to tango takes. I am one of those parties, but those insurers are also one of those parties. I said that the instrument of the treatment index is not an instrument of the government. It is an instrument of the contracting parties and it is very difficult to do something about something that two other parties have agreed to. I am now trying to state in detail that the subject has my very great attention and that I also want to work on it and that I would like to do so on the basis of the results of that monitor. That is what I really want to do, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u317	Yeah, I'm really hearing a repeat of the answers right now. There is also a second term. I think the Minister should now continue with the other questions that remain open. There is a third member of the government, and he must also be given the floor. So the Minister continues his speech. Minister, if I did count, that was your sixth answer in a series of ten. So there are, I believe, four answers to go. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u318	You count something different than me, but it's moving forward, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u319	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u320	In the direction of Mr Raemakers, who spoke about the pilot psychosocial care in cancer. How many people are taking part in this? Order of size 150 new patients per month. In total, it could be 2,500. I let you know, I say in the direction of Mr Raemakers. Business doctors can also draw patients' attention to the possibilities offered by the pilot. That's what I've been telling you. Then the question is, what do you do with the results of that pilot? I need to see the pilot results first to assess them, but I'll give them an appreciation and present it to your Chamber, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u321	Well, let's ask you a question about those numbers. I have here the first-line of 2018. Then Tineke Vos, the chairman of a working group on the drafting of a directive on this subject, said: the pilot takes two years and the estimate is that we can include about 8,000 patients. I hear and read 2,500 now. I think that's quite a difference. 8,000 patients could still participate earlier this year, and now it's 2,500. Can the Minister explain what that big difference is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u322	I can't. I really have to come back to that in writing. That may be a bit crazy, but if Mr Raemakers had asked the question differently, I could have gone into why it should be 8,000 or 2,000 or whatever, but I really have to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u323	If you come back to that, could you also consider the budget? I believe that's about 8 million. If there is a lower inflow or it is not sufficiently known by general practitioners or by company doctors, that would be a pity of course. That money is there, and we must use it. Can the Minister promise that he will do everything in his power to promote the awareness of the post-cancer psychosocial care pilot as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u324	I want to check that awareness of the pilot in general practitioners and also actively promote it. That's what I'm saying here. The difference between the 8,000 and 2,500 I have to go into more detail. If Mr Raemakers is asking for the available budget, I must look for it precisely. I'll let you know in writing. Mr. Chairman. I would like to go to what I find to be a precarious theme, the recovery operation in genital mutilation. Luckily there is an abbreviation for that, then it all sounds a bit more pleasing: vgv, women with genital mutilation. I use that abbreviation to talk about it, but of course it is a very precarious subject. Mrs Ploumen asked about the reimbursement of recovery operations, because this issue has been on the agenda since 2014. My predecessor made a commitment in 2014 that once plastic surgeons and gynecologists had completed the model protocol on reconstructive surgery after genital mutilation, the recovery operations could be brought under the Health Insurance Act. Medical care is covered by the Health Insurance Act anyway. You already knew that, but that's the beginning. So this medically necessary care, aimed at functional recovery and the removal of complaints, is reimbursed under the Health Insurance Act, and it remains so. At least four and a half years have passed since 2014 and it was mainly plastic surgeons and gynecologists who had to work. They did not agree on that model protocol, at least initially, because there was uncertainty and lack of scientific evidence as to the usefulness, effectiveness and impact of the interventions. For example, the British Association of Gynaecologists in 2015 did not recommend reconstructive surgery after genital mutilation, because there are indications of unacceptable complications, without conclusive evidence of the usefulness of the procedure. In the meantime, the gynecologists, in collaboration with obstetricians, general practitioners, plastic surgeons and Pharos, have drawn up a concept guidance on medical care for women and girls with genital mutilation. Occupational groups are expected to authorize and publish this guidance by the end of this year. So far, so good. In the draft guidance board it is concluded that the literature available regarding what reconstruction is, what the purpose is and what the possibilities are very small. There is weak evidence of pain reduction and there is a need for a good quality clinical trial to investigate the safety and effectiveness of reconstruction. Now that the occupational groups indicate this, it cannot be automatically assumed, on the basis of the guidance, that the interventions described are eligible for reimbursement under the Health Insurance Act. Therefore, as soon as the guidance is authorized by the end of this year, I will ask the Health Care Institute for its opinion on this. I would ask the Health Institute to carry out the assessment quickly, because I think that this discussion has actually been going on for too long. This medical care is aimed at restoring the functions of the external sexual organs as much as possible. In anticipation of the judgement of the Healthcare Institute, I cannot bring recovery operations under the Health Insurance Act nor under any other form of funding. I read it in writing, because I want to do it quite precisely. I'd like to give you another answer, but I can't get past this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u325	Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive answer. I'm gonna try to sum it up, because I see where the problem is, but I don't want to accept it yet. I note that the Minister says that it is already being reimbursed in the event of medical need. I also note that medical necessity is, for example, if due to genital mutilation your menstrual blood or your urine cannot drain properly and you are therefore susceptible to infections. Do I understand correctly that this now falls under medical need, so that women who come to a doctor with these complaints are now eligible for compensation for the recovery operation on the basis of the medical need?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u326	You can't be precise enough. If I say yes now, it has to be. I read in my own texts that this medical care is indeed aimed at restoring the functions of the external sexual organs as much as possible. This involves, for example, unhindered drain of urine and menstrual blood to prevent possible infections of the urinary tract, bladder and vagina. Treatment of scar tissue following genital mutilation, abscesses and pain symptoms is also covered by this medically necessary care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u327	That's one. I think it's good to establish that. The second step would then be that it is up to a doctor to assess, just as well as when you come up with other symptoms, or a recovery surgery than the proper therapy, so to speak. That's no different from other complaints. Thirdly, where exactly is the problem? Because if I read this right now and if we understand each other correctly, then those recovery operations are covered on those grounds and there may only be other complaints that are not covered. Sorry, Chairman. We're gonna have to go through this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u328	I fully agree with that. The model protocol for reconstructive surgery should therefore provide a handle for pain complaints and other complaints, for example. That's why I think it's important that professionals first agree on that. I hope so. Next, I need to see if that fits under the Health Insurance Act. I hope so. And if not, I'll have to see if there's any reason to organise another source of funding. I'm gonna have to think about that, too. The third is that some of the complaints, in part of the cases, may not be funded. I think that's all in order, so I'm not making a statement about that right now. I'd like to ask the Healthcare Institute first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u329	Thanks to the Minister. Finally. Can I understand the Minister in such a way that his intention is, as that Health Institute, that medical necessity and those protocols are in order, actually for as much as possible, if not all, women to come to a certain form of compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u330	No, I first need the advice of the Healthcare Institute to see if, and if so, which women or groups of women are eligible for compensation, either under the Health Insurance Act, or in any other way, or not at all. Those are the three possibilities I see. I also find this very annoying, because this is a theme that should have led to a result much earlier. I would also have liked to say in a different way and much easier, with a generous gesture, that we have to solve this because it has been going on for too long. But I need that guidance first and then the advice of the Healthcare Institute. And I'll put the socks in, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u331	Good. Mr Raemakers would like to ask another question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u332	It is incredibly complex and this issue has been going on for years. That is also the reason why my colleague Sjoerd Sjoerdsma and I have recently asked questions about this in Parliament. We just think this is a very important subject. Here's what I'm wondering. In 2014, another colleague of mine, Pia Dijkstra, already asked questions about this. The answer was indeed: the profession is now the first step. How come we're standing here four years later and we still don't know exactly what's going on? And can the Minister perhaps also outline what he, or at least "the Minister" in a state-law sense, has done over the past four years to ensure that there is some urgency in this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u333	I thought I already said they were two professions, to put it simply, the plastic surgeons and the gynecologists, who couldn't agree on that protocol. And then it's not like we're gonna go over it with a whip. This is a complicated discussion. I also understand very well that the professionals need time for that, so I don't want to put this away with professionals either. Some things just take time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u334	The last question about this, Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u335	I now read in reply to Ploumen's questions that there is actually not a good clinical trial and that there is a need for it. I read that a good clinical trial of good quality could help to investigate safety and effectiveness. I'm guessing that trial wasn't there four years ago either. I wonder why they didn't act on it before, so they would be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u336	I'm repeating myself now, Mr. Chairman. I need that guidance first. There is no doubt that further research will be needed afterwards, but I do not want to wait and see. With the guidance in hand, I will ask the Healthcare Institute to speed up an opinion to us so that I can give a final answer to this Chamber, but also to the women with genital mutilation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u337	Good. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u338	Another question from Mrs Ploumen was about the evidence of formal medical assistant. She asked to protect that title. The core of the BIG Act is to protect the professional title for the benefit of the patient, not for the benefit of the professional. That's the core of the BIG Act. That is why the BIG Act includes the logopedist or the dietician, but not the doctor's assistant. That doesn't affect the appreciation. I would like to conclude with Mrs Ploumen's words. But unlike a logopedist or a dietician, a doctor's assistant doesn't have his own authority because she works under the care of a doctor. This means that medical assistants are not eligible for BIG registration, simply because the BIG Act contains the protected professional qualifications of healthcare professionals who work independently or have their own powers; I do not know exactly how I can best express that. This does not affect the rating, but the BIG is not a quality stamp for the professional in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u339	One of the concerns of the medical assistants is not so much about their own status as about the risk of patients being assisted by a doctor's assistant who does not have the necessary training. I can imagine that the Minister thinks that this is a risk too. Let me come back to the reconstruction of these basic agreements. I have got the impression that there are all very smart, sensible men and women, and oilmen and creative minds, and really no sea too high... Then think of something else, Minister. If it doesn't fit in with that BIG registration, think of another way to protect that profession, so as not only to give the doctor's assistant himself a protected status but above all to the patient. That'll be my call.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u340	When it comes to the doctor's assistant, I think that the role for quality protection lies mainly with the Dutch Association of Doctors' Assistants and not through the BIG. And yet we will often get the question of whether the BIG can not be used as a quality registration tool. I'd like to think about that basic question, but I'm not ready to turn the BIG into a pick, a group of professionals at a group of professionals. The reason for the BIG is professional title protection for the patient, not for the professional. I don't want to get rid of that principle yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u341	When can we then see this fundamental reflection coming to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u342	It's principled, so I can take a little more time for it. I suggest that I put that on paper for you in the first half of 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u343	Fine. Are you almost done yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u344	I'm almost there, Mr. Chairman. Then we'll just skip a few speakers; I hope no one gets angry! Mrs Sazias spoke about the importance of an annual drug assessment for patients with polypharmacism, i.e. a high level of drug use. The possibility for an annual medication assessment already exists and is also included in the package. When I read between the lines, Mrs. Sazias says: you should advertise a lot more for that annual medication assessment. I'd like to give you my word on that. I will. I'm gonna think about the way I'm gonna have to think about it, but I'm gonna do it. Mr. President, I'm almost there. Mr Van der Staaij has asked whether it is recognised that the legalization of supply to coffee shops leads to the standardisation of drug use and how this can be prevented. It is not Mr van der Staaij's words or mine that there can be a normalization of drug use. You know that Mr Knottnerus was in charge of a committee that advised us about an experiment with a closed coffee shop chain. Knottnerus has also made various suggestions for the prevention of cannabis use. I take very good note of that. That is what you will see in the development of the experiment, because normalization of drug use cannot be so normal. Finally, Mr President. In the form of an amendment, MP Kuzu has proposed the elimination of its own risk. I would like to point out that the bill has recently been adopted to freeze its own risk at €385 per year until 2021. The system is based on a high degree of solidarity between people who use little care and those who receive a lot of care. That current level of €385 is, in the opinion of the cabinet in that overall picture, a responsible, balanced choice, albeit a political choice. I would advise against that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u345	The amendment in part No. 23 of the member Kuzu is not recommended. Finally, there are three other Members who would like to put a question to the Minister for Medical Care. Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u346	I also asked a question about the weed experiments. In the written answer we have read something about the planning: if it is right this year the legal treatment, for consultation the general measure of governance. I'm just curious how things are going and when we know about it, I don't need an exact date. Which municipalities are going to participate in these weed experiments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u347	I don't know by heart. The preparation is going well. In the preparation together with Mr Grapperhaus, I see constructive work being done. I would like to answer any question about planning, but then I have to go back to people who really know how to do that. I would like to inform Mrs Bergkamp in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u348	Mrs Bergkamp likes that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u349	It is quite right, but it is nice to hear that at least both directors have a lot of confidence in it and are probably also in conversation with municipalities and coffee shops and that the climate is so that they look forward to the weed experiments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u350	Well, my answer just might have been a little less perceptive than Mrs Bergkamp said. I said there's constructive work going on. That's really good. I would like to answer the question of planning in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u351	The Minister has just skipped a number of spokesmen and I was one of them, while I have asked a number of questions. I have received written answers and I would like to discuss them further with the Minister. First of all, the treatment of patients with long-term consciousness disorder. A report has been published on this subject, a worrying report: the concern for these people is not in order. In the written reply, the Minister deals mainly with treatment 25-plus, but it is also about an early diagnosis, it is about a mobile treatment team, it is about care after the first acute phase in the nursing home. There are all kinds of issues. There's no reference to that. I would like to include this in the report. I would ask the Minister to have more information on this in the near future, so that we can discuss it again at a later date. To be honest, this is a partial response to the questions I have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u352	I am well aware that the question has been answered briefly, perhaps too short. I do not do justice to the subject either, but I am prepared to go into it in greater detail and more concrete terms, perhaps on the basis of further questions put by Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u353	The Minister has also received a beautiful book, so who knows, maybe that will still provide inspiration in the autumn recess. My second point concerns the waste of care. The Minister referred to all kinds of waste in the care in his reply. For example, overtreatment, care that is not delivered in the right place, food waste. There's all kinds of waste in care. There's been a lot of whispering behind me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u354	Mrs Dik-Faber has the floor. Ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u355	Thank you. The waste that my group has referred to is about the waste of medicine and medicine, and the Minister does not go into that at all. Is he prepared to look, with health insurers, with manufacturers, where that waste can be reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u356	In the written reply, I mentioned this, albeit briefly. We made a green deal in the care sector very recently, last week, which, among other things, deals with this kind of waste. I would be happy to inform the Chamber more about this green deal so that I can clarify that it is not just a subject of years ago but from now on. Moreover, the issue of waste has also been mentioned in the main agreements, including the better-not-doing initiative. You can read that in the Task Force report. In addition, there are other initiatives aimed at preventing appropriate use and waste, thus promoting appropriate use and combating waste.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u357	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You saw me begging.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u358	I'm too flexible, I can tell.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u359	The green deal has indeed been closed. The main agreements have been concluded, but the subject I mentioned is not included. A supplier does not deliver 3 patches but 3 boxes of 100 patches. That's on the patient and the health insurance company pays, but ultimately it's on all of us. I'm just not okay with that happening. The health insurance company doesn't have a visual on it. Would the Minister like to have a conversation? What else can the health insurance company do? Can manufacturers who knowingly and knowingly make these mistakes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u360	The point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u361	... and deposit the bill with the patient, are not obliged to take back the products that have been wrongly delivered?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u362	I have regular consultations with the administrative parties that have concluded the main agreements. I would like to say to Mrs Dik-Faber that I will be presenting this issue of waste, so that it becomes clear that there is a waste in the main agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u363	Let me take a look at Mrs Ellemeet, because perhaps her question was also about this. No, that's not the case, I understand. I just wanted to stop by the Side effects center, Lareb. The Minister replied to the question of the 10% discount. He's given a description of the trial, but I'm a little concerned. We did not have any signs that they would be cut short. Of course, everyone thinks it is important that the monitoring of the side effects of medicines is in order. Is the Minister prepared to solve that problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u364	No. I'm sticking to the answer I gave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u365	That's not an answer. That's a description of the process: there's a discount of just under four tons, because the contribution of the Medicines Evaluation Board has become less. It's an important provision. I'm assuming the Minister thinks it's important, too. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether, at least for the coming year, an occasional solution can be found from the Ministry in order to maintain the continuity of the Lareb.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u366	Maybe I should explain after all. Part of the financing of Lareb is a kind of lump sum financing and part goes through assignments that are given. Those assignments can vary in scope. If I'm correct, the client has now informed Lareb that the assignment is getting smaller. The reason for this is that the client also has less budget. But the assignment to Lareb is thus described slightly smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u367	Good. Mrs Ellemeet, do you really need your answer for the second term, or can you also ask the question in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u368	I really need that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u369	Well, one more question. After that, the next ruler will really be next.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u370	I had raised my concerns about the VAT increase for medicines and tools. This VAT increase also applies to fruit and vegetables. The written replies only dealt with the impact of that increase in VAT and not with the impact of the increase in VAT on medicines and devices. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he shares these concerns. Does this increase not lead to the avoidance of care, to the withdrawal of medicines and, if necessary, tools? And in the longer term does that not lead to an increase in costs rather than profit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u371	I need to prepare myself for that answer. I don't have that ready right now. I would like to return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u372	That'll come back in the second term. I thank the Minister for his reply. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: We need some time for a change, but the floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u373	Mr. Chairman. Everyone has to be able to participate. That's my main motivation for doing this job here. But it's not self-evident for everyone to be involved in this. How important it is to participate, we often only notice when we suddenly find that we can no longer participate. That's why I brought this stone. It's a stray and not a stray. That is another moment of debate. I got this stray last week when I had a conversation with young people I met through the Stichting Schworfjongeren Nederland. With this stone, the young people ask for attention to the position of wandering youngsters in the Netherlands. I'd like to do the same. I'm wearing this stone for a few days. That can still be lifted. But we must realise that these young people often carry a burden on a whole part of their young lives. They're strays. They miss a lot of opportunities in life. They have no home, no housing. They often have no job, no income, and no education. That may have been caused by bad luck, by all kinds of setbacks in their youth, but it may also have been caused by stupid mistakes of their own. They'll admit it themselves. The fact is, they're on the sidelines. They are lost in an increasingly complex society. And yet we expect many of these young people to stand on their own feet when they are 18. You're 18, you're an adult, so stand on your own two feet. Those kids think it's ridiculous, and I get it very well when they say it. It is more than 12,000 young people who are involved; 12,400 young people. Those are numbers that scare you. They are all young people with their own talents and all young people who, like us, hope to have a happy and beautiful life. But when you talk to them, really, the tears jump in the eyes of their stories. In a wealthy and prosperous country such as the Netherlands, we are obliged to stand up for these young people and to solve the problem of those wandering youngsters once and for all. That's what I want to do. I am convinced that the solution to these young people's problems is usually not in laws, systems and rules at all, but that it is often a matter of common sense, listening to the story and helping to solve things. This also fits in with the story of colleague De Jonge: look at man, look at the younger and see if there are solutions, right through rules and laws. But we often make things difficult for those young people. If they don't have a letter address, they can shake it when it comes to benefits like a welfare allowance or care allowance, because you need an address for that. But if they sleep with a friend on the couch, they have no stable place to live and no right to amenities. A stable place of residence is needed for all kinds of assistance; for a benefit, but also for debt relief. In fact, we have organized it in the Netherlands in such a way that it is often said at local level: you need an address to get an address. That sounds a bit like a vicious circle. I think we should break it together sometime. We have so much power in the Netherlands, so many people with good talents at municipalities and aid workers; let's put our shoulders on it. We need a different kind of thinking and action; just very practical: we are going to help those young people. We need to look at an approach that focuses on what the younger person in his or her particular situation needs to get out of the shit. Sorry, Mr President, that is not a parliamentary language, I believe, but it is the language of those young people, and they know what it is about. In order to help these young people, I plan to start an action programme for young people in the Wandering Country in 2019 to help solve this problem. I'm going to talk to municipalities, to aid workers, to aid organisations and, of course, to wandering young people themselves. I'll keep talking to them, see how we can come up with practical solutions. I've been carrying that rock for a while now. That's getting pretty heavy. One more comment on that. Of course, in this programme of action, I will focus on the problem which Mrs Bergkamp asked for: young people who are at risk of falling between shore and ship, who may be eligible for shelter, social care, ggz or other forms of assistance, but who are not helped anywhere. Let us put our hands on it together; Chamber, Cabinet, but also local authorities and aid workers. We, as adults, have to help these young people. Let's do that, please. That was my kick-off. I'm gonna put that stone here before I drop it on some really expensive shoes. I'm moving on to my next topic, the ggz. Last summer, one of the four main agreements was agreed. By the way, did I put it in the right place?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u374	Yeah, I'm fine. Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u375	A very nice story from the Secretary of State, and I can wholeheartedly support it. I think it is very important that we provide comprehensive help for this group of young people. I was also glad to hear you talk about welfare. There are a lot of things involved, especially when you turn 18. This is also a very important subject for Minister De Jonge. We have the Youth Legislative Consultation on 12 November. Because we have three leaders for VWS, it would be very good for the integrity of youth policy if we could hear a little more about that action plan for young people from the WHO Youth on 12 November, so that we can look at it in its entirety. Can you, as a government, promise that you will be able to explain that plan before 12 November and that you may be there yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u376	This is kind of nice. I realize, by the way, that the story I just told provides an answer to a question that had not been asked, but I wanted to tell it anyway. And now Mr. Raemakers is gonna be all over me: come on with that plan, and in a month's time. That's really asking about it. We are going to talk about this, of course. This is also no surprise for colleague De Jonge. But we are also going to pass that stone on in the cabinet, because I would also like to go across the building with us, to Mr Van Ark, to bring that debt relief to the attention of the House. So that rock's gonna roam the Empire a little bit. But to come to that legislative consultation on 12 November with the first outline of a plan, I would almost say: then we do not take it seriously. Please let us give serious thought to what exactly should be in it, and let us first consult with municipalities and aid workers. Then we can come up with a serious proposal. I think Mr De Jonge is capable of a lot, but to put the first ideas and contours well aligned on 12 November is really asking about it. So I really want to do expectations management.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u377	Of course, I am not in favour of hasty solutions, but I am in favour of speaking in front of the House of Representatives. We also know that there is a discussion about extended youth aid. This also applies to young people between the ages of 18 and 23. Of course, sometimes they're stray youths. We know that the government's response to this will also come in the autumn. I mean, it's not necessarily meant as an attack. You are launching a very good plan here, and I am truly delighted to hear it. But I would also find it interesting if we really were to take action. We have a legislative youth meeting. So let's step over that shadow once in a while of everything being so sewn up. As far as I am concerned, Secretary of State Van Ark can also join on 12 November when it comes to young people in assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u378	Your point is clear. I just don't want to have a procedural meeting here about a discussion that is still on the way. So I'm gonna give the Secretary of State one more chance to respond, but otherwise, we're gonna do it in another place and at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u379	I really don't see it as an attack, but I think we should seriously look at what we can do. We are going to see what we can say about this on 12 November, but do not expect miracles. We're really taking this seriously. In my opinion, it is also the first time that a cabinet has said: the problem with the wandering youngsters is so big that we really have to do something with it in its entirety. Maybe we'll come up with a few first lines, but not much more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u380	It's a nice introduction from the Secretary of State. It's a nice symbol too, and it's a good thing that in this room you can bring an attribute to fill a story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u381	I'm not rolling it out, am I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u382	And he doesn't throw it, so that's okay. In April, I believe, the SP Group presented a research report to the Secretary of State on Wandering Young People, with a number of recommendations. One of these recommendations was also about the huge waiting times that young strays have to deal with. My question is whether he wants to include in the plans he is developing one by one of those recommendations that we made in April. I am referring in particular to the recommendation on waiting times, because that is what the young people are really running into.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u383	Thank you for your attention, I say to Mr Hijink. Of course, we are going to involve the SP's plan. And if we deviate from things, we'll back up why we do that. But, of course, that will be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u384	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u385	Mr. Chairman. I'd already made the leap to mental health. The adage also applies to me: everyone must be able to participate. As far as I am concerned, this is also reflected very well in the broad agreement that we concluded with a great many parties in July this year. That is the broadest ggz agreement ever, because not only has the specialist ggz co-signed, and all professional assistance on the ggz side, but also the social domain, as we call it here: the Federation Reception and the institutions for protected living have also been involved. That gives a very wide pallet to organizations that think along, precisely from the thought that we should not see man as a collection of laws, but as a person with questions. The main agreement ggz is based on quality: it has to be able to do better. The agreement also assumes that costs should be better controlled. Those two cases play a leading role in this. Better quality expresses itself in better listening to people. People have a question, and they need to be listened to seriously. We need to give people the right help in the right place. Mr Bruins also mentioned this. Better quality is also: don't wait long. Which brings me to the point of waiting lists. Questions have also been asked about this by Mrs Van den Berg. Waiting plays: the longer you have to wait, the greater the risk of all kinds of collateral damage in your life, such as job loss, relationship problems, debt etc. So I'm taking these waiting lists very seriously. I'd like to say a few things about it. The sector presented a plan for 2018-2019 right after the conclusion of the main agreement in the summer, which lists very concrete measures to address the waiting lists. I take that very seriously. One of these measures is better information and communication. Through Vektis, each provider must be able to see exactly what the waiting lists are like, not only for providers who have to refer to each other, but also for the clients who use them. At the end of this year that will have to be ready and to be seen via kozenindeggz.nl. That plan is also about care mediation and good solutions for people with, for example, autism or personality disorders. Those are two groups of people facing the longest waiting lists. Parties also want to make arrangements to help patients who are stuck through a multitude of complex care questions. In this context, agreements have been reached on regional perseverance. None of that is non-committal. The NZa checks with Vektis whether providers actually report the waiting times. The Healthcare Authority will check with health insurance companies to see if they are making the most of their efforts to address the waiting lists. The inspection shall make a similar round with the ggz providers. In turn, the inspection and the Healthcare Authority are in contact with each other when they pick up signals. That is, of course, all under my direction, as I say to Mrs van den Berg, who has asked questions about it. She asked, "When do you take your direction?" I think I have done so, with the main agreement, with all the agreements made with the sector and with the requests from my side towards the inspection and the Healthcare Authority to keep their finger on the pulse. I would also like to refer to Mr De Lange, who has asked very strongly for this in various debates. At the end of 2018, the NZa will report again on the state of play regarding waiting times. I also ask the parties to inform me about the implementation of their plan to further reduce those waiting lists. Of course, I'm going to send that information to the Chamber as well. I'm done with the point about waiting times and I see an interrupter standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u386	Let me first compliment the Secretary of State for his very involved story about wandering youngsters. That's what hit us all. But I would like to ask some additional questions about the ggz. It is, of course, nice that so many parties have signed up, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State why he thinks it will work now, because plans have been made every time. First it would be 1 January, then it would be 1 July and every time it is said: unfortunately we have not succeeded. The Secretary of State calls Vektis, but they should have applied to Vektis from 1 January, so I do not see that as a new fact. So I would like to know from the Secretary of State why he has confidence in it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u387	Let me start with the final point: Vektis. I think it's the first time that we can get an insight into the waiting lists through one single system, Vektis. We have never had that in the Netherlands, not even in 2017, when an appointment was made with the ggz about countering the waiting lists and treating people within the threshold standards. Even then there was really no good view of the waiting lists. Vektis is the only way to get that. The parties made the agreement to deliver to Vektis on 1 January and I agree with Mrs Van den Berg that it is a pity and frustrating that they have not all done so. In the meantime, the vast majority have. We are talking about all the institutions and the vast majority of the free-standing people, so that vision is going to be really broad. That'll give me confidence. The providers in the ggz will at least keep each other sharp, because they have to be very transparent about the waiting lists they have. This then offers the inspection on the one hand and the Healthcare Authority on the other hand tools to engage in the conversation with the healthcare providers on the one hand and the health insurers on the other. When it comes to quality, that conversation takes place with the healthcare providers, because I myself think that waiting lists are also an element of quality. If you have very long waiting lists and you can't be proven to refer them to your neighbors, you can be addressed to them. The Healthcare Authority also has the role to point out to health insurers their duty of care, for example in the case of contracting. This is also an important element in the main agreement. If Mrs Van den Berg asks me if I have any confidence that things are going better, then I say yes. If she asks me if I can give you a date on which the waiting lists are within the threshold, then I can't. I'm confident we're making a move in the right direction, but it's a huge job. I've seen how complicated the sector is. Probably Mrs. Van den Berg knew that before I did. All the parties sitting at the table, looking each other in the eye and expressing confidence in each other nevertheless give me the confidence that at least we are moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u388	In conclusion, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u389	The Secretary of State just said he's taking the lead. I do not see that word in the answer to the questions. It only says the word "support." I would therefore like to know a little bit more about the Secretary of State than what he has written.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u390	I can repeat my speech on the ggz. I would just like to mention two specific elements. I refer to the fact that the inspection in the Netherlands will inspect healthcare providers in the ggz, that she will pay attention to this during an inspection round or separately, that she will look at waiting lists and take that as a quality criterion. That's new, and that's what happened at my request. I think it's called taking direction. I would also like to mention the Healthcare Authority which appeals to the health insurance companies for their duty of care. If a healthcare provider says that he is at his budget ceiling, that he actually wants to provide more care, that he also has the professionals available for it but does not get more budget from the health insurance provider, then the health insurance provider should be able to demonstrate why that healthcare provider does not have any additional resources to do so. That way we can get rid of waiting lists. That's what happened on my initiative. I will not sit on the chair of the NZa, or on that of the inspection, but I will encourage them to make that move. I think that's how we divided the responsibilities in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u391	Good. The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u392	In the context of the ggz, I would add that additional training places are also being organised in the ggz, especially in order to eliminate those waiting lists. That's also something the government takes control of. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mrs Van den Berg. There will be additional training places, even EUR 20 million extra next year, specifically targeted at those professions that we consider necessary to get rid of the waiting lists. This leads to a minimum of 350 additional training places in 2019. Mr. Chairman. I welcome the broad agreement, because the great gain is that we see fewer people than before in boxes and boxes, and in laws and rules, but that we see people as people. We see them as people who may have debts, who may have relationship problems, who may have addiction and who may have mental illness. We regard them as a whole. That is why I welcome the broad support of that agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u393	Mr Hijink has another question about mental health care?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u394	I don't know if the Secretary of State is done with the ggz?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u395	I would like to say something about stigmas, but I do not know if the question is about them. I see I can go on. That's good mind-reading. In the light of people's view as a whole, I wanted to say that it is a good thing that when someone with a mental illness reports to a ggz institution with a request for help, the broad context is considered. For example, it also looks at whether someone is able to go to work. That's often the best medicine for someone. Or what about housing? A stable housing situation can give rest. But also: is a stigma in the way? A stigma that a person wears, if a person is examined in a manner of speaking or is not received hot in his neighborhood, can be hugely obstructive for a healing process. We want people who have a question of care that is so difficult that treatment in an institution is necessary, of course, to continue to offer that space. But besides that, we also like it when people can stay in their own environment, preferably with compassionate and compassionate neighbors and neighbors. If that's possible, we'd like to offer all the space for that. A campaign aimed at countering stigmas can contribute to this. I would therefore like to announce that such a campaign will take place next year in the context of the he-campaigns that are already underway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u396	Actually, it's about something completely different, but it doesn't matter. It's about the ggz. I got caught this morning by this picture in the paper. Maybe the Secretary of State saw the photo himself. This is the list man. The list man is really a man we all have to respect very much. It's a health care provider, he works in the ggz, and he's only doing lists on the goddamn day. They have done so, because in the ggz up to sometimes 40% of the time is spent on bureaucracy. What did they say in this institution? They said, "You know what, you're only gonna do that on your own all day, all week." So that's what he's gonna do. He also calls himself "the bureaucracy that has become flesh." It is of course a bad story that this kind of thing happens, but the good news is that this institution will participate in a project to delete rules as of 1 January. I noticed a very small sentence in that article. A minister spokesperson says: "If this experiment becomes a success, it may lead to legislative and regulatory changes." If the deletion of those rules works, I'm curious to know which laws we're going to amend here, so that it's going to apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u397	I would like to hear from Mr Hijink which spokesperson of VWS that was.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u398	It's right there. I can tell you that. It's in the paper. Then we can say it here, too. That's Mrs. Leonne Gartz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u399	Oh, that's a very good one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u400	Then it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u401	I meet her once in a while. In all care areas for which we are responsible, we are working to reduce the regulatory burden. We have also agreed, in the context of the reduction of regulatory pressure, that we should select the good examples. Once we have done so, I do not rule out the possibility of certain best practices being translated into regulation. I don't know what those are right now, because that action is still going on. But I would like to make a firm promise to Mr Hijink that we will inform him of this when there is an eye on it. At the beginning of December we have a general discussion on the ggz. I don't know if that's too soon, but then I'll do my best to get more light on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u402	Finalizing, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u403	That's good. There's a reason I'm asking this question. One of the registrations about which a lot of complaints are made that you can also read in this article from the inspection. It means you have to report what someone is doing every 15 minutes. Quite a lot of other regulatory pressure comes naturally from the insurers. Then, of course, we have a problem with your colleague, Mr Bruins, who says very harshly here every time that the system should not be called into question. On the one hand, it is said that we are going to amend laws and regulations if it is necessary to have fewer rules. On the other hand, a steel door is completely locked because the system cannot be adjusted. Then how are we gonna fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u404	However, a reform of the system is quite different from the fact that, as a result of brilliant ideas to reduce regulatory pressure, we are going to change the rules. The door must always be open to that. At least that door is always open to Mr Bruins for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u405	The Secretary of State continues his speech on another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u406	In the slipstream of the ggz it has to do with it, but it is not quite the same thing, I would just like to say that we are also in the process of rolling out the multi-annual programme of protected living and social care. Many regions are very enthusiastic about this. I see that healthcare providers, professionals, people from the client representation and clients themselves and also municipalities are very enthusiastic about this. I meet nice examples on my work visits. I also see MPs going to work. I think it's such a nice idea to go to work together. Then we can ask each other critically. So that's an outstretched hand for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u407	It has to be through the procedural meeting, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u408	You read my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u409	I'm just making a meaningful suggestion. I am sure it will be on the agenda for the next procedural meeting, Mr President. Mr. Chairman. When we talk about people with confused behavior, of course, there has been a whole history of that. Mrs Van den Berg also drew attention to this. The Switch team has formally stopped work. There's been a lot going on. Municipalities, housing corporations, police, Public Prosecutor's Office, emergency workers, general practitioners, district teams; a very wide range of people is involved and knows how to find each other. That's what I think the big profit is all about. There are people who had never seen each other before. They're working together now. I'm also working on one national number to report confused behavior. That must then return to a good local country. I want to report to the Chamber at the beginning of next year on how things stand. Mr. Chairman. As far as the Ihbti young people are concerned, I would like to say that everyone is in on it, as far as I am concerned. Recently I had impressive conversations with young people from this target group, Ihbti-young people. Those are talented, brave young people who stand up for themselves and others. They are young people who encounter many thresholds in their lives. It's very simple. Some people told me: I just have to come out of the closet several times. You don't even realize that sometimes, but it's always things I don't have to think about. They're all thresholds. They're very vulnerable and often bullied. They're even victims of violence. They get a lot of negative reactions. The number of suicide attempts is not for nothing among this target group, this group of young people, four and a half times greater than among other young people. We can't accept that. This is also mentioned in the coalition agreement. I am working with these young people on an agenda to see how we can improve their situation, in healthcare, in school, but also in police and justice. Together with Movisie and various lhbti organisations, such as COC, but also Maruf, for example, and 113 Suicide Prevention and the Ministry of Education, we are now working on a multi-annual project to shape this. It is about the renewed website everyoneisanders.nl. We support them with the young people's experience stories. We increase the knowledge among young people, in their environment, with their parents and with professionals in care and education. Also through the regional approach suicide prevention, there is broad focus on the risks faced by Ihbti young people. They must be able to be themselves and participate in society. I am committed to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u410	I am, of course, very pleased with that and I am also pleased that this Secretary of State states that education is very important in this respect. We regularly read, and also see in studies, that there are still schools that do not provide sexual information about sexual diversity. How does this Secretary of State feel about this and is he prepared to deal with it with the Minister of Education for once? It is so important for the self-acceptance that schools also pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u411	I think that is a logical question from Mrs Bergkamp and I would like to promise her that I will discuss it with the Minister for Education, but with due regard for his responsibility. I'm not gonna decide how education does that here. But I'd be happy to admit that I'm going to have that conversation with him. I'm coming up on another part of my wallet. This is about prevention and health protection; healthy life. This also applies, of course: everyone must be able to participate. I would really like to go all the way here about the National Prevention Agreement. I also read newspapers and think: so, people already know a lot. Not mine. I would also like to answer questions from Mrs Akerboom, who are all very close to this, but I cannot do that. I also do this out of respect for the parties, all these organisations, who I am still talking to in order to reach an agreement in the areas on which we want to make agreements. I can see that it has a tremendous strength and that there is a movement in which we are talking with so many organisations from all over the social domain to see if we can give prevention a real boost. We are talking about sports associations, sports associations, municipalities, health insurance companies, healthcare organisations, patient organisations and civil society organisations of all kinds of plumage. It is very wide and I see that a whole movement has really started. But I think Mrs Ploumen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u412	Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u413	A brief question, Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing the Secretary of State is working on this, but I do object to the trial he's now setting out. We read in the paper proposals. They're coming from somewhere. We are, of course, being asked about it and want to form an opinion on it. But the Secretary of State won't say anything about it, out of respect for the parties at the table. I would like to tell him that a little more respect for the 150 people in Parliament would really be on this point. Because we must also be able to debate it. I find it very uncomfortable that he approaches this process and hopes that he will reconsider it so that we can talk about it quickly and my colleagues can also get answers to their questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u414	Of course I have the deepest respect for the 150 Members of Parliament, but we have had this conversation here before. We are concluding a prevention agreement involving not only the Empire, the ministries that lead it, but also a broad variety of civil society organisations that come up with ideas. Then we organised it in the Netherlands in such a way that we let that process do its job and let these organisations launch proposals to contribute to a healthier Netherlands. Then, if I have included the overall package in an agreement and signed everyone and committed myself to taking it seriously and implementing it, then there is a moment when the House of Representatives says: we want to find something of it. Some of these measures will be subject to legislation. We've had this conversation here several times. I understand the dilemma, but I really wouldn't choose towards all these civil society organisations if I were here to confirm or deny what is now in the newspaper. I am not going to say: this is true and that is not true and shall we talk about it now? These organisations cannot talk, but they are sitting at the table with me to make a coherent package. Above all, it is a coherent package, where the balance sheet is often very narrow. If we take care of all kinds of parts here, we disrupt the whole process, we lose balance and we lose parties that are still at the table either on one side or on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u415	One request to the Secretary of State: please tell those parties at that table that it is not a choice to launch all kinds of test balloons either. Keep it together there, because the respect you ask for will not be given to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u416	But I'm not Tita Wizard who can say... and everything stands still. There are organisations all together and I say over and over again: shall we treat each other carefully and not leak? You know how this goes with leaking and I really do not know who launches things in the press. I'm not going to confirm or deny that things are true. There are things in the newspaper and they will have read or made up journalists, but I think Mrs Ploumen knows, certainly from her previous position, that there is also a chance that someone will be very enthusiastic about going to the newspaper when you sit at the table with a very wide variety of civil society organisations. Probably do so with a certain interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u417	When exactly does the Secretary of State intend to send that prevention agreement to the Chamber? Is that before or after he makes that deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u418	That's what I'm gonna do after I close it. In previous debates on this subject, I said that the Chamber did not discharge its own responsibility. I have also made this reservation to civil society organisations: the House of Representatives will find something there too. I think I should say to the Chamber: this is the result of a careful process in which civil society organisations bring things into play, and this is the contribution of the Empire. It's a balanced package and when the Chamber says, "You can fuck off; we're gonna change that" then the Chamber does. That's a risk. Anyway, that's not a threat. Then there is only the risk that the party or the party will say: if the coherence of the package is disturbed, we will run away. Maybe Mrs. Agema will say, "I don't care." I would regret that, but I do not think the world would perish from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u419	Of course, I am not waiting for such a terrible patronage agreement, but I am well aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u420	Then I won't send it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u421	But of course it is a disgrace of the Lower House of the States-General. We are the highest office here! Surely you are not going to conclude an agreement with all kinds of people in the field on far-reaching consequences if a democratic majority has not yet given its opinion? Surely you're going to send the concept to the Chamber first, so that the Chamber can file all those motions again? Motions, of which the Secretary of State said earlier, save them until that agreement is reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u422	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u423	The suggestion that I should like to sneak Parliament out of this Chamber, I would prefer to sway linea recta.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u424	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's not an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u425	That is my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u426	But it is not possible for the Secretary of State to take the Lower House of States-General out of play by first concluding an agreement with the field. Then we should certainly discuss it here. There have been all kinds of people here who have tabled all kinds of motions for resolutions on this agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u427	The Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u428	I think I had the exact same debate with Mrs Agema a few months ago. Maybe we could read it again in the Acts and duplicate it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u429	Mr President, the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u430	No, the Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u431	No, Mr. Chairman. Ho!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u432	No, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u433	This is about reality again. I've never posted this interruption before, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u434	Nor was it said that it was an interruption. The Secretary of State said...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u435	No, I've never raised this issue before, Mr. Chairman. In none of the Acts of the House of Representatives of the States-General...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u436	Mrs. Agema! The Secretary of State said that you had a debate on this earlier and not that you had the same interruption. The Secretary of State has now explained his position four times. Let's leave it at that. The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u437	Mr. Chairman. The National Prevention Agreement, as you all probably know, focuses on three themes: smoking, overweight and problematic alcohol consumption. Those three cases are part of the biggest disease nuisances. The urgency is great, so I would like to underline it. The impact of smoking, overweight and problematic alcohol consumption on society is enormous if we consider that 20 000 people die every year as a result of smoking. Overweight stands at two in terms of the cause of cardiovascular diseases. It also causes 40% of cases of type 2 diabetes. Alcohol causes about 3,000 cases of cancer every year that we know is causal, and it is the main supplier of addiction care. By starting smoking, alcohol and overweight, we can make progress in this cabinet period. On top of all the good initiatives that are already in place, we can quickly take important steps to improve the health of Dutch people. From all Dutch people, I add, because it is extremely important that all Dutch people can contribute to this, wherever they live and from any level of education and income. We all know that there are health differences associated with this. People with practical training and lower incomes live in health less long than those with higher incomes and higher, more theoretical education. They also die seven years earlier. I find these differences unacceptable, and I think the whole Chamber thinks so. That's why I think lifestyle adjustments should be aimed at all people. And we must realise that getting rid of addiction is extremely difficult. As far as I am concerned, this agreement is an attempt to help people. When we talk about smoking, eight out of ten smokers prefer to quit smoking. With the National Prevention Agreement, we want to support people and make healthy choices easier. We have debated this on several occasions. There has been a general consultation on prevention. I am looking at Mr Veldman and Mrs Dik, who have crossed swords with others, Mr Van der Staaij. You give it to everyone to enjoy life as healthyly as possible, to be able to participate as long as possible. I look forward to sending the agreement to the Chamber in November and then talking to you about it. I wanted to switch to the point of drugs and Mr Van der Staaij's questions, but I think Mrs Ploumen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u438	Yes, but she has already asked a question about the prevention agreement, so I do not really want to allow it now. There's gonna be a second term. The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u439	I naturally share the concerns expressed by Mr Van der Staaij about the harmful effects of drugs. The fight against drugs takes a long time and it is extremely important to always respond to new developments. For example, the 2018 European drug report shows that there is a relatively high use of xtc and of amphetamines in the Netherlands. To outline another new development, we regularly encounter large amounts of empty nitrous gas patterns on the street. I informed the Chamber this summer that we are busy with prevention, focusing on nitrous gas patterns, in schools and in municipalities. As far as drugs are concerned, I have commissioned an investigation into the areas where extra efforts are desirable and necessary in our drug prevention policy. There is a letter from the previous Secretary of State with a number of concrete actions. I've given orders to see if there's anything else we can do on top of that. At the beginning of 2019, I would like to report to the Chamber on this. Mr. Chairman. Prevention is, of course, better than cure. That's what we're doing with the state vaccination program.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u440	Mrs Bergkamp on the point that has just been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u441	Yes, chairman, I'm sorry. It's gonna be the end of it, but I don't want to go through the final points either. The last point was about drugs. The Secretary of State says he's gonna do another piece of work. We think it is important that what the Secretary of State proposes is also evidence-based. We already know a lot. Sometimes there are measures. The previous Secretary of State has also come up with many measures. But then you also have to take the time to see what works, what doesn't, and what might backfire.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u442	I've already told you I've ordered you to see if we can get a shovel on top of it, see if there's anything else we can do. It may well be that this yields a lean harvest, because we are already doing quite a lot. But when we do things, I would like to say to Mrs Bergkamp that if I come up with proposals, they are evidence-based.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u443	Then I'd do it in a different order. Then I would say: first research and then decide if you want to get on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u444	Yeah, but that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u445	Okay, then it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u446	I was at the National Vaccination Program. This will keep serious infectious diseases out of the door. Mrs Sazias called attention to this. I have given written answers to questions about pneumococcal, for example. It is the success of the program and of all the parents who respond to it. At the same time, this success is also a threat. I'd like to illustrate that. The diseases measles, red dog and polio have almost disappeared in the Netherlands. This seems to reduce the sense of urgency for some parents to have their children vaccinated. In addition, you see more and more conflicting information on the social media. That can make it pretty complicated to weigh the information. I'd like to support parents in that. Soon I will send a letter to the Chamber about what we want to do about this, about increasing the vaccination rate. I am thinking of opportunities for conversations between parents and professionals, for example in youth health care, as well as more demand-oriented and interactive communication. Mr. Chairman. I come to the point unintentionally getting pregnant. This is also an element of prevention and several spokesmen Mrs Bergkamp, Mrs Ploumen, Mrs Ellemeet, Mr Van der Staaij and others have paid attention to this. One in five women in the Netherlands gets pregnant unintentionally. The cabinet has therefore also decided to invest in this matter: 35 million to prevent that more. It is about preventing unintended pregnancies and then providing appropriate support to women who happen to them. I have already informed your Chamber of the seven-point plan drawn up by the field parties. I think that is a very special coalition. Those are parties that have different conceptions of life. They have formed a broad coalition and have presented united plans that we are about to work out. An important part of this is the selection help calls. This was also the subject of the debate in the first term of the Chamber. I want to be clear about that. As far as I am concerned, selection aids must meet objective quality criteria. I am going to set these criteria in the short term. So not the field parties, but me. They'll help us figure it out, but the cabinet's gonna determine it. I also understand that the Chamber wants to talk about this. Of course, we're going to arrange for the Chamber to see it in advance. We are going to set those quality criteria so that all aid workers are clear about what they have to meet in order to be eligible for funding for 2019. People who knock on the door for help should be able to trust that they get the right medical information and that they also get independent information. Questions have also been asked about the setting-up of surveillance services, and I am in discussion with our inspection. Because if you have set quality standards with each other, they have to be verifiable and you have to be able to check whether organisations that are eligible for funding are seriously dealing with them. Freedom of choice for women must be and always remain the starting point. I'd like to put a big line on that. The fact that parties operate from different missions or values does not have to stand in the way of quality. In fact, I'm committed to the fact that there's something to choose. But it must be clear which values an organization has. An organisation must be completely transparent about this in its communication. These values should never be used as targets and should not be steering. I say that, and I said it in response to the written questions put by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Ploumen. For example, I can give you a few examples of minimum training and training requirements for employees and volunteers and that providers should be able to demonstrate that they themselves offer a chain of prevention support to care or that they cooperate well with and refer to others. And I do not rule out the fact that, based on quality criteria that we are going to establish, organisations must at least adapt their way of working. The same goes for Siriz, I say. I don't rule out that being the result. I will send these criteria to the Chamber as soon as possible, at least before 1 December. That was also requested by the MPs. In the same letter, I would also like to mention Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Ploumen's proposal on a national telephone number. This has also been specifically requested in amendments. My response to your amendment is: I fully understand your wish that there should be a national telephone number. Let me tell you that we are also talking about this at the moment with the field parties I have just mentioned. I find it a little difficult when I am told by amendment to say: we are going to do it at that time and through that organisation. I think that's very far-reaching control by the Chamber. And I do not think that this is right for the discussions I am having with field parties at the moment. I'm kind of sympathetic to it. But let me tell you this: I want to look very seriously at how we can organise an optimal infrastructure with each other. That could be a national phone number, but it could also be another vehicle, with other ways of contact. I will report that to the Chamber in the same letter before 1 December. In my view, the votes on the amendments and the budget after that time are still open. But given how the flag is now attached and given the fact that I'm conducting consultations, I think it's premature. That is why I would like to discourage the amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u447	I see a number of Members who would like to say something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u448	I have one final piece on this subject. It might be okay if I put that out. After that, the MPs can go free.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u449	Do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u450	Mr President, in recent years the emphasis has been on funding organisations per year. I think we're coming out of a situation up to this year that nobody thought was ideal. It happened a bit on an ad hoc basis, with some money added and some money added for organizations. I've chosen a change in this. We are going to arrange this differently, we are going to make multiannual agreements on the basis of objective quality criteria. I want to achieve structural funding of aid and support itself on the basis of those criteria, with supervision of the inspection. Let's not forget why we're actually doing this. We all do it for one reason. Any woman who gets pregnant unintentionally should be able to make the best, balanced decision for herself about what she's going to do. If necessary, she should be able to rely on the right independent guidance, whatever decision she makes. Mr President, this is what I want to say on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u451	I note that the amendment to item No. 11, by Mr Ploumen and Mr Ellemeet, are currently being advised against judgment. I am giving Members the opportunity to say something about this, but only in two instances, not in three. Because it's getting really late. Mrs. Ellemeet was first on the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u452	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he thinks that an organisation co-financed by an open anti-abortion organisation can provide independent choice support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u453	I think this is an understandable question. I have outlined how I want to work with organisations that are eligible for funding in the future. We are in the process of formulating these criteria. These must lead to the provision of independent assistance. I really want to leave it at that, because I find it a little complicated to name all kinds of cross-links with other organisations when the question is asked how all this is to be completed. 'Cause then we could get a whole world out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u454	The Secretary of State finds it complicated to include these links. That really scares me, because there are these two organisations here, where one openly conducts an anti-abortion lobby while the other is supposed to provide independent choice aid. I believe that, on the basis of developments over the last few years, we can see that precisely this connection, which entangled these two organisations, financially, administratively, legally, has led to factually incorrect information and to the direction of women seeking independent assistance in choosing. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he can think again about my question and whether he might reconsider his answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u455	Of course, I think very carefully about that. I have stated in the written reply that, as far as I am concerned, it should not be the case, as I say again, that there is an intervention in dialogue, that someone is being pushed up a certain direction and that people are being sent into the woods on the basis of incorrect medical information, which I find almost even worse. As far as I am concerned, that is not the issue. That is also the future, the basis for funding. I think that should give Mrs Ellemeet sufficient comfort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u456	I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he can rule out here and now that organisations go along with things for the subsidy that adhere to values that run counter to the legal framework. Can he rule that out now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u457	Let me tell you more: as far as I am concerned, it is part of the objective quality criteria that organisations operate in full compliance with legislation, including according to the Waz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u458	Does he agree with me that, on this basis, an organization such as Siriz is no longer eligible for funding?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u459	I totally disagree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u460	The Secretary of State says a number of things we're happy with. The objective quality criteria should have been there much earlier; we will soon be able to see them. But one question really triggers me and I'm not reassured by the answers the Secretary of State gave. For example, it says in Siriz: "They want to give the woman multiple ways out of the emergency rather than just an abortion." My question to the Secretary of State is whether he agrees with D66 that a mission, an objective or the values of an organisation should never lead to an independent information and guidance of women.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u461	If I understand Mrs Bergkamp's question correctly, I think she is even quoting literally Article 5.2a of the Law on Abrupting Pregnancy. It says that more choices should be discussed with the woman who asks for help. If Mrs Bergkamp then raises the question as to whether the Secretary of State applies the principle of non-direction when awarding subsidies, that the choice lies entirely with women and that the aid is independent, then the answer to all these questions is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u462	It says the word "extremely" in it. But just as precisely my question: does the Secretary of State agree that the mission, the aim of the organisation, should not have any influence, so never ever, when it comes to independent information and that it should never lead to the direction of a woman in a particular direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u463	If I were to deny this, I would deny everything I said before. So the answer to that question is: the mission must be clear.Fiom's mission will be different from Siriz's and must be clearly communicated, but an organization's mission and values must not in any way lead to direction in a conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u464	Maybe the other side of the case, too. Because does this approach with the objective quality criteria mean that it is actually contrary to the legal framework if you offer help in unintended pregnancy and only give a list of abortion clinics? Because there must be multiple possibilities to shape this freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u465	At the very least, that seems to alter the article 5.2a of the Law on Abrupting Pregnancy, which I have just mentioned. I also propose that we subsidise on the basis of objective quality criteria and then give the IGJ tools to test them on the basis of these criteria. So the answer to that is also a definite yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u466	That is a good thing. I do have a question about the moment when the subsidy framework is set, because I hear the Secretary of State say that this has yet to be established and is also decisive for the funding in 2019. Isn't that a very short day for all the organisations involved in this to have clarity about the funding and to set up their organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u467	I fully agree with Mr Van der Staaij. As far as I am concerned, it is not an objective to establish it on 1 December either, as far as I am concerned, rather earlier. We often see, when it comes to granting subsidies, that it is only shortly known what amounts are available and how they are distributed, but it is absolutely not my intention to go as late as possible towards Christmas vacation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u468	I think the Secretary of State is trying to draw a square circle. You cannot say that the underlying values of an organisation should not affect the assistance provided. You might put that with the Salvation Army, if the goals, the values of an organization correspond to the goal pursued by the government, namely the reception of people. Of course, something else is going on here. Here, the underlying values of the organisation, in this case Siriz, are contrary to the goal that we as a government want to pursue, namely independent assistance to women who need it. Of course, we can't combine that. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's views on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u469	I am not here as an ambassador or something like Siriz, but what I understand from Siriz's methods is that women who come to seek help there are indeed outlined the different alternatives. In practice, it also leads to the end of some of the people who have brought a request for help to Siriz at an abortion clinic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u470	That will undoubtedly happen, but the purpose of the organisation, the value........................................................................................................................................................... That's crystal clear, everybody can see that. Then you cannot say that the underlying value will not affect or be allowed to affect the assistance that comes out of it, because it is an automatism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u471	I have already said a few times that an organisation must be transparent about its values. Even if someone goes there for help, the GP refers to whether someone gets there via the Internet themselves, it has to be clear: this is an organisation that works from these values. As far as I am concerned, they may also highlight this in a conversation, such as 'know that we work from these values'. I have always said about this in the written answer to the parliamentary questions, and I say it again today, that this should not then be a reason for any direction in the discussion. That's not a square circle. Read the different chat conversations. Then you see that different options are highlighted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u472	It is very good to hear Mr Blokhuis say that he is going to share the terms of the grant with the Chamber so that the Chamber can see what information needs to be provided. At the same time, of course, the Secretary of State sees that there is some unrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u473	I had a hunch like that, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u474	I get that. My question is more technical. Does "sharing" mean not only "participating" but actually talking about it with the Chamber, or is it a unilateral action by the Secretary of State to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u475	I think that's what the Chamber itself is about. I can imagine that, when a subsidy framework is drawn up, it is basically said 'this is a cabinet matter', but this is such a delicate matter that I can imagine that the Chamber would like to find some of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u476	In my opinion, it would help if the Secretary of State simply promised that he would talk to the Chamber about this. But I can imagine that the Secretary of State wants to make haste with the conditions, as he just said to Mr Van der Staaij. But we must be able to find a way in which we can share it with each other in the short term and then come to a decision quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u477	All the willingness to discuss it further with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u478	The Secretary of State continues his speech. How many topics...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u479	I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. I've got a few little things left. One more thing about the Caribbean Netherlands. I think it is good to say something about this, even if it is only because Mrs Diertens is always calling attention to it. In the Caribbean part of our country we have responsibility for the care in relation to the three municipalities there. At the beginning of next year, I hope to be back. I see a lot of people there who are passionate about caring for the islands. Curative care is quite in order in my observation there. Good progress is being made. In the coming period, we will continue to work on prevention and youth care. There's still a lot to do. I would like to say once again that there will be a sports and prevention agreement for the three islands, including, for example, agreements on healthy meals for children and more sports facilities. With this we want to reach as many residents as possible and let as many people as possible participate there. I'm investing 1 million euros in that. Joining in is extremely important and especially for children who cannot live at home, including in the Caribbean. That is why I would also like to say here that the age of children in foster care is being extended to 21 years. Mrs Dik and Mr Slootweg have called for attention to be paid to social service. Social service is involved by helping others participate. This contributes to strengthening an inclusive society. After the summer, the first youngsters started working with test gardens, in projects such as Rescue Brigade: an experience for life! That's a nice catchy title. The first group of young people goes to work in 41 projects. This should give us good ingredients to create a beautiful concept that can start after the summer of 2019. Mr President, I would like to conclude... But I'm sure Mrs. Van den Berg is standing by the interrupting microphone for a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u480	Yeah, but we also have a second term. Is it really super-urgent, Mrs. Van den Berg?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u481	The Secretary of State just said something about the BES islands. He also answered a question from me about that. I would like to ask a very brief question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u482	Yeah, that's good. At least as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u483	As far as I'm concerned, too. But that's the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u484	The Secretary of State writes that in spring 2019 Bonaire will start a pilot at three general practitioners' posts for a mammography. I was wondering why that's a pilot. We have plenty of experience here. What is the reason why this cannot be accessible equally to all women there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u485	That is a logical question from Mrs van den Berg, but for all three parts of this research it is necessary to look at how it can be organised on the three islands. The scale and expertise are very different and with that also how you can do it most effectively. The fact is that we will certainly agree that the population is entitled to join the level of the Netherlands as soon as possible. That's what I'm trying to do. The pilot's aim is to see if this is the best way to deal with this mammography on the islands. Mr President, I would like to conclude with a few words about 75 years of freedom. This year's celebration will begin. First we remember the liberation of the southern Netherlands. The rest of the Netherlands and the Dutch East Indies follow a year later. The Caribbean parts of the Kingdom have also experienced the consequences of the war. To celebrate freedom, I make 3.5 million euros available to, among other things, the National Committee, the patch for the Indian and Moluccan communities and the Foundation 75 years of freedom. That money, the 3.5 million, is on top of the 3 million for the memory centers. I will add a further amount to be determined for educational projects. I am also saying this in particular in the direction of Mr Slootweg, who has tabled an amendment which, as far as I am concerned, is very sympathetic. This is the same opinion as that of the other amendment I was commenting on. I like it, but I do not know what proposals are going to be made for education and whether we are making sense to say that we have the 6 tonnes available for that. There is an amount reserved in the budget. I believe that, just before the vote on the VWS budget, we can also clarify the extent to which it is desirable to add that additional 6 tonnes. Unless Mr Slootweg says: we have to put that there anyway, even if there are no good plans behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u486	What is your verdict on the motion at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u487	I leave the judgment to the Chamber, but I would like to propose that we give the latest information on education and monuments plans just before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u488	The amendment in part No. 13 by Mr Slootweg gets 'judgement chamber'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u489	At least I want to take away one thing: it is not about spending money to spend money. I think it is very important for the young generation too to experience the value of 75 years of freedom that day. That is what we consider so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u490	Yeah, that's a bond. I would like to continue to talk about this with Mr Slootweg. Finally, Mr President. The freedom we've been living in for 75 years is invaluable to everyone. We cherish them and protect them. Freedom must be maintained. Together, we must ensure that everyone feels involved in our society and that people do not turn away from it because they feel that they do not matter. Together, we can create a society in which we have an eye for all people, a society in which we are based on equality and in which we help people who do not come out themselves. Together, we can create an inclusive society in which everyone can participate, whoever you are, wherever you live. Only then will we reap the full benefits of 75 years of freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u491	Thank you, Secretary of State. This brings us to the end of the answer given by the cabinet in the first term. I'll suspend for two minutes. We'll start with the second term after that. In view of the time available, I would like to call on Members not to make full use of the time available. It's up to you, but otherwise it's gonna be really late.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u492	We need the second term from the Chamber. I call Mrs Agema, on behalf of the PVV. I assume the other rulers are on their way. They've been warned, too. There's the Secretary of State. Mrs Agema, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u493	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The budget debate was always the debate of the year I was looking forward to. It was the moment when we all expressed our views and visions on how care should be regulated and organised. I was reminded tonight of former ministers Klink and Schippers. In their time, too, many questions were answered in writing, but when they began to speak, they spent 45 minutes explaining their views and their views on how the care and the system should be organized; how Minister Schippers saw it. But I don't see that in these ministers. I do not see any idea in the Minister for Medical Care as to how the healthcare system should be organised. I do not see any opinion from the VWS Minister on how care for the elderly should be organised or on how the finances should be regulated. If we do make such a contribution, for example, when I make a contribution to the'stairs up, down the stairs' mechanism, then there will be an asshole answer that'step up' is really the same as what I mean; demography-based windows, based on wage and price adjustments. But what happens to "stairs" is left out. What happens to "strap off" we have seen over the past period and that is not nice. That's no way to bury. It can't be that if it's "stairs up," the windows are lapped and if it's "stairs down," it's only happening at eye level with a disabled person. It can't be that a disabled person can have a cat when "step up" but that the cat has to leave "step down" because the litter box is no longer changed. Those are essential things. You can't bury on the basis of "stairs up, down the stairs." Here we must determine what we think of quality, how we believe that care should be organised, not on the basis of economic fluctuations or on the basis of political considerations. I have argued extensively why I believe that the law on the financial review of quality standards is not right. You can't bury that way. It cannot be that Bussemaker had a shortage in the nursing and nursing homes of 12,000 people, that Rutte I supplemented those 12,000 people, that under Rutte II the gap became 37,000 people and that this cabinet should add 42,000 more. Those fluctuations, they can't be. You have to estimate on the basis of demographic growth, based on the quality we demand, based on wage and price adjustments. That is my view. But I'm not getting a reaction to it. Dotjespolitics, Mr President, dotjespolitics! That's what these gentlemen stand for. What's it doing in the media? What can I make an action plan for? What can I have a flashy item about on TV? But what do they stand for? Where they want to go with the care? What are their views on the system, on care and on how care for the elderly is organised? I don't know. And I'd been looking forward to it, because they've been able to think about it for a while. They've been there for a while. And if that doesn't work out tonight, next year. Next year, we'll just listen to what the Health Minister thinks of the system. After all, it's sanding: on the one hand, market forces and on the other hand, budget ceilings, and an insurer sitting in between them? Something doesn't add up, does it? There's got to be something better for that, right? I am not saying that the system must be overboard, but the system is not perfect either. And when it comes to care for the elderly, we miss the nursing homes. We just miss them. Every week we read the reports about older people getting into trouble, getting lost and sometimes even being found dead. And then we won't be able to manage with the adage: closing the nursing homes wanted the elderly themselves? We can see holes everywhere in those first-line beds, in the places where these people can't go anymore and in the police, where 10% of the people who are picked off the street because they're confused or demented can't get rid of anything? Those people used to have a place to go, and they can't do it anymore. What about the carers? "They'll have to fix it!" We see in recent research that they don't; not because they don't want to, but because they just can't get to it anymore. You have to have an opinion on that. We have made a mistake with the cuts in domestic aid and home care. Why don't I get a view? What is the VWS Minister's view on how care for the elderly should be regulated? What is the Minister for Medical Care's view on how the system should be organised? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u494	Thank you, Mrs Agema. Mr Rutte has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u495	Mr. Chairman. It is late, but that does not relieve us of the duty to complete this budgetary procedure in a proper and substantive way. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, I spoke in detail about demographic developments in this country, about what this does to the number of chronically ill patients, especially chronically ill elderly people, and about what solutions are possible, especially now. These may be a guiding factor for the future, but I believe that they should be available in the very short term for any chronic patient who is ill, especially when it comes to COPD and heart failure. I must say that the reactions I've received are quite heartwarming. For example, I received a great deal of support from the Patient Federation for this development. The Patient Federation itself indicates that it is also very busy with the theme of heart failure, for example, one of the two examples I gave. I saw in a state of the Patient Federation some numbers I was looking forward to. There are currently 227,000 patients with heart failure and 40,000 new patients are added per year, but only 1,200 patients currently have access to smart care at home. This is partly due to the fact that it is offered too little. At the moment, 40% of hospitals are already doing this. This also shows that enormous steps can still be taken on the patient's side, namely asking for this concern and knowing that it is there. Anyway, we can't do it all at once. Let's make sure that this smart care comes for everyone. Let's make sure that anyone who can benefit from it can use it, and that in three years' time. And if we can do it for COPD patients and for patients with heart failure, then we can also trust that care will be so different that for many other types of chronic care this kind of solution will come closer to patients. In order to strengthen that power, I have the next motion, in which I have incorporated something I have heard the Minister of Medical Care say. He said that, in the context of the main agreements, he had a monitor made by the NZa on the contract, so that we can see that steps are being taken in which care is being contracted. As far as I am concerned, there are also solutions in the area of smart care at home. My motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas smart care at home for patients with COPD and heart failure contributes more to their quality of life than regular outpatient visits, and avoids unwanted emergency withdrawals;]] [[noting that at present this care is available to only a small proportion of these patients, although it is part of the regular care and can therefore be financed;]] [[Considers that this smart care should be available to all patients with COPD and heart failure at home within three years;]] [[Whereas the main agreements on the right care in the right place, in which smart care plays a crucial role at home, and it has also been agreed that healthcare providers and health insurers will accelerate the scaling-up of innovations, e-health applications and digitally supported care when they are effective and make an important contribution to the quality of life of patients;]] [[calls on the government to closely monitor the implementation of the agreements made, to remain in dialogue with interested parties, and to explicitly pay attention to the implementation of smart care at home for patients with COPD and heart failure and, where possible, for other chronic diseases in the Nictiz and NIVEL e-health monitor,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Arno Rutte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u496	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the directors for their reply, both on paper and tonight here in the House of Representatives. There has been a lot of work done in a short time, human work I can say, so not carried out by a robot. But that robots can also do fantastic work, I discussed here yesterday. The robot is an example of smart care in long-term care, an example of how smart care can make care that can never be replaced by a device even more personal. It is precisely for this reason that the VVD believes that we really need to do everything we can to make the forms of smart care that work, which ensure more quality of life, available to many more people much faster. This means that we can no longer accept that organisations allow their self-interest to prevail when it comes to embedding this kind of care in their regular process. Therefore, the innovation impulse for disability care and technology challenge, but under conditions. Mr. Chairman. I also asked the Minister in my first term what additional steps he could take to speed up that embedding in the regular process. In his reply, I read that he is already doing a lot of work on this and in what way he is already encouraging and facilitating it, but I asked very explicitly what else could be done. I will continue to ask that question in the coming period. Mr. Chairman. Then the attention to a large group of people in our country who go head-under without proper care and support in the hectic of everyday life, the group of people with a slight intellectual disability. In his reply, the Minister indicated that there was attention to this group in the various programmes, but it was limited. He also says that a lot is happening in a lot of different domains. I share that with the Minister, but at the same time I see that there is still much to gain in the connection, in cooperation between these areas. I have therefore chosen to take out one issue in which I have often encountered a problem in recent weeks: work for people with a slight intellectual disability. Work is very valuable for anyone who wants to work, for several reasons, but people with a slight intellectual disability sometimes do not end up in a suitable place. Sometimes they go to the daily business, while perhaps they would come to their senses much better in a sheltered workplace or the other way around. It seems to me very nice if the Minister would like to get to work on that particular point. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a large group of people with a slightly intellectual disability in the Netherlands who struggle to participate fully independently in society;]] [[Whereas work for many people is very valuable for several reasons, and it is therefore essential that people be able to participate in the labour market as they wish;]] [[Whereas many people with a slightly intellectual disability work in day-use or sheltered workplaces, but do not always end up in the most appropriate place for them;]] [[Whereas the government is currently working on a "Broad Offensive" to help more people with disabilities to work;]] [[calls on the government to identify ways in which people can be promoted to the most appropriate place for them and to join the "Wide Offensive,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hermans and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u497	Mr. Chairman. As I said yesterday, smart care is also the smart combination of knowledge. That's where there's still a profit to be made. We talked about it in the first period: to get knowledge from the neighborhood in the nursing home and knowledge from the nursing home in the neighborhood. Not by taking over each other's work but by exchanging experiences to improve care for people and to prepare the move to the nursing home, which is often such a sad moment, as well as possible, for the future resident but of course also for his or her family. Mrs Ellemeet will be tabling a motion for this. I'd like to sign it. Mr. Chairman. Finally. The 2019 budget contains many ambitions and plans. In addition, the Minister has presented some eleven programmes which are also packed with plans. These programmes also announce a large number of research and explorations, so there is likely to be much more of ideas and actions coming our way. We will all follow them with interest. In the meantime, we are counting on the Minister to work seriously on smart care, so that, as I repeat yesterday's words, the examples of Henny, Corien, Marieke and Daphne will not continue to be good examples but will become the rule. The VVD will do everything in the coming years and will follow that well. And where there is something we can do, we will certainly strengthen it. For that we are very happy to work with everyone who wants to participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u498	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. Mrs Ellemeet has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u499	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. We've had a lot of exchanges. I would like to thank the directors and certainly their official support for all the answers. However, not all the questions that my group had have yet been resolved. Hence the next motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the responsibility and choice for carrying out or possibly breaking off pregnancy lies with the woman who is unintentionally pregnant;]] [[Whereas, in the case of questions and considerations concerning their unintended pregnancy, women should be able to rely on independent and non-directive assistance;]] [[Calls on the Government to establish criteria for public funding for organisations providing choice-making assistance to unintentional pregnant women, including at least that these organisations are administratively, financially or legally bound to organisations operating an anti-abortion lobby;]] [[calls on the Government to indicate how this will be monitored and to inform the Court as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the quality of care for the elderly can be further improved both in nursing homes and at home;]] [[Considers that closer cooperation between the district team, the district nurse and the nursing home can improve the transition from home to the nursing home;]] [[Considers that closer cooperation between the district team, the district nurse and the nursing home enhances the knowledge and experience of the caregivers involved, including nurses and caregivers in the nursing home at home and in the nursing home;]] [[calls on the Government to examine what hinders the exchange of knowledge between the nursing home and the neighbourhood, which prevents cooperation on vulnerable elderly people from being more frequent and to resolve the problems encountered,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that almost half of all Dutch suffer from a chronic disease, and that despite medication this has a significant negative impact on their quality of life;]] [[noting that the lifestyle program Turn Diabetes2 To demonstrate that people with type 2 diabetes by adjusting their lifestyle under professional guidance no or little medication is required;]] [[Considering that for other chronic diseases, the development of lifestyle-based programmes is highly desirable and can lead to substantial cost savings;]] [[Whereas the development of lifestyle medicine calls for public funding;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a separate thematic research programme aimed at the further development of lifestyle medicine, including substantial funding, and to ensure this in a structural manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that knowledge of sexually transmitted diseases (soas) and condoms among young people in the Netherlands shows a decreasing trend;]] [[noting that the number of STD infections among young people is not decreasing further, and even increasing among certain target groups;]] [[Considering that there was a national Free Safe Campaign until 2011, drawing young people's attention to the importance of contraception;]] [[Whereas it is important that young people learn about pleasant and safe sex with mutual consent;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[identify an innovative and effective way of increasing young people's knowledge of the importance of the use of contraception through a public campaign;]] [[make a plan for a broad campaign that highlights the positive aspects of (safe) sex;]] [[and inform the Chamber before 1 March 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that physiotherapists experience high workload and financial pressure due to low rates, not raised for 13 years, and the treatment index applied by health insurers;]] [[Considering that patients do not always receive the required number of treatments from a physiotherapist due to the treatment index, while they are part of their supplementary insurance, and that physiotherapists suffer from the treatment index negative consequences of treating patients who are entitled to more treatments through their supplementary policies than according to the treatment index;]] [[Calls on the Minister to discuss with the health insurers the great dissatisfaction with physiotherapy contracts;]] [[invites the government also to have Zorginstituut Nederland examine, on the basis of existing quality information, the consequences of the contracting on the quality of physiotherapy for the patient,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the lack of digital transmission of medical information between healthcare providers leads to a high level of unnecessary administrative burdens and unnecessary medical risks for patients;]] [[considers that patients are entitled to reliable medical information transmission between their healthcare providers;]] [[considers that consent of patients, like the other processing grounds in the GDPR, is a condition for sharing medical information;]] [[considers that the earning model of major ICT suppliers should be made subordinate to the medical interest;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that medical information between healthcare providers can be exchanged throughout the healthcare chain, by directing the steps to be taken by interested parties and facilitating the implementation of standards, with a view to legally anchoring the exchange of data and the application of standards for 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-26]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Hermans. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-27]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-28]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet, Mr Renkema, Mr Diertens, Mr Raemakers and Mr Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-29]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet, Mr Kerstens and Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-30]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u500	Mr. Chairman. As my motions also point out, there are still a lot of issues that we can discuss in the coming year. Above all, I hope that we will achieve results and that we will be side by side with them. Sometimes we differ, but I certainly hope that in the end we will all be able to put the importance of care first and find each other in it often enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u501	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. Mrs van den Berg has the floor on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u502	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the rulers and the support for answering all the questions. Mr. Chairman. We indicated yesterday that care should be available, accessible and affordable. I would like to come back to that. We are pleased to hear that, at our request, a capacity study among dentists will be available at the beginning of 2019, i.e. for the Spring Note. We also like to hear that the minister has the position of the dietists, the physiotherapists and the logopedists on his retina. Today we have also been able to read the joyful message that Menzis is prepared to look at the treatment index. We look forward to seeing developments in this respect. We're worried about the ggz. In replying to the questions, the Secretary of State said that he could not promise that he would actually enforce the availability of quality indicators in the ggz by 2020. We have just found, with the waiting times, that the ggz does not have a really good track record in achieving results, so we will keep following this closely. But we are very concerned about this and ask the Secretary of State to take full control of it. ICT and the GDPR have passed several times. We say two birds with one stone. On the one hand, people have a right, also given patient safety, that information is accurate and well transmitted. On the other hand, we can see that a lot of people are leaving care because they are completely fed up with all the administration and inefficient systems. That is why we have signed a motion from D66. Then we have two more motions of our own. Last year we advocated transparency in relation to policies. We are pleased that the first steps have been taken, but we would like to take the next steps. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that care should be available, affordable and accessible;]] [[considers, therefore, that it is important for insured persons to be clear and transparent as to the policy offerings of insurers;]] [[noting that the Minister has carried out a zero measurement showing that the policy offer is unnecessarily increased by additional packaging for the same product from groups, by means of collections, labels and powers of attorneys;]] [[having noted that the Minister has discussed with insurers that they will reduce the policy offer and that a measurement of progress will be carried out in 2020;]] [[noting that the maximum reduction in collectivity will be reduced to 5% by 2020;]] [[noting that market changes can be achieved by 2020;]] [[calls on the government to start a monitor or insurers at the beginning of 2020 to take the right steps,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u503	It is then clear that we find accessibility of care, especially in the region, a major concern. We have said it many times: care in the region is also very important to keep the region viable. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that maintaining solidarity in care also requires that it does not matter for available, accessible and affordable care in which part of the Netherlands the insured person resides;]] [[Whereas the presence of care has a major impact on the viability of a region;]] [[Calls on the Government to encourage the members of Co-operative Top Clinical Hospitals, the Co-operative General Hospitals and Health Insurance in the regions to discuss how to organise care provision in such a way that care is provided close to the patient where possible (close to where it can be done, far away);]] [[In addition, in the annual progress reports of "right care in the right place" the government calls for specific attention to be paid to the actions taken in the (shrink) regions to identify the needs of care (now and for the next 10 years) and what this means for the provision of care, and what actions have been taken in the regions to ensure that care needs and the provision of care remain well aligned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u504	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u505	Thank you, Mrs Van den Berg. I call Mr Slootweg, also on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u506	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Ministers and Secretary of State, for the answers and commitments. It's now October 19th. It's a small fact, but it's my wife's birthday today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u507	Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u508	Thank you. I also think I'll keep it a little short. I had a great story, but I think we all want to go home a little bit. I received an e-mail this morning from a pecked employee of the Buma/Stemra who indicated that it could never be the intention that film nights for lonely elderly people could not be organized. This says, I think, something about the Buma/Stemra, because the actions of this agency seem to lead municipalities to advise local residents' initiatives not to organise such a film night. But it also says, I think, something about the knowledge of municipalities and local initiatives that think that this is not possible. Knowledge about rules, about what needs to be done and, perhaps even more importantly, what can be done is very important not to freeze as a society. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in many municipalities associations, community centers, churches and care cooperatives are committed to vulnerable elderly people;]] [[noting that some initiatives are frustrated by unnecessary rules;]] [[Whereas a supporting function, such as a helpdesk, can help these organisations in the mess of rules and regulations;]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible, in consultation with the VNG, to strengthen the knowledge infrastructure for residents' initiatives, including the extension of the helpdesk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Slootweg and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u509	Mr. Chairman. We are seeing more and more forms of care coming across different laws. Fortunately, the question of care is increasingly leading. This can lead to wonderful initiatives, but on the other hand there is often a structure, a structure that is sometimes considered more important than what residents, employees or family want. Some laws, for example the Wmo, allow people to easily have the right to take over that support themselves. In the Wlz, for example, we do not know this right. I would also like to see this opportunity emerge within long-term care. In doing so, I would like to see a map of what can constitute blockages. The CDA thinks that that gives people more the opportunity to actually make it their home. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a number of health care institutions have lost sight of human standards;]] [[noting that the WMO currently has a legal right to challenge;]] [[Whereas more and more residents want to organise tailor-made care;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of a "right to challenge" within Wlz-funded care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Slootweg, Mr Bergkamp and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u510	Mr President, I would like to thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u511	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. Mr Hijink has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u512	This bell is running very fast, Mr. President! I'm a little short on time, so I'm gonna file the motions right away. It'll be obvious what I mean by that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that its own risk is unfair because people who are unlucky to be ill are financially disadvantaged by their own risk;]] [[noting that their own risk may lead to the abandonment of care for financial reasons;]] [[considers that the withdrawal of medical care necessary for financial reasons is, by definition, undesirable;]] [[calls on the government to reduce its own risk by €195 and to finance this by not Maximising the income-dependent contribution to an income of €55,923,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that caregivers face non-cost-covering tariffs in many sectors;]] [[noting that there is usually no fair negotiation process on tariffs, as caregivers are not allowed to cooperate in these negotiations;]] [[calls on the government to realise that there are real rates everywhere in care;]] [[calls on the Government to facilitate cooperation and consultation on tariffs and contract terms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-36]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hijink and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u513	Finally, my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research shows that people with severe multiple constraints have a perspective on development and development, but that in practice caregivers and supervisors do not have sufficient time to do so;]] [[noting that people with severe multiple restrictions often only receive basic care, because further care and activities are not allowed;]] [[points out that people with severe multiple restrictions are entitled to and should be given full and quality of life;]] [[Calls on the Government to engage with the VGN in order to find solutions for additional hours of care and support for the development of people with severe multiple disabilities, in addition to the basic care provided, and to inform the Chamber about this at the beginning of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u514	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in recent years the focus in hospital care has been on competition rather than cooperation and that hospitals, based on the Competition Act, are not allowed to make agreements in many areas;]] [[believes that not competition but cooperation can improve care;]] [[considers that both the hospital sector and the patient benefit from a strong network of large and smaller hospitals that work well together;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage and facilitate cooperation by removing any obstacles,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet aims to maximise the number of physical therapy and practice therapy in COPD;]] [[considers that the maximum number of treatments in chronic patients creates an undesirable threshold for access to care;]] [[Calls on the Government not to maximise the number of physiotherapy and practice therapy treatments for COPD patients and to finance this from the downgrading of 500 million as budgeted for 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet aims to remove heavy paracetamol, vitamins and minerals from the basic package;]] [[noting that this results in additional costs for chronically ill and elderly people;]] [[considers that this is not in line with the cabinet's objective of reducing the accumulation of care costs for people;]] [[Calls on the Government to keep heavy paracetamol, vitamins and minerals in the basic package and to finance this from the under-scoring of 500 million as budgeted for 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Gerven, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-39]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-40]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u515	Mr President, I would like to conclude. The debate tonight with the Minister and the Cabinet was very disappointing. We see that the system is cracking and that a lot of things are going wrong. I pointed out the consequences in hospital care, for example obstetrics at the Bethesda hospital in Hoogenveen, which is being demolished. And the minister watches, has the helm or the steering wheel in his hands to adjust, but looks away and dives away. If the market fails, the government must act. Unfortunately, this cabinet doesn't. So we have to note that this cabinet is failing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u516	Thank you, Mr. Van Gerven. I now turn to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u517	Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank the directors for their comprehensive response and, of course, for their support, which I believe has all worked very hard, as well as the Bureau for Legislation, which has also played an important role in all the amendments. Thank you on behalf of our group. I've got three motions. I'll start with the first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control,]] [[noting that, through a so-called open house construction, parties meeting the quality criteria can register and conclude a multi-annual contract with the public authorities;]] [[considers that part of these quality requirements should in any case be that the choice is for women and should not be directed, and that the mission and objectives of an organisation should not affect this;]] [[calls on the Government to include this in the quality requirements and to send them to the Chamber by 1 December at the latest;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up quality standards in such a way that they fall within the scope of the Quality Complaints and Disputes Care Act, so that the Health and Youth Inspectorate can monitor the quality of the assistance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u518	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also have a question on this subject. We are very curious when it comes to Siriz whether they are legally, administratively and/or financially connected, intertwined with the VBOK. I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the disability sector there are nice residential care arrangements but that there is still much room for improvement as shown by the report published in April 2018 as well as at home of the SCP;]] [[considers that new forms of residential care arrangements will also benefit disabled people;]] [[Considering that in January 2019 the Ministry of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations, Health; Welfare and Sports and Eachen (in) will launch an investigation into the problem of establishing residential care arrangements for people with disabilities;]] [[calls on the government to explicitly address the specific characteristics of this target group, in particular in the areas of home ownership, income, frequent re-indications for young people with disabilities and the ageing of disabled people, and to inform the Chamber for the Budget Treatment of Health, Welfare and Sport 2020 about the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u519	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also have a question about this. There is an innovation scheme for residential care arrangements for the elderly in the Langer Home programme. I would like to ask the Minister whether he can see if something like this could be suitable for the disabled sector. That is a supplementary question from me. Then my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an ergotherapist can help elderly people to direct their own lives because the treatment of an ergotherapist is aimed at re-executing activities in which the client feels limited, and learning to deal with those limitations in execution;]] [[Considers that such a method, which can be summarised in the phrase "helping yourself," has great added value and can play a role in staying at home for longer;]] [[whereas the occupational therapist has been in the basic package for ten hours a year since 2005, but the care demand has changed since 2005, also in view of demographic developments;]] [[noting that SEO Economic Research in a 2014 study concludes that, in addition to benefits for the patient itself, the ergotherapist also brings social benefits;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Healthcare Institute to assess whether the current maximum number of treatment hours is still in line with the current care demand and the objective of enabling people to stay at home for as long as possible, taking into account in particular the role that the ergotherapist can play in the context of proper care in the right place and the substitution effects that an ergotherapist can achieve,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u520	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I indicated in my speech, people really need to see improvements. Whether that's grandma in the nursing home, the neighborhood nurse with her endless forms, the parents of a handicapped child who have to answer for themselves time and again, the woman with a life-wide limitation who can't be caught in a single health bill or, as my colleague from the SP said, the so-called 'listjesman'. I think it is important that we now move from action programmes to people. I have noticed that these rulers have a lot of passion and drive to make it a real beauty. We'll meet again in a year's time to see if we've actually reached people with those actions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u521	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. I call Mr Raemakers. He also speaks for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u522	Thank you, Mr President. I think we've had a good debate. I would also like to thank the directors and the support staff very much. I have three motions. The first motion concerns transparency. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the objective is to have outcome information available for 50% of the disease burden by 2022;]] [[noting that differences between patients, such as age, gender or multiple conditions, may lead to different outcomes;]] [[noting that some results can only be seen or measured in the long term;]] [[Considers that differentiation based on patient characteristics and a long-term perspective provides valuable information for patients who can help them make an appropriate choice;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the "Emergency Care" programme differentiation based on patient characteristics and the long-term effects of treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Raemakers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u523	Mr President, my second motion concerns digitisation and the digital exchange of data. In the debate, I asked Minister Bruins if he was prepared to make such a master plan. The Minister's answer was very clear. He said a master plan really goes too far. We have just as it is called "stuck the heads together," and we have come with CDA and VVD to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Court has previously expressed its views on the Minister's approach to a modern electronic exchange of medical information between and between institutions;]] [[whereas the Minister indicated in his letter of 15 October 2018 that he was prepared to take more direction, but did not yet know exactly how to shape it;]] [[whereas KPMG identifies several bottlenecks in the report on "Outcome targets in maps," but notes in particular the lack of an integrated approach;]] [[whereas the Information Board in its response to the KPMG report indicates that it is important to achieve greater coherence, but that this does not (yet) directly result in a master plan, in which all measures return in an integral way;]] [[Notes that the current electronic information exchange of medical data between and between institutions is still not sufficiently modern;]] [[calls on the Minister not only to report on his direction and on the possibilities of legal obligations, but also on his overall vision and direction and to inform the Chamber before 1 April 2019;]] [[calls on the Minister to also indicate the concrete improvement of the exchange of information he intends to achieve in 2019, 2020 and subsequent years and how he is always directing it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Raemakers, Mr Van den Berg and Mr Arno Rutte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u524	I'll take this as a compliment. If you're with three parties, each party wants to bring in something. That's why it couldn't be shorter, unfortunately. My final motion concerns a very important subject, genital mutilation. This evening, too, we had another debate on the matter and earlier written questions were asked about it. We'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2014 the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, in response to parliamentary questions by member Pia Dijkstra, undertook to bring recovery operations of genital mutilation under the Health Insurance Act as soon as the protocol on reconstructive surgery and female genital mutilation was completed;]] [[Considering that the draft "Medical Care for Women and Girls with Genital Mutilation (FGV)" guideline states that there is currently little literature available on what is reconstruction, what is the purpose and what are the possibilities and that there is therefore weak evidence of pain reduction and a need for a clinical trial of good quality;]] [[noting that, once the guidance is authorised by the end of this year, the Minister will ask the Health Institute for an assessment and request that it be carried out quickly;]] [[calls on the Minister to also ask the Healthcare Institute, in consultation with the professional groups, to provide advice on how to organise a clinical trial in order to clarify the safety and effectiveness of reconstruction for the future, and how to connect with existing research programmes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Raemakers and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u525	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u526	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. I call Mrs Ploumen of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u527	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. I have three motions. Motion one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas if you are unintendedly pregnant, it is important to have easy and accessible access to information and to be able to ask questions;]] [[noting that there are currently several places for women to go;]] [[Whereas in Germany, among others, there is a central information point which has been widely publicised by means of a public campaign;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a single central information point for questions of unwanted pregnancy and to make it widely known by means of a public campaign,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u528	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of recovery operations in genital mutilation. We've been talking about it for years. It is high time we had a solution and therefore a motion supported by almost the entire opposition. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas treatment of symptoms resulting from genital mutilation is reimbursed but not repaired;]] [[believes that genital mutilation is a violation of human rights;]] [[Calls on the Government to take a decision on the reimbursement of recovery operations in the event of genital mutilation by 2019 at the latest;]] [[calls on the Government to temporarily pay recovery operations for 2019 from grants for women who are unable to pay for an operation even though they are eligible for it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Ploumen, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Sazias, Mr Agema, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u529	Mr. Chairman. My third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that doctors' assistants have been given more and more tasks and are indispensable in general practitioners' practice;]] [[Whereas it is important for patients to be able to be sure that they are dealing with a competent and competent doctor's assistant;]] [[calls on the Government to protect the title of doctor's assistant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Sazias, Mr Van Gerven and Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u530	Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question addressed to State Secretary Blokhuis. He himself opened the debate here tonight on the prevention agreement, which we have not yet seen and which we cannot talk about, unfortunately. I would like to know from him what the minimum requirements he has laid down before the various parties have entered into negotiations. What does he want with that package? And when does he think it's enough? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u531	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I call Mr Kerstens, also on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u532	Thank you, Mr President. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the National Ombudsman, as well as the Vice-President of the General Court and the Director of the Social and Cultural Planning Office, have jointly sounded the alarm clock about the lack of access to the care of vulnerable people, as a result of which they are (threatened to) between shore and ship;]] [[noting that despite previous signals (such as the National Ombudsman's Care for Citizens Report of 14 May 2018), insufficient action has been taken;]] [[considers that this is necessary;]] [[calls on the Government to take concrete action as urgently as possible to address effectively the problems identified (taking into account, inter alia, the recommendations and suggestions made by the National Ombudsman), to inform the Court of Justice of their exact content by the end of this year and subsequently to inform it of the progress made every six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the ambition set out in the Working in Care Action Programme to reduce staff shortages in care to (or near) zero is as necessary as it is ambitious;]] [[Whereas this is one of the most important tasks of care for the coming years;]] [[Considering that the government considers that improving salaries and addressing the workload in healthcare (according to employees' main reasons for leaving care) is the responsibility of social partners and employers in the region;]] [[Whereas this does not sufficiently safeguard the necessary progress on these two issues for achieving the ambition set out in the action programme;]] [[calls on the Government to step up its guidance on, in particular, progress on these two issues as well as to inform the Court twice a year on how this is taking place and its effects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the AMvB "real prices in home care" has a positive impact on the establishment of decent rates in home care;]] [[noting that there is and continues to be a great deal of discussion in the field of youth aid as to whether or not real prices are currently being paid;]] [[Whereas, here too, regulation will clarify what rates are not real or real;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how (possibly, for parts of the youth assistance, by means of regulations such as those referred to above) the creation of real rates in youth aid can be promoted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Kerstens, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Hijink, Mr Sazias and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-51]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-52]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u533	One more comment, Mr President. The people who work in the care sector call the high workload and the low salaries as the main reasons for leaving care prematurely. As far as the latter is concerned, the Minister said this evening in a small debate with me that the people in the care are actually wrong, that it is all okay with those low salaries; nothing to complain about. On Facebook, these comments have led to more than 600 comments in a few hours. I will not repeat them verbatim here, if only because the President will probably call me to order or my words will be deleted from the Acts. But let me put it this way: the people who work in the care sector do not recognize themselves in the words of the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u534	Thank you, Mr. Christmas. Mrs Dik-Faber has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u535	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors and to all the officials who have worked so hard for all the answers. I would also like to thank the directors for their positive opinions on the amendments: the amendment on lifestyle medicine that I tabled together with Mrs Ellemeet, but also the amendment on free registration for children conceived with the help of a donor. Those are really important amendments and I hope for broad support in this Chamber. I would also like to thank you for the commitments. Let me mention one: the palliative approach for patients with an untreatable psychiatric condition. On this subject, the VWS Minister has made a commitment that he will take this with him to the palliative care programmes that are now under way. He will inform us more about this in the first quarter of next year. I look forward to it. I'm gonna read the motions soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas breast-feeding occurs in a range of diseases and health problems in both children and mothers, in the short and long term;]] [[Considering that the National Platform Breast-feeding and the National Breast-feeding Council conclude that timely lactation help ensures that women do not stop breast-feeding prematurely, as is currently the case with 65% of mothers;]] [[Whereas breast-feeding care is embedded in youth health care after the maternity period, but the possibilities of lactation care are not adequately addressed in discussions with the youth nurse;]] [[Whereas nursing care is not covered by basic insurance during the maternity period, whereas nursing care as part of youth health care is free of charge;]] [[calls on the Government to improve the integration of lactation into youth health care with a view to improving support for mothers in breast-feeding;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, together with VNG, the possibilities of making lactation care available as part of youth health care from the birth of the child,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is still a great deal of waste in the care sector;]] [[Considering that tackling waste in care is a long-term issue and a great deal of savings can be made here;]] [[Whereas the follow-up actions to the Approach programme have been given a place in various programmes and agreements;]] [[Calls on the Government to review the ongoing actions aimed at reducing waste in healthcare and to report to the Court in spring 2019;]] [[calls on the Government to also consult with health insurers, manufacturers and other relevant parties in order to identify possible additional steps,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research shows that the financing of mental care is a patchwork;]] [[Considering that the financing of mental care in the home situation in 2019 and 2020 runs through the existing funding scheme for networks of palliative care and that alternatives to structural funding are still being identified from 1 January 2021;]] [[Whereas as from 1 January 2021, 5 million is structurally available for mental care in the home situation;]] [[calls on the Government to identify various options, including advantages and disadvantages for the financing of mental care in the home situation after 2020 and to inform the Chamber before 1 September 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-54]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-55]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Slootweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u536	The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Ministry of VWS provides grants to promote sexual health, including sexual education through schools to children and young people;]] [[Whereas children and young people should be informed about sexual health in an independent manner appropriate to their age;]] [[considers that schools should have the possibility to choose between different teaching methods in the field of sexual health;]] [[calls on the Government]] [[accelerate the independent assessment of sexual health teaching methods for new providers before 1 March 2019;]] [[make available from the existing grant a budget for new teaching methods;]] [[encouraging schools to choose from different teaching methods through the Healthy School,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Slootweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u537	Then I can ask the Secretary of State one more question in the last second. In the written reply I read that he wants to give the subject of malnutrition a place in the Langer Home programme. That's very good. But the question was also: can we give it a place in the width of the first line? I am thinking, for example, of the position of general practitioners, but no doubt there are other functions in the first line where the subject of malnutrition can get a good place. I would like to receive an answer to that. I stayed right in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u538	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I call Mrs Akerboom on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u539	Thank you, Mr President. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Q-fever epidemic has so far cost at least 74 people their lives and made thousands of people chronically ill and disabled;]] [[Whereas the maximum compensation of €15,000 per victim does not reflect the serious consequences of the disease;]] [[calls on the government to substantially increase the compensation of €15,000 per victim,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that before the introduction of the UK sugar tax many manufacturers removed sugar from their soft drinks;]] [[Whereas a sugar tax encourages manufacturers to make healthier products and encourages consumers to eat and drink healthier;]] [[calls on the Government to make a sugar tax part of the national prevention agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Akerboom and Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-58]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Akerboom. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u540	Don't worry. There's two of them. Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. I also thank the support. As far as oral care is concerned, I am a little disappointed, but let 'a little' go, especially when I read in the written answer that elderly people who are in the Wlz, with a Wlz indication, are assured of oral care. I actually think that is a form of great inequality. So I can tell you that the last word has not yet been said. We will certainly continue to do so, but let me reassure you: I do not have a motion on this now. I would like to thank the Minister for making more publicity for the medication assessment. I'm just curious how he's gonna do that. I am also grateful to the same minister for his support in the bacteriophages, because I think that is really very important and necessary. We are also pleased that attention will be paid to a new vaccine against shingles. I say that again in the direction of the Secretary of State. That vaccine is currently being registered. Shingles is a very nasty disease that is particularly contagious, so I'm glad you're doing that. I'm also happy with the pneumococcal vaccine. I am pleased that the Minister intends to take over the advice of the Health Council. I do have a motion to encourage this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Health Council in February last year that people from 60 years of age should be vaccinated against pneumococcal disease;]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State intends to take over the opinion of the Health Council;]] [[Whereas RIVM still needs six months for the execution test;]] [[calls on the government to speed up the implementation test and to clarify as soon as possible the form of public funding for the vaccination against pneumococcal disease,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sazias, Mr Ploumen and Mr Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u541	Malnutrition, that is what we have been talking about, and I often talk about it. It's a huge problem. It turns out that there are a lot of people, caregivers, but also elderly people themselves, who do not know the guidelines, the knowledge and the information. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that malnutrition in the elderly is still a major problem;]] [[Whereas several directives are being developed for food and meal supplies and these directives do not always land in the right places;]] [[calls on the Government, within the framework of the Elder Care Pact and its programmes, and in consultation with the Food Centre, Malnutrition Steering Group, municipalities and insurers, to ensure that the guidelines, knowledge and information reach the elderly and their supporters and caregivers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sazias, Mr Kerstens, Mr Agema, Mr Slootweg, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Hermans, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Bergkamp.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u542	This is a subject that we also consider important. My question is whether I may also be allowed under your fine motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u543	I'd love to, Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u544	That is what has been done here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u545	Finally, I would like to endorse a number of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u546	Thank you. Finally, Mr Kuzu. Do you still need a second term? Yes, that's the case. Oh, I'm sorry. That's awful. I forgot Mr Van der Staaij. You're first. I was a little further in my head, but Mr Van der Staaij is, of course, entitled to his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u547	Mr. Chairman. For a moment, I thought you were skipping me to say a final word, but I shall now confine myself to tabling the motions, after thanking the rulers for their reply. I've got three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas rigid budget ceilings may hinder citizens' freedom of choice,]] [[Whereas this is particularly distressing in the case of palliative terminal care;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the early detection and effective resolution of existing bottlenecks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas potential re-enterers may sometimes see the current training programme re-registration of BIG registry as a threshold for re-entry;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the removal of unnecessary thresholds for re-enterers as far as possible, either by providing better information on the training programme or by actually increasing the scope for tailor-made work while maintaining quality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, from the point of view of public health, a great deal of effort is needed to prevent the normalization of drug use during dating or visiting festivals;]] [[Whereas the production of party drugs is also linked to serious crime and nuisance, such as drug waste, which both make residential areas unsafe and affect nature;]] [[calls on the government to give an extra boost to drug prevention in education and information, but also by effectively enforcing the use of party drugs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-62]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-63]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u548	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u549	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. He spoke on behalf of the SGP. Mr Kuzu, on behalf of DENK, has the floor as the last speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u550	(NL) Mr President, I must now say my final word! Well, I guess I'll do that. Mr. Chairman. I do not think we can escape a short-term discussion of the system, because far too often we read in pieces, and we see that the Dutch concern falls from his pedestal. We no longer have the European lead position, and that is what my first motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the article "Dutch care falls from its pedestal" in the journal Medical Contact has shown that the Dutch healthcare system does not meet the fundamental objectives of the World Health Organisation;]] [[noting that the article has shown that seven European countries have a higher life expectancy than the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the article also showed that in eight other European countries the difference in life expectancy between high- and low-skilled people is less than in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that Dutch health care is gradually losing ground compared to other modern European countries;]] [[noting that the introduction of market forces in care in 2006 did not lead to lower prices or better quality of care;]] [[considers that the excessive market forces are the main cause of the deterioration in the quality of Dutch health care;]] [[calls on the government to take more care direction and thereby restrict the power of health insurers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u551	Mr. Chairman. My second motion concerns one's own risk. The coalition parties and the government have made a clear choice. Unfortunately, our amendment has been dissuaded. I don't expect him to make it, either, but I'm going to file a motion with alternative coverage. I'm not so much expecting this motion to make it, but I'm gonna do it anyway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the own risk continues to be the towering amount of €385;]] [[Whereas this is a great annoyance for many people, that it is a punishment for being sick, that it leads to care avoidance and ultimately higher costs of care;]] [[considers that the amount released should benefit large sections of the population rather than a handful of multinationals by not abolishing the dividend tax;]] [[calls on the Government to eliminate its own risk and to cover it by not allowing the reduction of corporate tax for large companies to continue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u552	Mr. Chairman. Don't worry: I will compensate for my time in the next budget debate. My third motion. In replying to the written questions, the cabinet indicated that they liked our proposal on family care, but then I heard the Minister say that there is no definition of family care. I've checked that out. There are different definitions of care. There is, among other things, one of the Social Cultural Planning Bureau, and I think it would be very useful to implement the proposal we have tabled. That's what my next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are a lot of carers in the Netherlands, but at the same time a lot of lonely elderly people no one looks at;]] [[believes that encouraging carers can relieve the burden of regular care and fit well within the participating society;]] [[believes that it would be reasonable for heirs who have provided their parents free of charge for years to pay less inheritance tax than heirs who have not looked back at their parents;]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal to exempt (partially) long-term carers from the donation and inheritance tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVI-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u553	Thank you all and wish you a good night's sleep.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u554	Thank you. The founding word is: hope brings life! I would just like to point out that 44 motions have been tabled. A ten-minute suspension has been requested. Then we continue with the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u555	We are working on the VWS budget and we are due for the second term of office. The cabinet will also give its opinion on the 44 motions tabled. First of all, the VWS Minister has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u556	Thank you, Mr President. For the sake of time, I will concentrate on the motions filed. A single question from the first period has also remained. I'm starting rap. On the motion in part No. I would like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. The reason is that I see a good relationship with the programs Unlimited participation and Working in Care. So I'd like to work on it with my colleague Van Ark. On the motion in part No. I should also like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. For the sake of clarity, I would refer you to our debate, which was held in full precision in the first term. Also on the motion on item No. I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. I also refer to what we said about this in the first term. The motion in part No. 37 I would advise against. Members Hijink and Kerstens ask the government to facilitate cooperation and consultation on tariffs and contract terms and to realize that real rates are paid everywhere in care. There are currently sufficient safeguards in the laws and regulations for cost-covering tariffs and sufficient safeguards for a fair negotiation process. The practice therefore does not require additional measures. I advise against this motion. Then the motion-Hijink/Van der Staaij on part No. 38. I said that I would like to talk to the VGN about the manifesto and VG7, but this motion also takes an advance on the outcome, which cannot be achieved without financial consequences. In addition, the findings are very poor about the care that can be offered: 'only basic care'. All in all, I am not in favour of this motion. I would therefore advise against this motion. Then the motion-Bergkamp/Dik-Faber in part No. 43. It is about the creation of residential initiatives within disability care. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. I will start an investigation into the development of residential care initiatives for people with disabilities. I will try to put the aforementioned research questions in place. Then I answer right away the question you then asked: is a scheme of care for the elderly, such as the home-care arrangements we now have for the elderly, also suitable for disabled people? I would say: let the answer to the question of which instruments are most appropriate be a result of that investigation. So I'd like to take that question with me in that investigation. Then I'll go to the Christmas c.s. motion. in piece No. 51. I do not recommend this motion because the motion states that insufficient action has yet been taken and calls on the government to take concrete action and report on it as a matter of urgency. I think I have explained precisely, both in the written response to the reports to which you refer, and in the various programmes and today in the debate, that we are already taking many measures. As regards the effectiveness of the report, I have promised Mrs Bergkamp that I will be happy to return to that next year. That is a bit in line with how she set the question up, because she asked for cooperation with the SCP and the National Ombudsman. With this, I think I have taken the measures and set up monitoring. That's why I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 52 on Working in Care. We had this debate in detail last week and again today. I think there's really been a lot of talk about that. I advise against this motion. We are taking the measures that we are convinced must be taken. We have already promised the progress reports to your Chamber. So I advise against this motion. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 53. That is the motion on real prices for youth aid, I should just like to say briefly. I believe that not only the law but also the practice of implementation provide sufficient guarantees that real rates are also paid in youth care. Municipalities and providers will have to talk to each other about how they arrive at real prices. Within the system, opportunities have therefore been organised to resolve these tariff disputes. At the Youth Transition Authority until 1 January and then through the Youth Authority within the Youth Care Programme from 1 January. At the same time, a Disputes Commission is now being set up from the VNG and the branches to deal with disputes surrounding procurement procedures. And as an ultimum remedium, the corridor to the judge is always open to providers. This is also used occasionally. I was going to say "sometime soon," but that's actually not so bad. It is therefore used occasionally. In short, not only the law but also the implementation practice has sufficient guarantees for real rates. I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 54 member Dik-Faber to look together with VNG at the possibilities of making lactation care available as part of youth health care from the birth of the child. With reference to our little debate in the first period, I leave it to the Chamber to decide on this. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 56 members of Dik-Faber and Slootweg, who ask the government to list the various options, including advantages and disadvantages for the financing of mental care in the home situation after 2020, and to inform the Chamber accordingly. Of course, the current regime will start as soon as possible. Resources are structurally available. It is indeed good to investigate how we will shape this funding after the period when we put it away in the current form, i.e. through the networks of palliative care, to put it ugly. Let me give you an update on this on 1 September. So on this motion, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber. I'll be at the Sazias c.s. motion. in piece No. 61. There are such huge hopes of names that I think it wise to leave this to the Chamber. We talked about this in the first term. I think this is very much in line with Mrs Dik-Faber's question about what we are doing with the general practitioners. Can we include them? I think I'm just going to add it to this motion and say, yes, we're going to do that. So I'll leave the motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 62 on palliative terminal care and the identification and resolution of bottlenecks in this area. I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber, referring to what I said about it in the first term. Then the motion to part No. 67 of Mr Kuzu. This motion calls on the Government to make a proposal to grant partial relief to long-term carers from the gift and inheritance tax. Mr Kuzu, who I know is always looking back at the debate, has been very precise. I didn't say there was no definition of carers. There is. But is that definition then also acceptable in the implementation of tax legislation? Can it be handled by the IRS? That's hard, of course. For example, if you have to prove that you have been a caregiver in past suits, you should try to put that into tax law in a manageable way. Of course, that's not gonna work at all. So that's not feasible. It's a nice idea, but it's just not feasible. Sometimes it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u557	And your judgment is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u558	I think it's "dissuade." Then I had a question from Mrs Dik-Faber's first term. That is the question whether the spiritual caregivers of Sigma can also participate or can be engaged by those networks of palliative care. The answer is yes. If the spiritual caregivers from Sigma meet the still to be finalized quality requirements that are in the process of being.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It is then possible. Then there was another question from Mrs Bergkamp. What is the Minister's view of the group's request for help to the government which was forced by another spirit of time to give up their child for adoption? I have already said in the first time that I suspect that Mr Dekker is dealing with this question. That's right. He is in consultation with interest groups, distance mothers and children. It takes care and time. As has already been promised by Mr Dekker, we would like to inform your Chamber before the end of the year on how we can support these children and mothers. Your question is very understandable, but it is answered in Mr Dekker's letter. Then I have come to the end of the motions and the questions that were left on my property. Traditions are there to honor. Last year, during our first budget debate, I continued a tradition started under Van Rijn: a final fitting Bible text. This is for Mr Van der Staaij, but of course it is for anyone who feels that this is the case. I would also like to continue this tradition this year. I have listened carefully to the debate today. I have heard most of the parallels in the debate in the story of the merciful Samaritan. That story's from Lucas. According to tradition, he was also a doctor, so it also fits very well with the care. It actually starts with the reason for Jesus to tell this parable. He starts the parable in response to the question of a law scholar: "Who is my neighbor?" That's where the legalization in care started. It's about defining exactly who you'd like to help. Then it's people over rules. In many speeches, that came back. The essence of what is being taken on board in this resemblance is precisely that rules are placed above people. It is about the priest and the Levite who, because otherwise they would become unclean and could no longer do their work in the temple, who they must help pass by, and thus for the sake of the rules ignore their human mission to help each other. Even flexible funding is in there. The Samaritan gave the boss of the inn two denaries, two tokens, and said: Take care of them, and if you have to make more costs, I will repay them on my return journey. But perhaps most of all you have argued that in the field of innovation within the current care, there is already as much as incredibly possible by simply doing what is right with common sense and with inner emotion. There's actually no law that forbids that. My text for this year, for ourselves but above all for people in care, would actually be the last sentence of this parable: 'Do the same in future'. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u559	Thank you, Minister. The Minister for Medical Care has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u560	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to respond to the following motions. First of all, the motion in part No. 24 by Mr Arno Rutte. As far as I'm concerned, the theme of smart care at home has been discussed extensively. I see it as a policy support. The proof of this lies in one of the main agreements. So I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Before I get to the motion in part No. 28 I still owe Mrs Ellemeet an answer on VAT. I had to look it up for a while. The increase in VAT also has an impact on medicines and devices. This amounts to EUR 325 million in order. This has been incorporated into the expenditure ceiling care. This is also reflected in the rates, which does not reduce healthcare claims. I wanted to give that answer to Mrs Ellemeet. Then the Ellemeet/Dik-Faber motion in part No. 28 on lifestyle medicine. In fact, we have also discussed this issue extensively. Judgement room is part of that motion. Then the motion Ellemeet c.s. in piece No. 30, on physiotherapy, in which the government is asked to have the Healthcare Institute examine, on the basis of existing quality information, the consequences of contracting on the quality of physiotherapy for the patient. I have just argued that we are waiting for the NZa investigation, and the administrative arrangements such as those have to do with the sector, so I would really like this motion to be held by the authors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u561	I'll think about it for a little while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u562	Then I will continue with the Ellemeet motion in part No. 31. It contains the request to the government regarding the legal anchoring. As I said in the first term, that is a step too far. In the letter in December, I want to keep the freedom to consider whether this legal anchoring is now the best choice. For that reason, I would like to discourage this motion. Then I come to the Van den Berg motion in part No. 32. I see it as a policy support. I have agreed with the insurers that they are going to offer fewer policies and that there must be a clear difference in content between policies. We have discussed in detail the reduction of the collectivity discount from 2020. So, as far as I'm concerned, this motion gets the verdict of the Chamber. Then there is the Van den Berg motion in part No. 33 in which the government is invited to encourage the members of the Co-operative Top Clinical Hospitals, the Co-operative General Hospitals and the health insurance companies in the region to discuss how to organise the healthcare offer in such a way that care is provided close to the patient where possible and in which the government is invited to pay attention in the annual progress reports of "right care in the right place" to the actions undertaken in the shrinkage regions. I argued in the first term that the image we want to create per region addresses these issues. So I see this as supporting my policy and leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Then we go to the motion-Hijink/Ellemeet in part No. 36 on reducing one's own risk. It is well known to the authors that the cabinet has taken a different decision, namely to freeze its own risk for the coming years. That's settled by law. So I'm deceiving the motion in part no. 36. The motion-Van Gerven c.s. in piece No. 39 is about the collaboration of hospitals. I do not recommend this motion because I do not share the observation that in recent years, in hospital care, the emphasis has been on competition rather than cooperation. Nor do I share the observation that hospitals are not allowed to make agreements in many areas on the basis of the Competition Act. Especially with regard to the quality of care, there is already a lot to be done in terms of cooperation. The operative part implies a steering role of the government in the way the care landscape is organised. That is not in line with the existing system. Again: dissuade. Then I am at the Van Gerven motion in part No. 40. I also advise against that motion. The ceiling has been introduced because there is no evidence that more than this maximum is effective. Only effective care is included in the package as previously agreed. Then the motion to part No. 41. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. The proceeds of the measure finance several other measures, including package expansion, sick transport, supervised practice therapy at COPD and the maximisation of the GVS contribution. Moreover, I note that these medicines are used for very different groups of patients and it is not possible to keep the medicines for certain patients in the package. So I advise against the motion in part no. 41. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 44. This motion calls on the government to ask the Healthcare Institute to assess whether the current maximum number of treatment hours is still in line with the current care demand and the objective of enabling people to stay at home for as long as possible, specifically looking at the role that the ergotherapist can play in the right care in the right place. It is customary for professional groups themselves to take the direction of the Healthcare Institute if they no longer consider the claims sufficient on the basis of their experience and expertise. At the same time, however, I would like to convey this request from the Chamber to the Healthcare Institute, including those opportunities for proper care in the right place. So I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 45 about looking at outcome-oriented care, even in the longer term. Mr President, as far as I am concerned, Mr Raemakers' motion is based on 'judge chamber'. Then the motion to part No. 46 on data exchange, how I'm going to direct and how I'm going to indicate concrete improvements. I also see this as a support for policy. I'm giving "judge chamber" on this motion. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 47 on how to design a clinical trial. On this motion, too, I should like to say: Court of Justice. It's policy support. Then the motion to part No. 49 on recovery operations related to genital mutilation. There are two requests: in 2019 make a decision on the reimbursement of the recovery operations and the temporary payment out of grant for 2019. Until it has been established that the recovery operation is safe and effective, we cannot grant a subsidy or allow intervention into the package. As I said, I am asking the Healthcare Institute for advice. That's why I'm deceiving the motion. Then we have the motion on the doctor's assistant in part No. 50. I also advise against that motion, Mr President. Given that a doctor's assistant always works under the responsibility of a doctor, that title protection is not necessary. But I repeat what I said in the first term: we are going to make a letter for you on the more fundamental side of the BIG. Then I have the motion in part no. 55 on waste. It calls for an overview of ongoing actions and also for the identification of the additional steps. I don't really want to make a new note. I do not recommend this motion, but I am prepared to include it separately in the regular progress report on the main agreement, so that Mrs Dik can see where the results of combating waste lead. But, as I said, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u563	I ask the Minister not to make a note or a programme, but to see what is still needed in addition to what is already going on to reduce waste. So again, no program. I don't think that's desirable. We shouldn't put it on paper. We should do it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u564	But I have anchored that "doing" in other documents, for example in the green deal and in other places in the main line agreements. I say it by the late hour a little too homey, but I don't feel like making a new overview. I don't feel like mapping new things either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u565	That's clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u566	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the Akerboom/Van Gerven motion in part No. 58. I'd advise against it. Q fever, let me say, causes a lot of suffering and misery. The motion calls for a substantially higher amount per victim to be made available. I do not believe that any amount can remove the suffering. The stated scheme for up to €15,000 per victim is intended as a gesture. And again, I don't think a higher amount can take away the suffering, so I advise against this motion. Mrs Sazias has not tabled any motions for me, but she has asked me a question about how this annual medication assessment can be better brought to my attention. I am going to include that point in my regular consultation with the GPs, because I would like it to be done in a practical way. I would also like to hear their ideas, and I will then report to the Chamber on them. Then the motion to part No. 63 by Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Sazias. The point of re-registrations. Unnecessary thresholds for re-enterers should be removed as much as possible. Better information. The signals referred to by the author of the motion, Mr Van der Staaij, have also reached me. I mentioned earlier that we are already talking about this with professional groups in order to make more tailor-made work possible. I repeat that patient safety is and remains of great importance. I see the motion as supporting my efforts and therefore leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then I come to the Kuzu motion on part No. 65, in which I am asked to draw more direction in care towards me and restrict more power from the health insurance companies. I'm deceiving that motion. We want to maintain the current system and put our energy into its better functioning. In fact, you have been able to hear all of my speech about improving the functioning of the system in the first term this evening, I would also like to say in the direction of Mrs Agema. Finally, the motion on item No. 66, in which Mr Kuzu asks us to eliminate our own risk. I think the petitioner actually knows that the cabinet has made a different choice, namely to introduce its own risk legally until 2021. I therefore advise against that motion. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to thank all those who contributed to the preparation. I see a whole bunch of hard, hard workers sitting there. Thank you very much. There aren't so many people in the stands anymore, but there are all kinds of people watching at home. I've been getting messages from Oxford that we're being watched with us tonight. That's why we tried our stinking best. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u567	Thank you, Minister. I now turn to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u568	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to agree with the words of thanks to the spokesmen for the constructive discussions we have. We do not agree on everything, but it is a constructive debate. I would like to thank the Chamber very much for that. And I would also like to thank the official support. It's not just the visible official support. There are also a lot of people behind it who provide a lot of good information. We are blessed with very good official support. Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on the contributions of the various groups. Three motions have been tabled on the issue of assistance in unintended pregnancies. One is the motion in part No. 26 by Mrs Ellemeet in conjunction with Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen, one by Mrs Ploumen. 42 by Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Dijkstra and a third by Mrs Bergkamp, That's the hotline. I'll start with the first two. They both have to do with those quality criteria. The motion in part No. 26 by Mrs Ellemeet goes a little further than Mrs Bergkamp's in point No. 42, although the bar is set high in that too, I think. In the light of my first contribution, it will not be surprising that I have taken Mrs Ellemeet's motion on item No. 26 would like to discourage it, because I think it is too far-reaching to define criteria now. We're going to debate that, I think. I think that motion goes too far and I want to dissuade her. On the motion by Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Dijkstra on item No. 42 I would like to say that I leave the judgment to the Chamber. On Mrs Ploumen's and Mrs Ellemeet's motion on one central point of information, in the light of my first term, I would like to say that I am very sympathetic to it and that I want to take a serious look at it, but that I think it is premature because I am still in consultation with the field parties. In the light of that, I would like to deny the motion. That's the motion in part No. 48.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u569	We ask the Secretary of State for a very fundamental ruling with our motion. I understand that he still has to weigh the quality criteria, but this is a very fundamental statement. That is why we have included this in a motion and I ask the Secretary of State for a ruling on this request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u570	I clearly dissuade the motion. In the debate we had on this matter, I indicated at first reading that there are a number of things that I want to include in these quality criteria and which you may also hold me to. I'd like to talk to the Chamber about that. There must be no direct action by emergency workers, the bar is high when it comes to providing the right medical information and the organisation must be clear about its mission and reasons. That's a whole set of demands we're gonna make. That's also new in relation to what we're doing right now. If we are going to lay down conditions about being associated with other organisations, I think we are asking about them at the moment. Again, I'd like to talk about it. At the moment, I think it is premature to rule that out already.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u571	I am very concerned that the Secretary of State finds this premature, that he cannot say at this stage that it can never be the case that an organisation operating an anti-abortion lobby co-finances another organisation, which is supposed to provide independent assistance and is associated with it administratively. That is incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u572	I repeat what I said in the first term. We go to organizations that help to achieve the goals of the government, where we want to stop public money, subsidies, and pay for quality. That's the norm for me. That is also my response to Mrs Bergkamp's question, namely whether I know the financial and legal links between the VBOK and Siriz. I don't have any stock in those clubs. I really need the initial answer to the question of what the legal ties are still guilty. I don't know anything about that. I'd like to have that checked out and inform the Chamber about that. I know, and I think more people know that the VBOK is providing financial support to Siriz. There will be legal ties. I want to find out, and I want to report that, too. I also say to Mrs Bergkamp, in line with what I said to Mrs Ellemeet, which weighs quality for me. In the motion that Mrs Bergkamp has just made and on which I have left the judgement to the Chamber, the bar is very high on quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u573	I do indeed like it when the Secretary of State comes back to my question about the administrative, financial and legitimate interlinkages of these two organisations. Before December 1st we get all the information. I would appreciate it if he could let us know this in a letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u574	Yeah, I don't think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u575	That's a promise. Then there is Mrs Ploumen on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u576	Mr President, very briefly. I would like to fight for the Secretary of State to set a very high standard of quality. He does not, because he refuses to state in principle that organisations associated with the anti-abortion lobby cannot provide assistance. That is a part of quality for me, because that quality represents freedom of choice and you cannot allow women to choose freely. We have seen that, and it is proven that you are working with and supported by an anti-abortion lobby at the same time. So as far as I'm concerned, he doesn't raise the bar at all and he doesn't actually put that bar down at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u577	This is the opinion of Mrs Ploumen, and I really do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u578	Yes, Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u579	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just asking the petitioners to hold the motion until December 1st, until we get all the information. I understand that is not the case. I would then like to have an answer to the question before we have the vote, so that at least we have all the factual information about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u580	When will we vote on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u581	In the week after recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u582	That way, we can judge on the basis of all the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u583	Then it's about the specific question that concerns legal and other intertwining between VBOK and Siriz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u584	Yes. You're admitting that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u585	If that question is asked, I think it should be put separately, because it cannot be included in the letter of 1 December. That information is therefore sent separately to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u586	And that information will reach the Chamber before the Tuesday after the autumn recess, the day we vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u587	Yeah, by October 30th. Yes. May I continue, Mr. Chairman? Mrs Ellemeet has tabled a motion on a campaign that the Empire should launch to put sex in a positive light. So it is also about the positive aspects of sex and it is about not just highlighting its negative aspects, similar to previous campaigns. That's my paraphrase, isn't it, or I'm gonna have to repeat the whole motion. So there's no agenda behind it. I also see this as support for policy. I have already indicated in the written replies that we are also engaged in campaigns in the seven-point plan of the field parties supporting unintentional pregnancies. But I have also heard Mrs Ellemeet say very clearly that it should not only be about the shadows and the negatives, but also about the beautiful sides such as resilience, mutual respect and so on. That does not seem to me to be a questioning, so I would like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u588	This is about the motion in part No. 29.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u589	Mrs Ploumen asked questions about the prevention agreement. You can't tell where you stand yet, but what is the cabinet's commitment? I have said before that I would find it very strange if I said: this is exactly my bet. And I'd be really crazy if I came back and said, "But I didn't get what I wanted on a lot of points." Then you get a really crazy story. But I can give you a start of an answer. The coalition agreement states that there should be a prevention agreement. This is also on the initiative of organisations in society. The ESC and other organisations have called for this. We have succeeded in doing so. In the coalition agreement, two themes are directly linked to this, namely overweight and smoking. Smoking even has an explicit aim: they are a smoke-free generation. That is my commitment, and the bar is very high, because in order to organise a smoke-free generation you have to get a lot of work done. This will also be reflected in the presentation of that agreement. That's the bet. After consultation with all kinds of civil society organisations, I added problematic alcohol consumption. This is also mentioned in the coalition agreement, but not directly linked to the prevention agreement. That's what I've got under that flag. The commitment I have brought and received is that there must be broad commitment. It shouldn't be a party of a few clubs, but there has to be a broad commitment. We are currently talking to more than 50 organisations to sign it. I think that seems to indicate a broad commitment. I would like to leave it at that with regard to the commitment, if Mrs Ploumen agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u590	Mrs Ploumen doesn't have much choice. But she's still asking one more question. I hear the Secretary of State's commitment and I read what is in the coalition agreement. There was a message in the paper today, I believe in De Telegraaf. It states that measures are being taken leading to a smoke-free generation. Those measures were also spelled out. Assuming that that could be true, wouldn't the Secretary of State be very pleased with what it says? I understand that, don't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u591	Lesson 1 in media training is that you can't go into what-if questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u592	You're not speaking to the media, you're speaking to parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u593	Okay. And Mrs Ploumen asks: if you see De Telegraaf this morning, will you be completely happy? Well, let me put it this way: I've been less happy when I saw De Telegraaf for days. If it opens with a victory by Ajax, I also like it, by the way. Mrs Dik-Faber has also tabled a motion on sexual health. It states that before 1 March it must be clear that there is a wider offer and that it must be done through the Healthy School in a framework in which schools have freedom to choose. I would also like to leave this motion to the House. I think at least the route through the Healthy School is very important. And also freedom of choice if there is a wider offer, I think is also a great asset. I would also like to leave this motion to the House. I think that at least the Healthy School route is very important and that freedom of choice is also a great asset if there is a wider offer. Judge Chamber on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u594	That's the motion in part No. 57.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u595	Yes, no. 57.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u596	A question about that, though, because I do not understand this motion. Schools have the freedom to choose teaching methods. I do not think that we should play a role in this as a government. In addition, you have the core goals that educational institutions must adhere to. So I think this is a very strange motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u597	And does Mrs Bergkamp say that to me or to the author?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u598	I'm telling you because you say "judge chamber." So when it comes to freedom of education, I'm curious. Institutions can ask the government for subsidies themselves. We are not talking about the teaching material of schools, except about the core objectives. I don't understand why we want to influence that from this Chamber, so I ask the Secretary of State: does he not agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u599	I also see the author of the motion at the interrupting microphone. Maybe it'll save us a lot of time if she says something about it first, but otherwise I want to let my inimitable light shine on it too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u600	I'm following your suggestion. In fact, this question should have been put to Mrs Dik-Faber in the second term when the motion was tabled. I now give her the opportunity to say something about this, because that might help to clarify the matter quickly. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u601	This motion does not interfere at all with the core objectives and gives more freedom to schools. When there is more offer, schools also have more freedom to choose. So I do not see the point Mrs Bergkamp is raising here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u602	I would have liked to have had a debate on it, but you did not mention it in your story; I would have been able to have the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u603	Point of order. I tabled the motion and Mrs Bergkamp could have asked me questions in the second term and that was not the case. Now that we have a little debate through the interrupting microphone, I also find it a little uncomfortable. But once again, the key objectives are not under discussion and there is more freedom for schools with more choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u604	Finally, the Secretary of State on this point. Is there anything else you'd like to say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u605	I have nothing to add, Mr President. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked a question about malnutrition and the role of general practitioners in it. I think the US Secretary of State has taken this up. She asked me, but that question has already been answered. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Akerboom has in part no. 59 tabled a motion asking for sugar tax to be included as part of the National Prevention Agreement. This type of motion has also been tabled in the course of this year, and I have always said: I do not think that we are going to send by means of motions what the Empire's commitment to the prevention agreement is. That's why I wouldn't advise her. Mr. Chairman. I have another comment to make on the motion in part No. Mrs Sazias' 60 on pneumococcal vaccination. I am pleased that Mrs Sazias welcomes the fact that we want to adopt the opinion of the Health Council. RIVM is studying on that. I understand Mrs. Sazias' response. She says: should that take six months? However, there is a need to carefully consider all ifs and buts and implementation processes. If Mrs Sazias says 'as soon as possible', I assume she also thinks 'as carefully as possible'. In that light, I would like to make the assessment of the motion on item No. Leave 60 to the Chamber, because I understand the request very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u606	Mrs. Sazias nods in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u607	Mr. Chairman. Finally, the motion in part No. 64 by Mr Van der Staaij. The operative part calls on the government to "in education and information but also by effectively enforcing the use of party drugs, to give an extra boost to drug prevention." In my first term, I have already indicated that I am going to investigate the possibility of taking additional measures in the field of prevention. That's kind of what this motion is all about. If I may read her in such a way that if the research I have carried out leads to us also having to move a step faster in relation to party drugs than has already been used by a previous cabinet, then I would certainly like to take that with me. But first, I'd like to wait and see that investigation. So I'm not sure that that fits seamlessly with this motion. Moreover, the part of the operative part asking for enforcement is actually addressed to our colleague for Justice and Security. I think that's a little exciting, because I'm not gonna promise that on his behalf. So, in fact, that request should be submitted to another budget and I am somewhat embarrassed here. I am benevolently looking at the motion. If the investigation gives me reason to take more steps here, I'd like to take it with me. In that light... I don't really know what advice comes with that. "Judge Room" is also so easy, I'll leave you with the misery. I hear that's okay. "Judge Chamber," then, Chairman. Mr President, that was my second contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u608	We're still missing one verdict, as far as I've been able to keep up. That is the verdict on the motion on item No. 35.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u609	But then I'm gonna make way for the U.S. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u610	Thank you, Secretary of State. The Minister of VWS on the motion in part No. 35.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u611	Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to ask around in order to express my opinion. It's, uh, judgment room. That won't surprise you either, given the discussion in the first term. We're gonna check it out. It's about a right to challenge. We're gonna find out what's possible. I'm still not getting ahead of the real possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-17.u612	Thank you, Minister. Thank you to all the rulers and all the members for their input. It's gotten pretty late. Nevertheless, I wish you a pleasant autumn recess. We'll meet on October 30th.
