ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is oral Question Time, as usual, on Tuesday. We shall begin with Mr Wiersma's questions on behalf of the VVD to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment on WW fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr President, thank you. We were here at the beginning of this political year. Fake applications, false signatures, sometimes 61 entries at one address and also criminals who help you with that. I also said at the time: the WW, our Unemployment Act, is meant for if you work hard here and get out of work against your will. Our benefits are paid by hardworking people. Why? To have a safety net when it's a bitch and, if you lose your job, to be able to do your shopping and pay for your house, but not to spend your holidays in Poland or work with it. That is exactly what we have to deal with carefully. People who build up these benefits are entitled to do so. It can't be explained if that doesn't happen. Fraud is inadmissible and must be dealt with, always. That's exactly when the broadcast came from Nieuwsuur, Saturday night. It was a dreary day, but the news was also very droopy. Acknowledgment is faster than rejection, came out of that broadcast. It's easier not to want to see too much. Targets or reports whose enforcement takes more time or a lot of time, say "maybe it shouldn't be looked at" or "you won't hear from them anymore." And here comes the criminals who help with this, practices that reflect this and intimidation of intermediaries. If you live at an address where you happen to have 20 people registered, you'll notice. Mr. Chairman. You're gonna be looking for work right now, and you're gonna do your best to comply with all kinds of rules. If you make a mistake somewhere, they'll know where to find you. But when you hear this, about criminals running around with our system, you think, "How is this possible?" It raises a lot of questions again. We've been asking a lot of questions over the past week, all parties together. I think it is a good thing that, after this announcement, we should add a number of questions, asking the Minister to come back to that as soon as possible. 'Cause how is this possible? We have all kinds of rules and possibilities to deal with fraud. We have the inspection; we invest in it as well. But still, it's obviously slipping through. How big is the problem? 'Cause it actually seems to be getting more and more when I'm following the transmissions. Has this approach to fraud been a child that has been held back? Can the Minister respond to that in his reply? Have we, as this has been going on for the past few weeks, changed a few things? I am very curious whether Newsuur's coverage has already led to policy adjustments and attention to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u3	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to thank Mr Wiersma for his questions. I myself saw the broadcast of Nieuwsuur last Saturday, and of course the two broadcasts before that. The image that emerges from this is very serious. I very much agree with Mr Wiersma and a number of other spokesmen in the Chamber that fraud involving benefits is unacceptable. On Saturday there were also allegations about the culture within the UWV. That had already come out a bit as a result of the first two newscasts and leaked intranet coverage. In addition to what we discussed two weeks ago, I find that a worrying signal. Like you, I have questions about that. In addition to the questions from the Chamber two weeks ago, written questions were received. Along with the UWV, I'm trying to figure it out right now. I have promised that before the end of this month I will not be able to do so on Friday, but it will be lifted just over the weekend, because I will also have to take these signals with me. I will send a letter in which I will address the various aspects of fraud and possible measures, including measures that will be launched in the near future. I will also include the cultural aspect in the answer to the Chamber, together with the answers to the whole set of written questions. Again, these signals are serious and I take them very seriously. I also have a discussion with the UWV summit this week following the Nieuwsuur broadcast on the fraud of Polish labour immigrants. I am sure that this aspect of last Saturday will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u6	Thanks to the Minister. It's good that he's doing this carefully, because we need everything on the table. Not only that, we must take an approach. This approach must then focus not only on never letting this happen again, but also on getting the money back from these people. So I am also curious to see what the Minister is going to do to get back that money that has perhaps been given with a pinched eye. It would really be the axe at the root of our social system if we accepted such behavior. We do not accept that, and I hear the Minister say that, and I hope that we will see that in that approach too. So not only answers to the Chamber but also the approach to how we will prevent it as soon as possible, because this cannot be explained. I'm glad the Minister shares this. I'm also glad he's going further on that new point, the M.O. at UWV. I can't wait to see how people work there. Who's gonna talk about what? What agreements are being made and what priorities are being set? How does this work out in practice and when will it be adjusted? What has happened there in the past and what are we going to do about it better? I would like the Minister to include the answers to those questions in the letter. We're looking forward to that letter. I can imagine with this new information that we will give those extra days until Monday to the Minister. So I'm okay with him coming up with that reaction on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u7	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the extra weekend so we can make that letter better. In that letter, I would indeed like to outline my approach to preventing and addressing the problems identified and to look at the fines and recoveries that have already taken place and those that still have to be done in the future. On the subject of working methods, I very much agree with Mr Wiersma. How does this work out in practice? The question we received in the last few weeks and also last Saturday on the air was: if there are signs of fraud, suspicions of fraud are then passed on internally to the enforcement department and then what happens to it? That is indeed a specific question that I have myself. Is it sufficiently responsive? I will also include this aspect in the discussion with the UWV tomorrow. I will also come back to this in the letter from the beginning of next week. For the sake of completeness, I would also like to refer to the report of the Court of Auditors in 2017, in which the UWV was also reviewed and in which there was also a delay in the enforcement points but hard work was made to resolve them. All these signals I take with me in my letter from the beginning of next week. I very much agree with Mr Wiersma that this is a serious problem which requires serious action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you. Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u10	Mr. Chairman. First of all, it is laughable that it is just the VVD that has to ask these questions, because it was a VVDer, director Bruins at the UWV, who was responsible for the UWV, who caused ruins in relation to a cover-up culture, in which thousands of Poles could simply commit undisturbed fraud. I was actually wondering, what happened to that Mr. Bruins? Was he fired? Did he quit on his own? Is it on waiting money now or something? 'Cause after all this shit, it can't be true that this Mr. Bruins is the same Mr. Bruins who's in the cabinet right now, so instead of being fired, he's been promoted? Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u11	I find that a complicated question, in the sense that Mr Bruins cannot respond to this in his old role as chairman of the UWV's board of directors. I don't like that either. I think it's right that he doesn't respond. He doesn't want to get in the way of his successor either. I'm responsible for this. I have sent a letter to your Chamber containing the facts, what happened and how to prevent this. I would like to leave it at that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u12	Second question, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u13	I can't get an answer. Mr Bruins is not at all responsible for the ruins he left at the UWV. Thousands of Poles who could simply commit fraud with WW and get away with it. A cover-up culture. It's very serious business. And this minister just protects that then director at the UWV by saying: well, you know, he's not responding and I don't want to go into it any further. It can't be. It's about our social security. And what we are seeing now is that a person like Mr Bruins, after all the misery he's caused, is not being fired but getting a promotion and just being in the cabinet for the VVD. So that's how we deal with our social security these days. But I have another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u14	Very briefly, because you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u15	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. This Minister does have a problem. That's a problem with the UWV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u16	The question!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u17	I therefore also believe that the Minister should solve this problem. So when is this minister finally going to intervene in the UWV?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u18	I have just said in the previous reply that I take these signals very seriously, that I have mapped out measures in the last two weeks to resolve this problem and that I will inform your Chamber about it at the beginning of next week. As far as I am concerned, I would like to discuss this approach with the Chamber shortly afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u19	Fraud is unacceptable and we assume that we will read in the Minister's letter of the week that he is going to recover any wrongly paid euro. But now about the culture within the UWV. We saw in the broadcast UWV employees who were discouraged by their supervisor to report fraud. Does the Minister share the view that this is unacceptable and that the UWV summit should be held liable if necessary? 'Cause this can't be happening. Fraud must be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u20	If that is the case, if UWV employees have those signals of fraud, would be discouraged from passing these signals on to, for example, the enforcement team, then I agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk that that is unacceptable. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u21	Another broadcast of Nieuwsuur about the UWV, this time especially about the fear culture that prevails. Is the Minister willing to talk to the people who do the work at the UWV as well? Of course, the minister will talk to the top of the UWV. That's a logical step. But it is the people who say that their workload is far too high, who therefore do not dare to make reports, who complain about executives and who report anonymously to Nieuwsuur. I am concerned with the perspective of those workers who know exactly what is going on. Is the Minister prepared to talk to these people too, with the works council but perhaps also wider than that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u22	Yeah, well, then I do intend to. Actually, I was supposed to take it easy, without cameras and stuff like that. But now that Mr Gijs van Dijk asks so explicitly, that is also in my agenda. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u23	Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u24	Yes, another Mr. Bruins, let me add.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u25	Eppo Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u26	Thank you. We've already talked about culture and agreements. That's what the minister's gonna look at in the letter we get from him. I'm missing one aspect, and that's the system. I mention something else big from the last few weeks; I mention the ING, who had just built into the system: after three beeps, after three reports of suspicious transactions, we turn it off, because we can't handle it. I wonder to what extent the system is failing here. Are certain things also at stake here in the system, because employees say that we simply can't handle it? When I see in the newspaper how many beneficiaries one employee of the UVW has under him, I wonder: can the system handle it? Will the Minister include that in the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u27	I understand the question very well. That is a fair question from Mr Eppo Bruins. I'm going to anticipate the letter a little bit now. That might be unwise, but I'm gonna do it anyway. The image is now that the system is well organized. Of course, this was also looked at by the General Court in 2017. But the question is whether the paper reality is also the real reality. That is also what I think is at stake in the comments made by staff at the UWV in recent weeks. There are opportunities to pass it on, there are beeps, there are signals about Poland, but the question is, of course, what happens to it in practice? That is exactly the question I have myself, which I am trying to answer right now. So I'm taking it with me in the letter coming to the Chamber next Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u28	I hope that the Minister will also include proposals in the letter to really solve the problem, so that the solutions will also come with them. When he talks to the UWV, I would like to ask if he will also take with him the visit made by the Social Affairs Committee at the UWV to get to know where a glowful story was kept, indeed by Mr Bruins, about how well it went. There were just a few too few arborists, but everything else went fantastic. I would like to know whether we have been deceived, whether the whole truth, half the truth or no truth was spoken there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u29	On the first question, yes. In the letter I would like to outline a number of measures and also submit them to your Chamber in order to resolve this problem in a structural way. In particular, we are talking about the first broadcast of Newsuur about intermediate agencies that act as a doorway or actually as a way to make fraud possible, and how to deal with it. So sure, yeah. On the second point, I also suggested two weeks ago, also in oral Question Time, that I should like the UWV to inform your Chamber of special new phenomena of fraud. Unfortunately, social security always creates new forms of fraud. So far, we have only reported on the broad lines of this fraud approach, precisely because we wanted to prevent fraudsters from being too public. One of the thoughts I have now, which I will also come up with in the letter, is to regularly inform your Chamber confidentially about these new forms of benefit fraud, which are not for the general public but which I do think your Chamber should know about. So I'll take it with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u30	We are surprised every time as a room, a few weeks ago by the broadcast of Newshour and now again. It is good that the Minister is standing here to answer questions, but I do have the impression that the Minister is also surprised, this time about the culture of looking away from fraud. That's a big deal. So I would like to know specifically: was the Minister surprised by this, has he had these signals before and if he has had them before, what has he done with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u31	I answered this question two weeks ago, and I thought that following a question from Mr Wiersma, I am not sure anymore. I myself was indeed surprised by these signs of fraud, in this particular case. As a result, signals have indeed emerged from staff members of the UWV, both on the intranet that went out and last Saturday in the broadcast of Nieuwsuur, or signs of fraud are passed on to enforcement, or to the top. That is really the signal for me to go deeper into this, to ask questions here at the top of the UWV and to respond seriously in the letter I will send to you next Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-2.u32	Thank you.
