ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the Law 34929, Amendment of the Health Insurance Act to leave unchanged the mandatory own risk for health insurance up to 2021. I would like to welcome the Minister for Medical Care and Sport to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mr Ton van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. Its own risk has once been introduced to curb unnecessary hospital visits and/or unnecessary drug use. A high own risk would inhibit action and avoid unnecessary use of expensive care. The objective is achieved in itself, because studies show that one's own risk leads to lower healthcare expenditure. The braking effect as such is there, but what is not clear is whether necessary care is avoided or not necessary care is avoided. We don't know that, but that's crucial. After all, if necessary care is avoided, in the long term this can lead to increased costs of care and damage to the patient. The patient often does not know what is necessary and not necessary care. After all, he's not a doctor. In order to ensure that no necessary care is avoided, we believe that this choice should lie with the general practitioner and not with the patient. And to ensure that the patient follows the instructions of the GP, there should be no financial brake on the patient to refrain from taking care. That is why the PVV wants to eliminate its entire risk. Its own risk leads to lower care costs for the government, as these costs are shifted to the working citizen in particular. We would therefore like an answer from the Minister to the following questions. Does the Minister share the view of the PVV that the braking effect on unnecessary hospital visits and drug use should be placed with the GP, by facilitating them better? Does the Minister share the view of the PVV that this could reduce or even eliminate its own risk in the foreseeable future? Does the Minister share the view of the PVV that by laying the brake effect on the general practitioner, the quality of health care will be better guaranteed, and that this will not even increase costs in the long term? When do the Minister start ringing the alarm bells to the number of care avoidrs because of their own risk? When has the Minister come the moment when he will consider reducing his own risk and eventually abolishing it? If the Minister does not share the views of the PVV on all points, can he indicate on which parts he does not share the views of the PVV, and why?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u4	Just to be clear, what exactly does the spokesperson mean by the "brake effect"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u5	The braking effect is that there is a financial incentive in many patients to refrain from necessary second-line assistance because of that own risk. I've spoken to GPs. There is that effect. We just wonder if this is in the interest of a good care system and whether you can't have that role performed better by the general practitioner. In practice, it also appears that this role is better performed by the general practitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u6	I have a question for Mr Van Kesteren. Does he think that the general practitioner's profession is still attractive when such a person is primarily employed to constantly sell the message to a patient who asks for an extra examination, an extra medicine or a referral: no, that is not allowed, I do not write a note for that, because that costs so much money? I think that in the interaction between the patient and the general practitioner that braking effect does not occur so often at all. I wonder where you'll get that from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u7	A general practitioner will not in interaction with the patient indicate the costs and say that therefore a follow-up study or treatment is not appropriate. But what matters to me is that you should let the GP play that role. Then you have to facilitate the general practitioner in that too. That is actually what we are advocating.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u8	How does Mr Van Kesteren see that facilitating? If the general practitioner is going to play the role that Mr Van Kesteren attaches to him, then the general practitioner is going to be the person who really is going to sell "no' in the system. He therefore has an important role to play in controlling costs in the system. That is what all these measures were all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u9	The point is that you have an adequate care system. You can't do that just by increasing costs and risk. In particular, the elderly insured persons who are chronically ill are hiccups at their own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u10	I have just heard Mr Van Kesteren say that we should increase our own risk. But that's not what we're talking about today, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u11	No. We do not think that you should freeze it, we think that you should even abolish it, because it misses its purpose. That's what I'm talking about. Good. Not the own risk but the GP is as gatekeeper for the PVV more effective and probater for the braking effect on unnecessary hospital visit and drug use. Not all general practitioners are convinced that, because of the additional costs, their own risk constitutes a threshold for their patients to have further research carried out or to be referred to a specialist. If the general practitioner directs and the patient does not use this referral because of its additional costs due to the legal own risk, then this measure misses its purpose. That's what the PVV is worried about. We therefore ask the Minister whether the costs of the care avoidrs due to subsequent complications, additional hospitalisations and so on will not be higher than the proceeds of one's own risk. Does the Minister agree and, if not, why not? Does the Minister not agree that it is much more effective to apply the braking effect to the general practitioner, to facilitate it better and to reduce or even eliminate its own risk in the long term? Does he not think that the quality of health care will continue to be better secured and that this will not even increase costs in the long term? I'd like a response from the Minister. Keeping care affordable is not achieved by maintaining a high legal own risk. The ageing population and indeed mass immigration have helped to increase healthcare costs and will continue to increase under unchanged policies. Mr. Chairman. It is the responsibility of a government to serve the interests of the citizens of the people. People in the country benefit from low costs, in this case low care costs and as high a disposable income as possible. This gives citizens freedom, giving citizens perspective and independence. And that's good for the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u12	Mr. Van Kesteren, I partially agreed with your speech. That was about the effects of care-avoidance. That's where you were on the right track. But then you started talking about mass immigration and you made the point that it would have a cost-driven effect. Then I would like to know: what is this cost-driven effect? Then you need to make that visible with numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u13	Well, it's a fact. You have to look at it this way: the middle groups pay most of the price. I will come back to this later in my speech. The middle groups, which generally pay the costs, are pulverised by an upper layer that meets the costs and a lower layer that is rightly compensated for the financial costs that the care entails. I would also like to make a plea for middle-class groups in particular, especially older insured people who are becoming chronically ill and who are having trouble getting the hang of things every month. These care costs and, in particular, the legal own risk, reduce those costs and monthly costs. I'm trying to make a plea for that. Large groups in the Netherlands benefit from the abolition of that legal risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u14	This is what I'm following, and that's what you're even getting me with, but what about that group that would come in here and seemingly work at a cost? Then you must also be able to indicate that in figures. I am therefore concerned with the migration you are referring to, which seems to have a high impact on the middle group. Because that's what you're suggesting. Anyway, I'd like some numbers. And if that doesn't work, it stops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u15	It is well known that newcomers in this country are making great use of the assistance and are also in this situation. And that bottom layer is getting bigger and bigger. So the bottom and top layers are pressing harder and they're crushing those middle groups. I'll make a plea for that. I will stick to that in my speech, whether you like it or not. On the other hand, the public also understands when it is said that our healthcare system must remain affordable and that the quality of health care must be maintained. Unfortunately, however, we all too often see that solutions are being sought in terms of increasing the burden on citizens, or tax increases, and that, in particular, the middle class, the middle groups, the water is now running out. The middle groups in our society are always expected to show solidarity with those who are less well off. Of course there is everything to say for that, but the Dutch middle class gets it hard and also starts to notice the financial consequences of the continuous burden increase. The towering burdens which the current policy will only increase in the coming years will be perceived as a bitter pill. And that bitter pill for the middle class is getting pulverized. I was just talking about that. An affordable care is not created by continuously increasing burdens, but by properly organising the system. The bill does not prevent unwanted care avoidance in the Health Insurance Act. Nor does the bill reduce the accumulation of own payments. The measure does not aim at a specific income policy, as is claimed. Freezing one's own risk would undoubtedly lead to an increase in the premium. The loss of income of all these millions as a result of this measure is fully compensated by additional increases in the nominal contribution-income-dependent contribution. So that looks like a cardigan pocket, a cigar from your own box. Perhaps the Minister could respond and perhaps reassure the PVV Group. As far as we are concerned, the phenomenon of "own risk" completely misses out on its purpose. Is the theory still working with the practice? We need a new vision of healthcare costs. The GP is the gatekeeper for the corridor to the hospital, to the specialist, to the second line and not the patient's wallet. The general practitioners I have spoken to also have great concern about the content of basic insurance, which is getting more and more undressed, and the huge waiting times in mental health care, in particular, and in emergency care. In practice, it appears that many people are at risk. For many insured persons, a quarter, their own risk means that they avoid the necessary treatment of a specialist. This will lead to lower costs in the short term, but even higher costs in the longer term. Not affordability, but the quality of our healthcare system is at stake. In the House of Representatives, Mrs Agema indicated that a couple with a shared income of once modal is even outside the care allowance scheme. The burdens for the ordinary people who are outside are already sky high. Then the argument is that there is no other option because otherwise health care will become priceless. Well, Mr President, the failure to abolish the dividend tax on multinationals could bring considerable relief to many Dutch households. And what about the fact that the Dutch Healthcare Authority has not been able to make binding agreements with the healthcare sector on the transparency of hospital rates? Hospital rates appear to be very different between them. There is no uniformity in the cost of comparable treatments. There is no transparency of hospital rates and how they have been achieved. Rates above the maximum own risk are secret, because of information sensitive to competition. The steering effect of the own risk is therefore 0.0. That is a bad thing when you consider that because of your own risk patients have to pay for many treatments themselves. And what is the Minister going to do to improve the transparency of hospital tariffs in the short term? For the middle groups in our society, accessibility to care is also becoming increasingly difficult. Due to the high own risk, people with low income who are not eligible for financial compensation, and/or who have a chronic illness, are more likely to avoid care. This is a matter of great concern to the PVV. The GP estimates whether a consultation in the hospital is relevant or of added value, and whether there is a need for medication. Thus, instead of maintaining that own risk, the Minister would be better able to facilitate the general practitioner by giving him more time for a consultation and for them to carry out more tasks. That is possible and there is also support for the general practitioners. Now that turning on the traditional buttons of the premium and its own risk, aimed at reducing the basic package, has stalled, alternatives must be sought urgently. Is the minister or the government already working on that? The PVV is for a decoupling of its own risk and care costs and prefers to see its own risk reduced, but even abolished. There is talk of avoiding follow-up. That means reducing the quality of health care. Therefore, the PVV is a great advocate of eliminating its own risk. The legal own risk is really not a contribution to keeping the care affordable. We need to get rid of that idea. An affordable care is created by government policy of common sense and by proper organisation of the healthcare system. I'm closing up. The only right path is to start with a reduction of and ultimately the elimination of the legal own risk and strengthening the GP as gatekeeper. Does the Minister agree and if not, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u16	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u17	Mr. Chairman. I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Party for Animals. Last year, around this time, we had a very special debate in procedural terms. A hearing of the Second and First Chambers on the same day. A lot of parliamentary pressure for a small legal emergency solution to ensure that the indexation of the own risk of health insurance, not to mention €15, would be avoided for the year 2018. Today we are discussing the follow-up, namely the freezing of the indexation of the own risk of health insurance for the next three years. With the final result no further increase in the own risk of health insurance up to 2021. Our group and that of the PvdD are looking at the draft bill before us with mixed feelings. The subject of own risk is a subject on which we, as a socialist party, have had a strong opinion for a long time. I dare say that without actions by our party and those of the National Health Fund, aimed at eliminating one's own risk, we would not have a debate today on freezing this indexation. In our view, therefore, this debate is profitable. If we, as political groups, look at the substance of this bill, the harvest in our view is only lean. The own risk will be set at the maximum of €385 over the next three years. The own risk does not increase to €445 in 2021. The care premium is increasing, because the financial square must of course remain closed. Mr President, this draft law is therefore virtually reducing its own risk. The future effect for an insured person who fully pays his mandatory own risk and receives a health care allowance is €31, in 2021, end of the term of this law. A modest financial handout to the insured is appropriate in a broader package of adjacent measures around limiting the own contributions of the WMO and the Long-Term Care Act. Especially when I compare this with abolishing the dividend tax, there is a lack of revenue for the State about 2 billion. A reduction in the own risk would have been a real step for the SP and PvdD groups. The financial consequences of this bill have been highlighted to two decimal places. So is the purpose of this bill. According to the explanatory memorandum, this bill fits into a package of measures to reduce the accumulation of own payments in healthcare and support. This with the aim of keeping the care costs that come on their own account affordable. After all, personal payments in care and support should not lead people to abandon necessary care or support for financial reasons. This quote comes from the explanatory memorandum. We read in the present bill that avoiding care is undesirable. The freezing of one's own risk therefore serves to prevent care avoidance. Of course, we already knew that our own risk was raised so that citizens do not use care too quickly. The explanatory memorandum states: "The financial incentive for insured persons to exercise restraint with regard to the use of care'. But having read all this, I'm still confused. Abandonment of care is considered undesirable by the Minister, but we should be encouraged as insured persons to be reluctant to use care. A bill with a seemingly double message. In replying to our written questions on the desirability and desirability of avoiding care, the Minister states that this desirability depends on the necessity of care. This is a health-related consideration, in which, in addition to the insured person, an aid provider is involved. The government does not apply any criteria in this respect, according to the Minister. An answer that can also be used in different directions. Our role as First Chamber is to test legislation for clarity, feasibility, scope and also legal coherence. I ask the Minister how to assess this double message of the desirability and non-desirability of avoiding care in this draft law. In doing so, how does the Minister explain to the insured persons that they are helped a little financially by freezing their own risk, to avoid unwanted care avoidance, but continue to pay their own risk in order to stimulate desired care avoidance? Our groups are really curious about the Minister's response to this. As far as I am concerned, this double message in this legislative proposal is the result of a gross way of regulating the system. The legislative proposal seems to be based on a political idea that care is only a cost, that insurance is only financial risks, damages, and should be stimulated financially. With the report Weten is not yet done by the Scientific Council for Government Policy in mind, I ask the Minister why it does not look more broadly such as the effects and consequences of the care avoidance and it involves in its policy weighing up on the desirability and undesirableness of the care avoidance, Care-avoidance is a matter of fact. The report by Nivel Insight in Care Avoides, and also the latest report by Nivel, on the knowledge of the insured persons about their own payments within the Health Insurance Act, show this. There are still many in-depth questions about the nature and extent of care avoidance. But what are the consequences, the effects of care avoidance? This question is only briefly answered by the Minister to our written questions. Surely our minister should be very curious about the effects of desired and unwanted care avoidance on individual well-being, active participation, employability and human functioning, but also at society level? Surely he would like to quantify this, his hands itchy to get a look at this and use it in his further policy? I don't see any itchy hands yet. Financial management of the implementation practice and its different effects on insured persons are then balanced? Now the SP Group understands that assessing the content of individual impacts at a group level as a result of implementation policies, such as this bill, is not easy. But in our view, the Minister is obliged to make an effort here. Isn't the Minister also interested in what the freezing of one's own risk to personal, social and financial returns? Is the Minister prepared, through the President, to examine the various dimensions of the effects of care avoidance? Or at least consider the feasibility of such an investigation? Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. This bill is nothing more than a modest financial handout towards a group of insured persons with which the government simultaneously steers on desired and unwanted care. A bill with a double message. The effects of care avoidance are not included in this bill. This reveals the limitations of the legislative proposal. The SP Group and the Party for Animals are not satisfied with this bill. The own risk will not be reduced. People who are sick just keep paying their own risk, their fine on being sick. This modest temporary legal assistance hardly changes anything. That's disappointing! We look forward to the Minister's answer to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u18	Thank you, Mr. Don. I give the floor to Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u19	Mr. Chairman. Soon we will receive them again by e-mail or in our mailbox: the new policies and premium proposals for health insurance. Healthcare insurers try to make it clear that their approach, the supplementary insurance they offer, the service they provide, combined with the premium they propose for the policy, must be the reason for choosing them. It is very tempting to think in this debate about the difficulties that people have in understanding what the differences between policies are, and as a result many people do not know for which package and which health insurance provider they can choose best. As we know, it would be worth a lovely thing to the PvdA if the forest were to be thinned into policies, to make the choice clearer, more meaningful and easier. I suspect that this is a subject that will also be on the agenda of the VWS committee in the next few months, because in the current approach there is too much to choose without it being clear what the real difference is. This does not help people who want to be sure that they choose the right care policy for their personal situation. Today, in this debate, we are restricting ourselves to the part of the health insurance policy where there is no choice for insured persons: the mandatory own risk for everyone from 18 years of age. As the government writes in the answer to the questions to the bill: the level of the mandatory own risk is a political choice. What the government intends to do with its own risk and in consequence with the freezing of its own risk has not become sharp for my group on the basis of the legal treatment so far, and we hope to get a better view of this in this debate. The question of what the benefit of a nominal own risk to care has been discussed, written and researched since the 1990s. Over and over again, two main reasons for a mandatory own risk arise: co-paying to the cost of care, according to the principle of "user pays" and setting a threshold to use care. When we look at the co-paying, everyone in the Netherlands agrees that it should not lead to the avoidance of necessary care. On this point, the government's answers in the legal process have so far been confusing. Mr Don also mentioned it. The government writes that it wants to promote, with the mandatory own risk, that care for everyone remains affordable. However, the government does not intend to pursue a specific income policy with the measure, as stated in the government's written replies. To the question raised about a standard of risk solidarity, the government answers that this is a political choice. As is well known, the position of the PvdA in this regard is clear: everyone must be sure that necessary care is available and affordable. This is not good in the current system for those groups that have less health skills and poor health. Our answer to this is: therefore remove the mandatory own risk so that financial thresholds do not hinder the use of care and capture the extra costs with a small tax increase or use the financial resources left over if you do not abolish the dividend tax. The government doesn't choose this. The bill we are discussing today is a lean bid: the level of the mandatory own risk will be held at €385 until 2021. The government indicates that this will strike a responsible balance between the own financial responsibility that can be demanded from an insured person himself and the part of the healthcare costs that is collectively financed. We would like to ask the Minister to explain why he thinks the balance is justified. Certainly there is evidence that low income groups do not care because of the costs involved. How do you know that care for everyone remains affordable if you do not take into account the income position of insured persons, the members of the PvdA Group ask the Minister. This brings us to the point of creating a financial threshold to use care. Such a threshold can be interesting if the basic package does not include necessary care, or if the system is designed in such a way that people receive care when there is no need for it. For many years now, however, the Health Insurance Act in our country only covers care that we collectively consider necessary. We have chosen the GP as a gatekeeper and not to raise a threshold for general practitioner care. For this reason, there is no risk of the general practitioner's visit and the general practitioner's post being paid. If follow-up care is prescribed by the general practitioner, such as a reference to another primary care provider or hospital or medication, it seems important for the members of the PvdA group to actually receive this care. We assume that general practitioners prescribe follow-up care because this care is necessary. In fact, for financial reasons dispensing from necessary care can lead to much higher care costs in a later phase. It should not be remembered that after referring to the general practitioner, people do not go to an oncologist or internist because of their own risk, later on when the symptoms increase and then irreparable damage has already occurred with high follow-up costs, for example because of cancer, a cerebral haemorrhage or a myocardial infarction. Isn't setting a financial threshold for necessary follow-up care inconsistent if you opt for a system with a GP as gatekeeper? We are curious to see how the Minister views this. Mr. Chairman. The government's response does not express any confidence in the current system and the professionalism of general practitioners and other care providers. After all, the government calls on people to ask themselves in a number of cases whether follow-up care is necessary, as stated in the written replies to this Chamber. In what cases, then, the members of the PvdA Group wonder. Should you be happy if about 30% of people do not pick up a medicine prescribed by the general practitioner, even if that percentage is less than ten years ago? Then how do you know it's not necessary care? The government states in its reply that this bill is not intended to prevent unwanted care avoidance. The Minister himself writes that there is a lack of care for certain groups. How does the Minister intend to prevent people with small grants and/or poor health skills from giving up follow-up care? If the Minister is aware of the extent to which care avoids the risk and the damage caused by it, the members of the PvdA Group are wondering. It is striking that the government, in response to questions relating to care avoidance, answers that the legislative proposal even has a positive effect in terms of individual well-being, active participation, employability and human functioning. We would like to hear from the Minister what this means and how the government has reached this conclusion. My group also wonders what the lack of confidence in general practitioners means for the policy the Minister is pursuing with the main agreements on curative care. Shifting care from the so-called second to the first line presupposes trust in the GP and other professionals outside the hospital. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to NIVEL's investigation into the knowledge of insured persons about their own payments within the Health Insurance Act and the reaction of the government to this report. Before I go into the substance of this report, I would like to thank the Minister for sending this insightful report to this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. One of the reasons given by the PvdA to take part in this debate was the disappointing response to questions from the CDA that we have joined. The question was how the government will inform citizens about keeping one's own risk equal. The government refers in the written replies to publications on the government agreement on the government website and concludes that "the shifts made by this bill are clear to the citizen'. Apparently, the government assumed that the government site is the source where people get their information. Does the Minister now consider that considering the results of the NIVEL study on the level of knowledge of insured persons about their own payments in the Health Insurance Act and the possibilities for compensation, in the meantime, differently? And if so, what conclusions does that lead to? The researchers of the NIVEL conclude that older people, low-income people, low-education and/or low-experienced health, know less about their own risks. There is a good chance that they will make the wrong choices for health insurance and avoid necessary care. We cannot accept this, the Group of the Party of European Socialists believes. It is precisely for these groups that the government has a particular responsibility and the task of ensuring that the system is understandable and accessible. Only 16% of respondents know that the care allowance is a contribution to their own risk. So there's a lot more work to be done. Does the Minister agree with my group on this point and, if so, how is he going to change this? Moreover, if we take account of the fact that the NIVEL has worked with a voluntary panel and that the researchers themselves say that vulnerable groups are lacking in this research, there is a good chance that in practice not 60% but even fewer people, perhaps less than half of the Dutch, will understand what their own risk is, what they have to pay themselves, for which and where they can be justified for financial compensation, and that even less than one third of the insured understands what is meant by spreading their own risk. Mr. Chairman. In the letter the government wrote about the NIVEL report to the House of Representatives, the main solution is to strengthen campaigns on the social media. How seriously does the Minister take the advice given by the WRR in the report Kenten is not yet doing, a realistic perspective of resiliency? The PvdA Group wonders if it reads this reaction. Does the Minister really think that commercials will make the complex problem of own payments for health insurance better land with these groups? In the letter of 29 June last year, the government gave an interim view of the implementation of its response to the WRR report. It states that the preparation of policies will be based on a new quality requirement for performance and the Performance Test, which will take into account the perspective of citizens in the implementation tests of measures, that behavioral insights will be taken into account in policy, implementation, monitoring and communication, and that consideration will be given to how the threshold for using surcharges can be reduced as far as possible. How has this been shaped in the drafting of the bill that we are discussing today? The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats cannot imagine the conclusion that an information campaign and the encouragement of local authorities to set up an information point are sufficient. What makes the Minister suggest this and not more firmly committed to measures to ensure that people with reduced capacity increase their knowledge of their own payments in the Health Insurance Act? Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the following. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is convinced that there must and can be more than good information and that we need a fundamental rethink of the system of own payments under the Health Insurance Act. The current system stands in the way of accessibility for people who need care in particular, such as the elderly, chronically ill and those with reduced health skills. If, after ten years of working with one's own risk, with one's own payments and compensation options for people with high care costs, almost half of the Dutch do not know what the situation is, should we not recognise that the system is too complicated and leads to unwanted care avoidance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u20	I would like to respond to an earlier statement by Mrs Nooren. She wants to increase knowledge of her own payments in healthcare. Then I'm just thinking. What if you were to increase that knowledge? People thought they didn't have to pay anything, but they have to pay something. So what's the result?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u21	That people know what's going on, because that's what it's about. The research of the NIVEL is about that people don't understand... I do not know if Mrs Prast has read the report, but the Minister has, on the basis of previous questions, commissioned an investigation by NIVEL into the knowledge of the Health Insurance Act and its own payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u22	What I mean is this. I keep hearing comments this afternoon about people avoiding care that they shouldn't avoid, because that care costs money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u23	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u24	But I also hear a call to increase people's knowledge that it costs money. I'm having a hard time getting these two together. About the NIVEL report, I can say that... I don't want to be too critical, but as a scientist, you never put a lot of faith in the results of panels that came in by self-selection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u25	I think it would be a good thing if Mrs Prast asked the Minister a question about this, because on the basis of that report, the Minister did use policy. So that's gonna be an interesting debate. It is a fact that there are currently own payments in the Health Insurance Act. There is a mandatory own risk, there is a voluntary own risk and there are own payments, for example for tools. Those are facts that we have to deal with. If it were up to the PvdA Group and the speakers who spoke before me, we would say: eliminate that own risk. As long as it's there, it's important that people know what's going on. One thing people don't know is that you get a care allowance and that it's also meant for one's own risk. That's what the NIVEL investigation shows. I think that's wider when you ask that question to the general population. What we advocate as a PvdA Group? We believe in a strong citizen, then it is useful if the citizen knows what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u26	The whole idea that, if you inform people, it doesn't lead to a certain behavior, is one of the behavior insights. So I don't understand why Mrs. Nooren is now pleading for more knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u27	I advocate that... It's important that people know what's going on. That's what the Minister himself writes. There are a lot of interventions for that. We also see that groups entitled to the healthcare allowance do not make use of it. It seems to me that D66, with the Labour Party, thinks that's a missed opportunity. At the same time, for example, people do not know what to pay for their own risks. That's what was asked in the NIVEL study. We're going back to 2015. Then we had the big system change in the General Law Special Disease Cost. At that time, there was also a substantial reduction in the use of the general practitioner, while we were not part of that system change at all. It is conceivable that this has led to unwanted effects, which makes people wrongly not to go to the GP. So it's important that you, even with D66, stand for a system where people know what's going on, so that they make use of the possibilities that suit them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u28	I would like to say the following to Mrs Nooren. Knowledge also leads to stoning. For there are also many groups that do have knowledge, but find that they find it unfair that they do not qualify for this care allowance. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u29	Knowledge is a stoning, and I believe that this has led to voting behaviour. The system of payment of care is a collective good. It is a task of the government to achieve the accessibility of care. Then we are talking about the affordability of this. The fact that this knowledge leads to stoning will lead to a certain voting behaviour. Our position is clear. We've worked for ten years at our own risk. We see that groups such as the elderly, people with chronic illness and people with low incomes are going to avoid that risk. That is why we say: we are out of control in this instrument. Ideally, if we were only in charge, we would abolish this instrument and look at an income-dependent own payment of care costs. That fits the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u30	Mrs Nooren quite rightly says that stoning leads to votes. Unfortunately, the PvdA has not shown this. Can I conclude from this that from now on the Labour Party is going to focus more on the people it should stand for? Those are the middle groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u31	I think that's what we're focusing on. But that is not what this debate is about, let us say. I'll take a look at the chairman. I had stayed with the unwanted care avoidance and the understanding of one's own payments. There are alternative models where, with the same money, the system is smarter designed. The proposal is to set up the system in such a way that people can see at the beginning of the year what they have to pay. In doing so, they can easily fulfil their obligations and easily receive compensation for their situation. It fits the ambition of this cabinet to work on the recommendations of the WRR report Weten is not yet doing anything. The essence of the opinion is that you have to design the default in laws and regulations in such a way that: if you do nothing, then you are right. We call on the Minister to seriously examine alternatives to the current system of own payments. Several suggestions have already been made in recent years, such as the proposal of the Health and Society Council to transfer the healthcare allowance directly to health insurers. To ensure privacy, we propose to limit this to the amount of the mandatory own risk, as long as there is, and to transfer the rest of the benefit to the insured person himself. Is the Minister prepared to explore alternatives to the current system of own payments in the Health Insurance Act and share the results with this Chamber and, of course, with the House of Representatives? If so, how long does he intend to carry out such an exploration? And if not, why not? Mr President, I come to a conclusion. The Dutch health care system is good and we can all be proud of that. It is important that we shape the healthcare system and its financial role in such a way that access to the necessary care is guaranteed for everyone. According to the PvdA's fraction, stabilising one's own risk is a lean step not to raise the threshold for people dependent on care even higher. In order to make people aware of their own payments and to avoid the need for care, more will have to be done than an information campaign and calling on local authorities to shoulder their responsibilities. The PvdA Group calls on the Minister not to leave it with today's bill as far as its own payments for the Health Insurance Act are concerned. It calls on the Minister to be ambitious and to do everything as a system manager to shape the healthcare system in such a way that everyone gets the care needed to maintain or acquire good health.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u32	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. I give the floor to Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u33	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a bill to fix the mandatory own risk for health insurance at €385 per insured person per year for the next three years. 50PLUS is fundamentally opposed to one's own risk and wants to abolish financial penalties for being ill. A first step could be to significantly reduce the own risk to, for example, €200 per year, whether gradually divided over three years or not. But this cabinet chooses to maintain, even in economically better times, only the too high own contribution of €385. The extreme increase in own contribution took place in 2013 as a kind of emergency measure to put public finances in order. In that year the contribution was increased from €220 to €350 and since then it steadily increased. In particular, it disproportionately penalises the elderly, who have not been given an index of their pensions for many years. After all, older people are at greater risk of getting health complaints. Instead of reducing its own risk, this cabinet prefers to abolish the dividend tax, a raison of EUR 2 billion. It is incomprehensible to 50PLUS that such a political choice is made in economically favourable times, especially since both the Christian Union and the CDA had promised the electorate in their election programmes to bring down their own contribution significantly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u34	Mrs Baay just said that older people are at greater risk of illness. But they don't pay a higher premium. Then we'll be very supportive of the elderly, won't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u35	Older people will, of course, also make more use of referrals to specialists and so on. This means that their own contribution and their own risk will automatically be fully met. In that respect, they are indeed the victims, compared to healthy, younger people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u36	Mrs. Prast, would you like to respond? No? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u37	Moreover, this freeze of one's own risk is in fact a wash nose. After all, the cost of the freezing is paid from an increase in the nominal care premium by €34 for each insured person. Of course we welcome the fact that our own risk will not be increased over the next three years, but it is a cigar from our own box. Mr. Chairman. The notes following the report of 1 June 2018 and 17 August of this year state: "The mandatory own risk aims, among other things, to ensure that insured persons ask themselves again whether the use of care is really necessary." I don't understand this sentence. After all, a patient who is prescribed medicines by his GP, the gatekeeper for follow-up care, is not wondering whether what the doctor recommends and advises is really necessary? In fact, the Minister says that a patient should not rely on the expertise of the general practitioners. The GP, as gatekeeper, already has a brake effect on the follow-up care. He has the expertise to assess whether or not someone needs that care. Should I interpret this sentence in the notes in such a way that, when he himself receives a referral from his doctor, the Minister will first ask himself whether this is necessary? If not, why ask the citizen that question? I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Mr. Chairman. What is the other objective of the mandatory own risk, I ask the Minister. After all, medical care must be paid and medical treatment expensive is well known. But 50PLUS is convinced that these high care costs are not caused by unnecessary use of care, but by quite different factors such as wasted bureaucracy, waste and overhead costs. Chronically ill people and people who need a lot of care are all too well aware of the costs. In fact, some of them are going to avoid any follow-up care with all the bad consequences of that. It is a fact that the level of the own contribution is related to care avoidance. This is also recognised by patient organisations and general practitioners. Moreover, a number of people are still under the impression that a visit to the general practitioner also has an impact on their own risk, as Mrs Nooren has already mentioned. Is the Minister aware of this? Does he know how many people we're talking about? What is he going to do about adequate information? Almost everyone thinks that care avoids necessary care is an undesirable situation, but apparently it is not undesirable for this cabinet to take a final step once and for all towards a structural reduction of one's own risk. After all, this legislative proposal has only a limited period of validity. After 2021, there is no guarantee that an increase in own risk will not occur again. According to calculations, the own risk would be around €460, while the vast majority of the Dutch population already consider the amount of €385 to be far too high. Does the Minister agree with 50PLUS that affordable and accessible care should be the starting point for every insured person in the Netherlands and that care avoidance should not occur in a country like the Netherlands purely for financial reasons? I'd like a response from the Minister. In the belief of 50PLUS, it is a missed opportunity not to take steps already to curb the rise in healthcare costs by providing tailor-made care closer to home and investing in prevention. Mr. Chairman. I have another question that falls outside this legislative proposal, but which is directly related to and related to its own risk. I received a number of letters in which the letter writers wondered who would pay the medical costs that would be related to organ donation. After all, for organ donation, staying in a hospital is a requirement. This often makes up for the risk of doing so. This means that the next of kin would have to pay these costs. The letter writers wondered how this payment relates to the life-saving gesture to be a donor. Can the Minister clarify this? Finally. Again, it is very disappointing that this cabinet chooses to allocate money to abolish the dividend tax, cost 2 billion, but not to reduce its own contribution. Even by a prominent VVD member named Wiegel, the dividend tax is described as a lurid thriller in which no one believes anymore except the Prime Minister. In order to avoid an increase in the own contribution, our group will necessarily choose to fix its own contribution at €385 to 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u38	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I give the floor to Mrs Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To Mrs Baay: I think Mr Poolman of Unilever also understands the dividend tax, so at least there are two. Madam President. A year ago, we were discussing the freezing of our own risk for health insurance for 2018 here with Minister Schippers. I then agreed to quote a column by Frank Kalshoven which he had written in the Volkskrant in response to a list leader debate for the Dutch Parliamentary Elections. Frank Kalshoven wrote: "People do not choose to get sick. People don't choose to get a flat tire. People don't go to the doctor for fun. People don't go to the bikemaker for fun." Frank Kalshoven wanted to express that the argument of some parties that just being sick is something that happens to you and what isn't funny is not a good reason to provide care for free, i.e. without your own risk, and also that the own risk in the care is no more a fine on being sick.I heard Mrs Baay say: punishment for being ill...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Let me explain something. I'm not a car driver myself, so this subject is beyond my experience. Paying to park somewhere where you can park is something other than parking somewhere where you are not allowed to park and then get a fine. Mr. Chairman. We're talking today about the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u40	Maybe it's good to ask Mrs. Prast a question. Care isn't free. Everyone pays an income-dependent premium for that. So the assumption that care is free if you don't have your own risk is not correct in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u41	I meant to say, if you're unlucky enough to have a flat tire, you have to pay for it. If you live in the Netherlands, you will all contribute to the health insurance. Not everyone gets sick. If you're unlucky enough to get sick, you pay your own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u42	Let me make a comparison with another insurance, because that seems to me to be a good comparison. There are a lot of insurances where, for example, you can buy off your own risk. You can't do that in the Health Insurance Act. That's why I started with: there's nothing to choose for the Dutchman. By way of derogation from other insurances, the Health Insurance Act is an insurance policy in which, in this case, the policy takes the decision that everyone is obliged to pay the first €385 himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u43	There are indeed insurances where you can buy off your own risk. There are also insurances in which that is not possible. It would require a study to discover a system in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u44	Mrs. Prast, we have different world views after all. You talk about a flat tire and a car and I think about people who are sick, sometimes occasionally, who can be helped, but also to people who are chronically ill. To then lay down a mechanism of action... A flat tire is an inconvenience, but a disease can sometimes be life-threatening. To connect a control mechanism for your behavior; I can see a big difference between that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u45	Mr Don is talking about a steering mechanism. I don't see it that way. You have bad luck that something happens to you and you have to pay €32 a month and no more. I don't see that as a steering mechanism. I see it as: you also pay for it because you are unlucky to be sick or chronically ill. The analogy with the bike, the bicycle tire.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u46	That is always the danger of a comparison: omnis comparative claudicat, i.e. any comparison is limp. Always tricky!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u47	I can feel it, Madam President. I won't use any more equations in this. You mean €32 extra per month, Mrs. Prast, because you already pay your insurance premium. You're already paying an income-dependent premium. So you pay that $32. Just the standard normal distribution for the population: 75% of the population will be able to afford that well, at ease. A report has recently been published, a factsheet of the Scientific Council for Government Policy on socio-economic health differences. Then you see that group we're talking about. For that, the €32 is very relevant and very money. What doesn't matter to you and me, that €32 a month, doesn't matter. I'm talking about a system where you say, guys, let's now collectively carry those burdens together for the group that doesn't get it picked up. And you're saying they'll have to pay the $32 anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u48	It is a fact that the health differences in the Netherlands, after the differences in education and income, are very large. After Germany, they are the largest in Europe and I find that very worrying. The fact that some groups are expected to use care more, but they do not have to pay a higher premium than other groups, is a very social system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u49	Finally, Mr. Don, at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u50	My final point, Mr President. Then I'll finish. Yes, there's our difference of opinion, Mrs. Prast. As far as I am concerned, this €32 should not end up with that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u51	We are talking about a welfare state, in which certain collective provisions have been created, such as utilities, but also health care. Previously, in the debate on organ donation, guarantees were compared with vacuum cleaners. Now we have something like that again. Can we conclude that the welfare state of D66 no longer cares and that it wants to throw everything into the market? Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u52	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u53	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u54	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the financing of care, so money. I'll get back to you on that. But before I do, I'd like to put the subject in a broader perspective. Care needs not only financial resources but also people, whether it is care within the basic package or beyond. Louis Couperus says in The little souls Aunt Constance says that money is "le moindre de mes soucis." In her case, it's not. Of course, that's why Couperus often makes her say that, like a mantra. But in the case of health care in the Netherlands, it currently seems that money is really le moindre de nos soucis, because the care sector has a large number of unfulfilled vacancies. There's money to hire people, but the people aren't there. In his Action Programme Working in the Care of March youngest people, the Minister writes that the shortage of employees is one of the most important challenges for everyone who has something to do with care and well-being. There is already too little supply of care staff, but in the absence of any policy, this is growing further and, according to the Ministry's publication in 2022, there is a shortage of 100,000 to 125,000 healthcare workers. In the future, the Ministry's ambition is a deficit of zero or close to it, including by educating more people. My group hopes that this will be sufficient and would point out that, in the meantime, the more scarce the workforce is, the more important it is to use it where the need is highest. Back to the money: the freezing of the own risk until 2021. I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill. In our view, an increase in the premium for all, from the point of view of solidarity of sick people with healthy health, should be preferable to an increase in their own risk, which would be borne by only half of those insured, i.e. those who take full responsibility for their own risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u55	A very brief question to Mrs Prast. You mentioned a projected shortage of employees in the future, but also now. Is that a separate message you want to send or is there also a connection to the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u56	No, there's no connection to the bill in that sense. Let me leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u57	At the same point. What you find is that the deficits in care are partly solved by self-employed people without staff. This also includes 21% VAT. In my group's view, this is a deterioration in the financial situation of the care sector. Making sure that no self-employed person can work in care without staff could be a way of reducing the cost of care. Does Mrs. Prast have any ideas about that? There are shortages in care, people leave duty and come back and then 150% of the normal income of 100% is paid. It would be nice if you called on the cabinet to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u58	Thank you for this question. I'm gonna have to take a look at that. I'm coming to the end of my story. I have already said that we believe that an increase in the premium for everyone from the point of view of solidarity of sick and healthy is preferable to an increase in their own risk. At the same time, maintaining one's own risk in care is important for the reason I mentioned at the beginning of my contribution: being sick happens to you and is unpleasant doesn't mean you don't have to pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Prast. Mr. Don?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u60	I have one final question for Mrs Prast. You have heard me argue about the effects of care-avoidance. Do you agree with me that there are effects of care avoidance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u61	Care-avoidance, avoiding necessary care, is resentful and has health effects. Of course, you want to promote the non-seeking of unnecessary care. We talked about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u62	Do you agree with me...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u63	Finally, Mr. Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u64	My final question, Madam President. I'm sorry I didn't ask you that earlier. Would it not be interesting, Mrs Prast, to take a closer look at the phenomenon of care avoidance and its effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u65	That's interesting. To my knowledge, there is no research with a scientifically convincing basis that shows that there is unwanted care avoidance. May I add one last comment? Suppose we all didn't buy soap and toothpaste, would that have an effect on health in the Netherlands? I think so. Is it in the basic package? No. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u66	Thank you again, Mrs Prast. I give the floor to Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u67	Thank you. Madam President, I am speaking today on behalf of the Christian Union Group on the draft law on leaving one's own risk unchanged in the Health Insurance Act. The bill is not so complicated in itself. The intention to leave the mandatory own risk unchanged until 2021 is stated in the coalition agreement, it is not legally particularly complex, the Council of State did not have too serious concerns and a very large majority of the House of Representatives voted in favour. The groups of the CDA and the Christian Union will also follow the coalition agreement in this Chamber and vote in favour of the proposal. If I do make a few comments and ask questions, I will do so from a slightly broader perspective than this proposal in a narrower sense. The minister has been there for almost a year and has just returned from a holiday in which he hopefully has been able to rest and have some thought. I therefore hope to challenge him to a slightly broader consideration. In my view, colleagues have done their best to do this. In that respect, I look forward to an interesting evening. To this end, I should like briefly to highlight the issues of communication, risk solidarity and cost management in the care sector, all of which have to do with this legislative proposal. First of all, the communication. Mrs Nooren mentioned it as well. "Unchanged from the mandatory own risk," the bill was baptized. Something more popular: freeze your own risk. The fact that the proposed measure has an additional increase in the nominal premium is not mentioned in the name of the measure and in this legislative proposal. Isn't that a little misleading? Although official publications point to the consequence of the freezing, the picture is different. Now the impression may be created that the contribution of citizens to care remains the same, but that is certainly not the case. It is good to name that again and to ask for a response from the Minister. Then there's risk solidarity, Mr. Chairman. We are shifting the risk, and the burden involved, towards those citizens who use relatively little care and do not "fill" their own risks. After all, they will soon be paying more premiums. It is acidic, especially for people just above all premium limits, who have to pay the full amount of the premium increase for a still modest income. On the other hand, higher incomes, which make up their own risk each year, also benefit from the freeze. No matter how you turn it or turn it, it doesn't feel right. But, in response to the Council of State's advice and our questions about it, the government says now you're talking about income solidarity, and the bill is about risk solidarity, and that's independent of income policy. Mr President, I think Mr Don would like to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u68	Mr. Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u69	Colleague, through the President, every change, including in previous years, was this subject, was it not? If you increase your own risk, it will have consequences for contributions, for those who receive a health care allowance and for those who do not receive a health care allowance. It's not a new issue you're raising now, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u70	No, that is not a new issue either, but let us say that there is a new cabinet and a new minister, and that is why it is quite interesting to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u71	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u72	Good. Mr President, as I said, with the observation that it is not about income but about risk solidarity, the observation by the Council of State was also disarmed that there might have been more targeted measures to support people for whom the high own risk is a financial problem. However, I believe that the latter problem was the background to the proposals, especially when we consider what was said about them during the election campaigns last year. The introduction of the passage in question in the coalition agreement is not for nothing 'we think it is important that care is affordable for everyone'. I would like to hear again from the Minister what, in his view, is the real background to the proposed measure: is it a risk-sharing issue or is it a question of affordability? Should it be the latter, perhaps the Minister would also like to reflect on the system of supplements and other targeted measures, which the Council of State also considered to be conceivable? Could a more targeted reduction of the burden be achieved in the future than through the relatively coarse instrument that is now being used, even if it is officially for a different purpose? I am very curious to hear the Minister's response. It is also interesting, as far as our political groups are concerned, that the government wants to revive the "old" system in this proposal after 2021, thus increasing its own risk. The government could also have arranged for decisions on risk solidarity to be taken on an annual basis, for example. But apparently this cabinet thinks that in 2021 the desired ratios were achieved in risk solidarity? I'd like to hear from the Minister if he is. A new cabinet and a new chamber can of course always decide differently, but from the choice to re-introduce the system, I conclude that this cabinet does not want to go any further. This government is proposing to the current legislator a system in which its own contribution will increase again from 2021 onwards. So does the cabinet think that risk solidarity is the right thing to do, and is it asking us to confirm that? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Finally, the question of controlling the cost of care, especially that part that is financed by the public. In the end, this is the issue behind a great deal of legislation in the field of the VWS Ministry, as well as behind this proposal. In my opinion, you have essentially three buttons to turn on if you want to control the public-funded costs as a share of GDP: you try to reduce the demand for publicly funded care, in particular by limiting the insured package, you try to control the costs, for example through broad agreements or through more or less market forces, or you work on the mix between public and private financing, for example through the introduction of your own risk. We know what is in the coalition agreement, where all these buttons are turned a bit without drastic choices. We also see contradictory movements in other legislative proposals in the VWS area, where more and less control and rules alternate. How would the long-term minister, including for the years after the present government period, prefer to see this control arranged? It would be interesting if the Minister would give some thought to this. I look forward with great interest to his answers in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u73	Thank you, Mr. Flierman. I give the floor to Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the Amendment of the Health Insurance Act to leave unchanged the mandatory own risk for healthcare insurance up to 2021. My group's main question to the Minister is about the long-term price tag of this bill, and what is the impact of this bill in terms of a structural loss of employment by increasing the collective burden on the balance compared to €30 less healthcare costs per year, for the same target group, namely the lower paid. I will explain this question in more detail in the following. The care is of high quality in our country and everyone has access to that care. According to the OECD, access in the Netherlands is even the best and most independent of socio-economic status of all the countries examined. And we don't make a distinction. Also in the premium paid, we make no distinction, except that if you have a very low income, you will be compensated for the premium or largely compensated through the care allowance. If the premium increases, the care allowance also automatically increases. This also applies mutatis mutandis to one's own risk. The balance between what is paid for in health care by people who are healthy and those who are sick is thus partly found at that own risk. Own payments, i.e. the percentage of health care paid by people themselves and not recovered from the insurance, including their own risk, amounted to 11% of healthcare costs in the Netherlands, according to the latest OECD figures in 2016, with a median of 15% in 12 comparable countries. That's a big good. The majority of health care is therefore collectively and largely dependent on income. That does not alter the fact that many people experience their own risk as a barrier. This could lead to care avoidance, and in particular unwanted care avoidance, although the data from the NIVEL that we now have seem to indicate that the increase in the mandatory own risk has not been accompanied by an increase in the number of unwanted care avoidrs, as reflected by the government in the note following the report. However, the increase in the mandatory own risk between 2011 and 2013, which 50PLUS already addressed, has been accompanied by a flattening of healthcare costs growth around 10.8% of gross national product. Of course, that doesn't prove a causal link, but it suggests something. And at least there has been a brake on the increase, which was an intended effect, but no reduction in those care costs, which seems to be in line with the absence of evidence of care avoidance. Therefore, care costs have not decreased, although their own risk has been significantly increased at that time, as 50PLUS rightly pointed out. Perhaps the Minister would like to go into this again? Then where's that care-a-fucking-ass thing? On 26 September 2017, the VVD supported the proposal to freeze its own risk in 2018, which further increased solidarity between the sick and the non-sick. Now there is this cabinet's proposal to continue the freeze at €385 until 2021, rather than a growth to €445, as calculated in the explanatory memorandum. The measure takes place within the system of the Health Insurance Act. This means that the reduction in own risk leads to an increase in the care premium.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u75	Mr. Bruijn was just talking about the OECD reports. We spend 10.7% of gross national product on healthcare costs. That is the third highest percentage in the EU. You had, I think, some other comparative material. Further on, the report also states that we spend relatively much money on care in our system compared to what we receive. So yes, you keep a rosy story, but the OECD report also puts a different accent on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u76	That 10.8% didn't come from the OECD report I mentioned. I have referred to an OECD report which shows that our concern is among the most accessible in the world, independent of socio-economic status. Apart from that, I mentioned the increase in the mandatory own risk between 2011 and 2013, which was relatively strong, as 50PLUS quite rightly pointed out; I see nodding there. And I looked at what happened with the care costs. These care costs did not fall due to the increase in own risk, but the increase fell to 10.8% of GDP. That percentage remained the same, so with an increase in GDP, care costs increased as a percentage of GDP. This does not, therefore, show any reduction in the cost of care as a result of this increase in the own risk. In addition, there is no indication that there has been a lack of care, but there has been a limitation in the growth of care. That was a desired effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u77	I think it's just a search with each other. At that time, other measures were taken, such as broad-based agreements. It was in a crisis, we were preparing the decentralisations. You yourself said that you cannot say that there is causality. But you can't turn it around either: the problem is that we don't know with each other whether the care avoidance that is taking place is justified or unjustified care avoidance, because we don't know much about it. That's what makes it so difficult. The conclusion that there is no lack of care seems to me to be too quick, especially for someone who is a professor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u78	I do not hear a question, but I would like to comment on the comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u79	I'd like to make a few briefs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u80	I didn't say that I concluded that there is no care-avoidance. I have said that in these events we find no evidence of care avoidance. Its own risk has risen considerably, care costs have not decreased. In that I see no indication that there has been a lack of care. Nor can I prove that there is no lack of concern, but I do not see the indications of what has been repeatedly claimed by several previous speakers. I do not see the clue in that and I go into the important example put forward by 50PLUS. At the time, we significantly increased our own risk, care costs did not fall. Yes, Mr. Chairman, I will continue. So that doesn't prove a causal link. There is a brake on the increase, which was an intended effect, but there has been no decrease. That seems to be in line with the lack of care-avoidance. Looks like it. Perhaps the Minister would like to go into that again. In 2017, the VVD agreed to freeze its own risk, increasing solidarity between sick and non-sick. Now there is this cabinet's proposal to freeze at €385 to 2021, instead of expanding to €445. That measure takes place within the system of the Health Insurance Act. This means that the reduction in own risk leads to an increase in the care premium. In the end, care costs must be covered by the proceeds of the own risk, plus the nominal premium, which is offset for lower incomes by the care allowance, provided that that premium increase is at least more than the reduction in the average own risk, plus the income-related contribution, plus a supplement from general resources, paid out of income-dependent taxation. For example, more than 80% of healthcare costs are paid on a collective basis. Interestingly, what has been said earlier, is that we still have a very large gap, apparently the biggest gap, between healthy and ill. This could lead to the question of whether we have made care too accessible, with the enormous amount of collective funding. Shouldn't that be reversed? Could this not lead to a reduction in the gap between healthy and ill? Perhaps the Minister would like to comment on that. Mr. Chairman. The bill reduces the proceeds of the own risk of 413 million structurally compared to the baseline path. The bill also leads to 130 million higher expenditures for this purpose by the Labour Party has already been called into question by the Behavioural Impact on the Use of Care. That is therefore more than 0.5 billion to 2022 increase these costs. These costs are paid out of a higher income-dependent contribution and a higher nominal premium, income-dependently compensated by the care supplement. The bill leads to a €34 higher nominal premium in 2021. It will therefore also increase the cost of the healthcare allowance, which will increase by around €5 and will cost a total of 22 million. And so the overall budgetary impact of this proposed measure comes to 560 million structurally, as calculated in the explanatory memorandum. In fact, in the coalition agreement, there was an increase of 0.7 billion. Can the Minister explain this difference again? Because I couldn't find what caused this. The Council of State has also called for attention to be paid to the overall structural increase in collectively funded healthcare expenditure through this bill. The fact that measures have also been agreed in the coalition agreement that inhibit the growth of collectively funded healthcare expenditure, such as the conclusion of major agreements and various measures in the field of medicine and aids, as well as our investment in, for example, prevention, which has previously been called for, does not detract from the impact of the current bare measure itself. Such arguments and linkages could also come to fruition as the CPB considers less substantial savings due to the main agreements likely to occur when passing on the coalition agreement. So we shouldn't make that link. Mr. Chairman. So much for the budgetary impact of this measure. However, what has not been calculated, and for which I have not heard any attention, is the price that we are ultimately going to pay for this increasing collective cost of care in terms of pressure on the economy and declining structural employment, on which many people depend. What do we know about that price tag, how can we approach it? So it wasn't calculated. In its memorandum of 24 August 2015, the Central Planning Bureau calculated the structural effects of a package of measures including the elimination of its own risk, in addition to a number of other significant interventions. Overall, these changes led to a substantial negative impact on structural employment, as set out in the report, through increases in charges and further levelling. At the time, the sponsor of that report, the SP, saw no reason to ask the CPB to estimate the extent of that effect. How big could this effect be? What part of these substantial structural employment effects is reasonably due to the reduction in own risk? According to Table 7.3 in the 2015 Healthcare Choices Report in Map, the elimination of own risk results in an annual increase of 3.7 billion in expenditure. Other policy options for own payments, whether or not via a health care allowance, etc., which the Labour Party requested earlier this afternoon, have all been extensively taken into account in that report. They are all contained in that report, but perhaps the Minister would like to add something to that in his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u81	You're looking back into your CPB glass ball. You're very good at that, too. You have the models sharp in your head. Then perhaps you can help me. Because we are actually talking here about a legislative proposal with its own risk and about care avoidance, desirable and undesirable. What are the effects of this own risk on.I say the neutral care avoidance? There could also be a method of calculation, which could be a calculation. Maybe I'm just thinking in that respect, and let's take an example. The dental care is no longer in basic insurance. That means, in my opinion, that most of the people can just go to the dentist and pay for it themselves or have supplementary insurance. But for a certain percentage of the population, that really is a problem. I believe that in 2016 there was a report on this in which this was demonstrated once again. What effect do these bad teeth have on the person himself, but perhaps also on society? Did the CPB think about that, too? I'd like an answer from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u82	I have already dealt with this subject. From the data available so far that is the research of the NIVEL, those are the calculations of what happens when you significantly increase your own risk in 2015........................................................................................................................................................................................ That doesn't change the fact that that unwanted care-avoidance can be there. I've asked the Minister to go along with that. Maybe there's a clue somewhere that this unwanted care-avoidance thing is happening. We do know that the percentage of own contribution to healthcare costs in the Netherlands is the lowest of all 15 countries around us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u83	You're quantifying it. I'm asking you for numbers, too. If those bad teeth appear in a larger group of people, I imagine this. You're in a lower income category, you need to apply, you get to apply, you want to apply, and you come to your job interview with bad teeth. It has an effect. If that happens on a large scale, something can come of it that I say: yes, not having that dental care in the basic package has an effect on a collectivity. That could be calculated. You say about the NIVEL report that it does not talk about unwanted care avoidance or about desirable care avoidance. Only in the calculation to arrive at a financial closing system for our care, desired care avoidance is calculated. I'm just looking for the good words. The own risk is a form of inhibition on the use of care. This is also seen as a kind of desired care avoidance, but there is of course a qualitative effect behind that. Is that effect somehow visible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u84	The example of bad teeth is a very good example, because bad teeth are not prevented by better dental care. Bad teeth are prevented by better information about prevention. That is why we, as a collective in the Netherlands, put more than 7 billion euros a year into prevention, into knowledge, including knowledge about the role of tooth brushing in children. We have done nothing about that, even in my party's election programme. This bill isn't about that either. It has also been pointed out earlier that this prevention is important. The horse gets tense behind the cart if it is done to damage our economy in such a way that we can no longer pay for prevention and if it is said: let it happen, but we are going to solve it by better dental care. No, you can't solve that with better dental care. That's solved by prevention. So we also put a lot of resources into that. So it is a very good example of something that my party says you should avoid, because that is better than cure. Moreover, it is much more cost-effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u85	Mr. Don, very briefly. I do not want this discussion to continue indefinitely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u86	I'll be brief. Mr. Bruijn is not answering my question. Of course I follow the story of prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u87	Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u88	Yes, fine, but I used that example of dental care to see what the effect is if care is absent. You won't answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u89	I don't hear a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u90	Me neither. Mrs. Nooren, it's not about dental care, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u91	No, definitely not. The suggestion made by Mr Bruijn is that one's own risk cannot lead to a lack of care. On 13 April 2017, Van Rijn held a debate on this subject between the Dutch Parliament and the Dutch Parliament. This has shown that there are several investigations. There are studies that show that 10% of people avoid financial care. You referred to my contribution and you said that I advocate all kinds of other systems. In that debate but also afterwards it was found that people avoid caring when they do not use their own compensation options. It was about giving €32.50 out of the €90 you get to the health insurance company. Thus, people receive less care allowance (€60 instead of €90) and have already implicitly paid for their own risk of their care allowance. That was my proposal. So that was not about all possible policy options. That would be nice, but this is a little proposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u92	Mrs Nooren calls for attention to be paid to the fact that care is avoided as a result of one's own risk. That is also the intention of one's own risk. That is exactly the effect we are aiming for. It is the lowest in the world, but thanks to the SP we know that if we eliminate our own risk, the collective burden will become so high that there will be a depressing effect on the economy. That is, especially at the bottom of the labour market, a price tag that you pay. The fact that there is a lack of care is therefore desirable. You need to see if there is any desired care avoidance or unwanted care avoidance, but I do not hear that in your question. If you ask, I say that at the moment in the numbers we have, there is no evidence that there is any substantial undesirable care avoidance. That doesn't change the fact that there can be. We need to look at that very carefully. This is currently being investigated by the Ministry, but I would like to draw attention to the other side, namely overtreatment and overconsumption in healthcare. They are certainly there, because otherwise there were not so many scientific studies, even whole conferences and also attention in the training on how we deal with overconsumption and the compelling patient, who asks things that the doctor, including the general practitioner, dares not refuse. How do we deal with that? This is, to a large extent, a question of information and training, but it is also a question of a financial incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u93	Soon, Mrs. Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u94	It is too far-reaching for this debate to be extended now. My question to Mr Bruijn is what measure he believes is effective. Is it more effective to increase your own risk or is it more effective to ensure that in professionalism and in the benchmark between healthcare providers how to look at doctors' behaviour towards patients is considered?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u95	Depending on the outcome of this debate, my group might well agree to this proposal not to increase its own risk, but then we anticipate the outcome of the debate. So I might be able to answer that question tonight. Mr. Chairman. From the Keuzes report in Map 2018-2021 we know that abolishing our own risk in combination with a number of other measures will have a depressing effect on structural employment of 0.65%, or more than 45,000 full-time jobs. We know that from the pass-through of the SP's election program. And doesn't that effect mostly fall on the most vulnerable groups? According to the 2017 UWV labour market analysis, poor job growth creates a problem at the bottom of the labour market, as it is mentioned there, and creates long-term unemployment. In today's update of The Social State of the Netherlands, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau also points out these persistent differences between population groups. Given the negative correlation between level of education and healthcare consumption, as shown by the 2013 CPB's price of equal care, this could be the same group as the one that initially appears to benefit from a slightly lower own risk. For the lowest-paid................................................................................................................................................................................. For the fourth, highest disk, the marginal tax rate according to the 2015 SP note would even become so high in the package calculated there, we are talking about the Laffer curve................................................................................................................................................... In times of economic growth, it could be argued that, within the European agreements, any EMU balance is better than a 60% deficit of growth; 50PLUS also called for attention to be given to this. This follows from the agreement that the debt ratio, the public debt against GDP, may not exceed 60%, so that the increase in this quotient, which is the deficit divided by growth, may also be up to 60%. But there are also economists who believe that, for the sake of the sustainability of public finances, the roof should be repaired when the sun is shining. How does the government see this? Mr. Chairman. Let us be clear that, of course, the measures contained in the present legislative proposal are far less far-reaching and even of a totally different order than those described in the aforementioned reports, which are, however, the closest to the situation we are talking about. These reports are therefore not applicable to the current proposals, but they show the relationship between this type of measure and structural employment. It is conceivable that the impact of the current proposal will be relatively small and may even fall away from the finalisation. That would be good news. I would like to see that confirmed by the Minister. So the main question to the Minister of my group is not only about one's own risk, and I have asked questions about this, but also about the final price tag of a collective increase, which in any case is the effect of the proposed measure, the freezing of one's own risk. The question is also in which groups in society that effect falls. My group would also like to ask the Minister how this structural effect relates to that of the alternatives, namely a further reduction or elimination of one's own risk, as advocated by some, including the Patient Federation Netherlands, or a indexing of the current baseline path or an increase thereof, or the introduction of an own contribution as an alternative or additional form of brake money, some of which have been worked out budgetaryally in Table 7.3 of Healthcare Choices in Map. Finally, my group asks the Minister what the effect of this measure is on income solidarity. If your own risk were to rise to €455, an insured person receiving a health care allowance would receive an additional compensation for the increase in your own risk, regardless of whether you have to pay your own risk. So that's a transfer from many earners to less-earners. This increases income solidarity. By freezing its own risk, risk solidarity is increasing, but income solidarity is decreasing compared to the baseline path. How does the Minister see this? Mr. Chairman. My group looks forward to answering these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-8.u96	Thank you, Mr. Bruijn. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
