ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Kent on payroll constructions. In fact, however, the full title of the law is "the proposal of the law of members Gijs van Dijk, Smeulders and Van Kent amending the Law on allocation of labour by intermediaries in order to ensure that workers made available to a client under payrolling are subject to at least the same conditions of employment as workers employed in equal or equivalent jobs in the service of the client in which the posting takes place." I'm highly recommended for a slightly shorter citation title. I would like to extend a warm welcome to the initiators. It's a great right you're using here. It is always only to be applauded and words of praise are in place here for the work you have already done and are about to do. The initiators are supported by Elwin Wolters, political advisor at the PvdA Group, Meike Hellevoort, policy officer at the GroenLinks Group and Bas Maes, policy officer at the SP Group. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The response will be discussed at a later date in consultation with the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u2	I am the first speaker from the Chamber to give the floor to Mrs Kuiken of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u3	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating and congratulating the authors of the initiative proposal, which we will simply call payroll for short, because you have explained it so neatly, I can never get over it again. I know from my own experience how difficult and intensive it can be to get an initiative proposal here in this Chamber, so a big compliment for that. Mr. Chairman. It's about something, too. Because solid ground under your feet, being sure of an income, protection in case of illness and the connection and contact with your own employer: that is a basis for our labour market. But because of the increasing uncertainty, more and more people are living with uncertainty: whether they can continue to work next month, whether they still have contact with the company and whether they have the same working conditions. In countless ways, false constructions undermine that security of your work. A payroll construction and above all the way it is being carried out is an example of this. The payroll construction is a construction in which the employership is outsourced, so that for example your salary, your social contributions and your pension are carried out by a company other than the company where you work. The payroll construction was once introduced to help small businesses and start-ups, but now it has become a construction for many companies and organisations to reduce costs at the expense of people. More than 200,000 people are now affected. Let me give you a concrete example. Yesterday, a gentleman e-mailed me with a young family: "After four years of faithful service, I am now on the street. Now it turns out that in the last four years I have never had any education or education budget for me, especially by smart rules, and that I get paid again after two days in the event of illness. My pension scheme is actually much worse than a normal contract of employment. Things that I didn't think about four years ago and which I'm facing now, when I need more security with the arrival of a new child." This gentleman is an example of the many hundreds of thousands of people facing this. This inequality needs to be addressed. We want to give everyone the same security of the same terms of employment as you do the same work. The previous cabinet has begun to address the flexibilisation of the social agreement, the Fake Constructions Act and a Hamer motion adopted by the entire Chamber on the settlement of equal working conditions for payroll workers and fellow workers. The initiative proposal now before us is the implementation and realization of this. This is a joint Left offensive proposal, but also the current cabinet, the current coalition is taking important steps to counter competition on working conditions. They, too, intend to address payroll legally. However, the biggest difference between this initiative proposal and the coalition proposal is in pensions, while the pension is a very important labour condition for workers. It reduces the cost of one employee versus the cost of the other employee. If you have to pay less pension, you're more attractive than anyone else, but in the end it's dipping you as an employee. It will therefore be no surprise that we wholeheartedly support the initiative of the proposers. The aim is to bring payroll back to its original goal: not an evasion instrument but a way to take care of the employer. Mr. Chairman. I have two questions for the proposers. The alignment of payroll workers with colleagues is a good step, but are the proposers not afraid that other forms will be abused as well? I hate all kinds of jargon, but I have to call it "contracting." That is one of the new forms that will emerge. My second question. On the basis of the comments of the Council of State and the written questions, including those of the VVD, the applicants have drawn up a letter of amendment. It takes the pension contribution as the starting point instead of the pension scheme. Does this adjustment provide for the conditions for making the scheme more practicable? That was a point of attention in the original proposal. Mr. Chairman. I hope that the coalition parties will realise that teachers, journalists and the many other people working through a payroll structure cannot wait until they get equal working conditions. I would therefore ask the proposers to speed up this law so that it can enter into force as soon as possible. In the end, we all want "equal work for equal pay, with the same security." I wish the authors every success and look forward to their reply. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u5	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to the initiators. With this law, we are taking a step towards tackling the improper competition on working conditions through payrolls. Writing and defending an initiative law takes time. A great deal of appreciation for that alone. It is nice to see how the initiators of the Party of Labour, GroenLinks and SP have found each other again. Left-wing cooperation is thus once again reaching its peak after the permanent work initiative paper instead of flex. The desire to tackle unfair competition on working conditions through payrolls is widespread. In 2014, the Chamber already called for this through the Hamer motion. At the heart of the law is that payroll workers are treated just as ordinary employees in the same company. Equal pay and equal working conditions for equal work in the same place: how logical is that? Payrolls are all too often a pay model for employers, since payroll workers are not covered by the company's collective agreement and therefore lack important provisions, such as travel expenses or holiday allowances. In fact, it makes them second-class workers. We see these practices not only in companies, but also in the public authorities, in municipalities, in public broadcasting and in education. Does the government share my view that we really shouldn't want this? What does the Minister think of the FNV's research on payroll in the public service broadcasters, which recently came out? There are quite a few poignant examples, about low wages and great uncertainty, about unacceptable division in the workplace. I would like a response from the Minister, but also from the proposers. I assume they know this investigation. It makes clear how much their bill is needed. The good news is that the government also wants to tackle payroll abuse. It states that "payrolls must be avoided in order to compete on terms of employment or lead to excesses where the flexibility for the employer or client is at the expense of the worker." Very nice. And it doesn't stop, because I also see a lot of critical lyrics about payrolls in the written input. The CDA says that the adverse effects of payrolls should be addressed. D66: equal working conditions for payrollers. The SGP: unjustified inequality must be combated. I'm assuming that the VVD is also against abuse of payroll. So we're all on the same page. And if we are indeed on the same page, there is no need to wait any longer, not even the Labour Market Act in balance. That law announces a whole package of measures, around the right of dismissal, around the probationary period, about temporary contracts and about the WW premium. All kinds of measures on which there will be differences of opinion and on which we will have a wide-ranging debate. This is no reason for us to push ahead with something we have agreed on since 2014. Waiting for the Labour Market Balance Act is not only unnecessary, it is also unwise. The need is high. In 2009, 144,000 employees worked through a payroll contract, and the 2015 follow-up study indicates that 194.000 employees worked through a payroll contract in that year. And I also read reports about 300,000 payrollers. Can the proposers give the final update? In any case, this is a huge increase, especially in companies with 100 employees or more. For small companies for which payroll was once intended, the number of payroll contracts fell correctly. The number of registered payroll companies increased from 78 in 2011 to 256 in 2017, an increase of as much as 230%. And that's just the registered companies. Because companies engaged in payroll can also be registered differently, such as with temporary employment agencies, this is just the tip of the iceberg. The disadvantages for employees are obvious, but employers who take responsibility also have an uneven playing field with companies that compete improperly through payroll. We want to stop this, because we do not want a race to the bottom when it comes to working conditions. Delays are therefore unnecessary and unwise. Today is the time to take steps. Important difference between this proposal and that of the cabinet is the pension. Should this also be part of the same working conditions? Yeah, say the proposers. No, the cabinet says, an adequate pension is sufficient. I believe that pension is a very important condition for working, perhaps the most important. Then it's weird to make another exception just before retirement. "Equal working conditions" should apply to all working conditions and, therefore, to pensions? If you don't, you'll shoot the target and the improper competition will continue. The initiators have shown this well in the note following the report with the calculation example of premiums to be paid. An employer pays for a 40-year payroll employee and a modal income with a StiPP pension almost half less contribution than for example for an ABP pension. No €3,500 premium but €1,800. This means that a payroller remains much cheaper than an ordinary employee. But then there's the feasibility. How do you ensure that a pension is actuarially equivalent? This depends on many factors, which may make implementation unnecessarily complex. It is therefore to the credit of the initiators that they have taken into account the VVD's suggestion and amended the proposal in this respect. At least by allowing employers to pay a minimum equal pension premium for payrollers, the possibility of improper competition on working conditions is removed. I see Mr Wiersma gloating, so this is going to be a celebration of consensus today, I can predict you, Mr President. It will, of course, also represent a significant improvement for the payroller's own pension structure. Like the trade unions, I've been wondering why we don't completely ban payrolls. The unions believe that this proposal is an important step, but that the total ban on payrolls would have been even better. They see no added value in payrolls, not even for the relief of small employers, as this can also be done through a payroll administration office. In the answers I read that the initiators consider it important that small and novice employers can continue to opt for this care-free service, but that they pay a fair price to avoid improper competition. Can I make it clear that if it's up to the proposers, we'll actually turn all payroll companies into a pay-adminstration office? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Since 2014, we have been in agreement here in the Chamber on tackling improper competition through payrolls. I say, not words, but deeds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u6	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u7	A compliment from the SP to the VVD, I had to recover from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u8	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u9	I have a question. I hear Mr Jasper van Dijk now say: is this bill a payroll company becoming an administration office? I have read the law in such a way that payroll is not banned and that demands are made on working conditions, but that the payroll company remains the employer of the employees. Or does Mr Jasper van Dijk read that differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u10	No, I think it's a fair question, which I pass on to the proposers. I asked whether it was the case that, if this law is passed, these payroll companies would have to pay a fair price and become very similar to a payroll administration office. I like to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u11	The SP Group is therefore saying, with this initiative proposal, that you are not defending, that your colleague, Mr Van Kent, does not agree with the line that we should rather ban payroll in the broad sense? Do I understand what you're saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u12	If it were up to the SP, we could also make payrolls redundant, but I think this bill is a huge step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u13	Thank you. I call Mr Ozdil van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u14	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, too, I would like to begin by congratulating the authors for the adoption of this initiative law. I am glad that I was able to be there together with colleagues from the SP and the PvdA, and I am very proud of my colleagues who are in the Chamber today to do the plenary part. Mr President, I have often talked about the Dutch dream in this Chamber, which made sure that if you were born for a dime, you could end up as a national descendant. That dream has now disappeared for more and more people. Even this week it was announced that for the first time since the Second World War 30s are worse off than their parents. In other words, the hope of people to move forward is becoming more and more oppressive. This is due, for example, to the so-called flexibility of the labour market. I'm supposed to say flexible, because let's face it, since when do you become flexible when you don't know if you have a job tomorrow? Too often people work through temporary work structures because it is easier and cheaper for companies, too often people get one temporary contract after another or they are forced tozzp'er and too often people are unfairly rewarded for the same work. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that there must be change. This initiative law is an important step forward. What's on the table? Imagine, you work at the same company and you do exactly the same work as your colleague, but you build up much less pension than your next of kin. You have much less vacation days, you don't get thirteen months, not even a Christmas package. This unfair situation has now reached almost 200,000 working people in our country. 'Cause those people work through a payroll construction. This means that people simply work in a shop, for example, or in a restaurant or in a school, at a newspaper, so on and so on, but are formally employed by another, separate company, the so-called payroll company. And that's why these payroll workers get worse terms of employment than their colleagues. This situation undermines the principle of equal pay for equal work and creates displacement. Moreover, colleagues have just pointed this out, payrolling was not really meant for this at all. Payrolling was once designed to relieve small employers from administrative tasks, but by now it has become a way for most companies to avoid their obligations towards employees. Mr President, the initiative law on the table today provides for equal rights and counteracts the erosion of working conditions. Again, I would like to stress once again that payrolling remains possible for employers who want to reduce their administrative burden. In other words, this initiative law repairs the payrolling system to its actual, original purpose. Finally, I would like to comment specifically on the pension section. It is an important condition of employment. People who do the same work should also build up the same amount of pension and at this very point there is a big difference between payroll workers and regular employees. The current situation is undesirable. Payrollers are now affiliated to the pension fund of the temporary agency sector, where they usually build up a lot less pension. GroenLinks is therefore pleased that this initiative law provides for payrollers to build a better pension, as much as their closest colleagues. My group also sees, also in the light of the opinion of the Council of State, that implementation can be very complex. I think it is a good thing that the bill has been amended on this, partly thanks to the VVD's suggestion. I hope, however, that the initiators will be able to explain a little more what this change means and to what extent they respond to the comments made by the Council of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u15	Thank you. Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the three colleagues in trade union K who are defending their own initiative law. If I'm right, it's a first for all three. I'll take a look at Mr Van Kent if I missed anything, but no, it applies to all three. I've had the chance to do it twice. I also thought it was a very special moment, so I hope you enjoy it a little, in addition to all the content. The same applies to support from the three groups. The Minister always enjoys his presence in the Chamber, so he does not need a separate mention, I suppose. Mr. Chairman. It is an initiative law with a very good purpose, namely to ensure that payroll employees have similar conditions of employment to those employed regularly by a company. In doing so, the initiators want to avoid the creation of constructions aimed at lower costs. In doing so, the initiative law proposal, like the cabinet policy, tries to return to the original goal of payroll, which has already been mentioned by the previous three speakers, namely to take care of small employers for everything that comes together with the employership. Mr. Chairman. I do have a number of questions, first of all about the form. The initiative proposal was announced before the coalition agreement and submitted after the coalition agreement. I get a little bit of the impression that the initiators might have been a little, I hope pleasant, surprised by the coalition agreement. After the previous VVD and Labour Party cabinet failed to make any progress on this point, a very ambitious paragraph on this subject has now been included in the government agreement. This raises the question of why the bill was submitted, when a cabinet plan had already been announced to reform the labour market much wider, including the approach of payroll. Yes, I realize that there is a difference in substance on one point, namely pensions. I will come back to that in a moment, but this has surprised me. As the only explanation in the answers to the questions, I read that it was because of haste. I'm in a hurry, too. I thought it was a bit remarkable, because an earlier motion by Mr Bashir and myself to implement the Hamer motion from 2014 was still rejected by the previous coalition, but well, that can also be a moving insight. But if you want to hurry, you must not lose sight of care and coherence. That's what my questions are about. Let me start with the issue of cohesion. I think it is unwise to deal with this issue in isolation. You need to reform the labour market much wider. I think that's also a lesson from the Work and Security Act. Yes, the approach to payroll is very important, but you should actually do it much wider. I would like to hear a further reflection from the initiators. All I thought was that saying "we're in a hurry" was a little unsatisfactory. In addition, I think it is also important to ensure care and feasibility. On a number of points, the process and the response have not convinced me yet. First of all, the consultation. I think it is a good habit to consult with an initiative law as well. That has not happened here, other than that there has been informal contact with the FNV. I very much appreciate the FNV, but why hasn't this law been widely consulted? This is a good habit for the government, but also increasingly for initiators. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. My group has asked questions about the feasibility of this law. Things are changing a lot. This law is far-reaching, and rightly so. The answer I got was, you always have feasibility problems with a law. I didn't think that was enough. If you submit a legislative proposal, it is a heavy and important right of this house to submit initiatives, and I think that this is something we should take very seriously. Because it's quite a lot, what we're asking here, for example, how you guarantee that the costs of all kinds of contributions to funds, not only pension funds, but also social funds, will be straightened out. I would like to hear a much more extensive reflection on that. The feasibility is also very important if we are to take initiatives as a Chamber. We must do justice to that. Specifically, I have questions about pensions. There's a difference. I appreciate the amendment of the bill with the letter of amendment and thank the authors for that. In any event, the amendment shall contribute to the feasibility. But I still have questions about what's next and whether we can guarantee what needs to be secured. Once again, I support the aim of this, but I wonder whether it will put something that is actually feasible in practice. You need to look for equivalent pension contributions, which apply by sector or by company. How can we see its feasibility? How do the initiators see that? Again, it is not that I do not share the goal, but its feasibility seems rather complex. I'd like to get some more information on that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the definition of payroll. There is concern, we have seen at Cedris, for example, that people with a distance from the labour market will be covered by this law by the payroll definition, which makes their guidance to work by the UWV, by the Work Company or otherwise, when it comes to people with disabilities very complicated. The answer of the initiators is: that is not the intention. I found that reassuring, but I would like to ask for a number of different forms of work for which this care lives, whether it is loaning, but certainly for the target group of people with a distance from the labour market, who are accompanied by the UWV or otherwise to work, to hear how we prevent it from becoming complicated. That this is not the intention, I believe, but the question is whether it can be an annoying side effect if the law is not precise enough. That's exactly Cedris' concern and I'd like to hear some more of that. I see Mr. Jasper van Dijk at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u17	Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u18	I listened to Mr Van Weyenberg's contribution. If I may sum it up in my words, he actually agrees with the authors and with the spirit of the bill. He's asked some good questions. We're gonna listen to the answers. But can I take it in such a way that you actually say: this is a good bill, which I want to support?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u19	Thank you for this question. I have said that I very much support the objective, which has also been included in the coalition agreement, but that I have serious questions about the impact. This applies to the feasibility of pensions and to their feasibility in the broad sense. My concern about people with a distance from the labour market is also a concern that you share, I say through you, Mr President, to Mr Van Dijk. But I find doing it in isolation, as I said, really problematic. The Council of State therefore says that this bill is insufficient, because you are actually only taking one block. So, although I support the objective, I think you really need to see this in conjunction, and I really want to have this debate when we are going to discuss the law of the Cabinet, instead of taking one block out of it now. I hope, however, that we will learn lessons from the treatment of this law for the law announced by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u20	I honestly don't quite understand that. D66 therefore agrees with the purpose of this law, only D66 wants to wait for another law to come in wherever it stands, plus a lot of other proposals. But don't you run the risk that in the debate on that larger law of everything will happen which will take a lot of time and that we will miss this point, when you agree with the purpose of this law? Then why don't you leave this opportunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u21	I think cohesion is very important. I also really think it's one of the lessons of the Wet work and certainty that you can get chunks if you don't pay attention to the coherence. But I have heard Mr Jasper van Dijk very well. He says: let us deal with the Minister's law very quickly and make the things that are in there, especially the payroll, law very quickly. I can only agree with that call.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u22	This brings you to the end of your term. I call Mr Heerma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u23	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to express my appreciation to the authors of the law here in box K and to their support from the political groups. This appreciation is not only for their efforts with the legislative proposal, namely to combat competition on working conditions resulting from payrolling and to deal legally with malicious forms of payrolling, but also for the hard work that always goes with it to come up with such an initiative legislative proposal. This will undoubtedly have been the case here in the months when this cabinet was formed. As far as the purpose of this legislation is concerned, namely to address adverse consequences and undesirable forms of payrolling, to better protect payroll workers and to prevent unfair competition on working conditions in our labour market, I believe that there is virtually a Chamberwide consensus in this house. This was expressed in 2014 in the Hamer motion, which was adopted Chamberwide. Mr Van Weyenberg also referred to the 2016 Bashir/Van Weyenberg motion. We have also supported them. It did not achieve a majority, but I think you could see very clearly in the various election programmes, in the debates we have held here in this house over the last few years, but also in the government agreement that this intention is widely shared. However, in the previous coalition of government, it was not possible to come up with another proposal. The minister then left it to his successor, also present here in the Chamber, to come up with this legislation. This intention has also been incorporated into the government agreement: payrolling as an instrument for the relief of employers and not as an instrument for competition on working conditions. But with that, this treatment is somewhat different, as Mr Van Weyenberg said. After all, with the coalition agreement, the proposers are served at their beck and call. There are two considerations in the note on the report: Mr Van Weyenberg cited one of them. The first is a matter of urgency and the other is that the proposers want to set an example. I would nevertheless like to have a more detailed reflection on both. For what exactly is "to set an example" by submitting an initiative law on a plan contained in the coalition agreement? Do the proposers think that this should be done more in the future? And why? What is the meaning of this good example? And how much time do the proposers intend to make with that urgency in relation to a bill that I am planning to land in the Chamber in the third quarter of this year, which means somewhere in the next few weeks? So on both the urgency argument and the good example argument, I would like to explain a little more. The broader bill of the cabinet will probably do something less about bonding and making flex less flexible. There's cohesion in that, too. That's a broader bill. I also understand that the parties of the proposers will be more enthusiastic about some parts and less enthusiastic about some parts, but this coherence is important. That's what the Council of State is pointing out. Thus, with the urgency that the proposers feel, you get all the appreciation and understanding for it, the balance between speed and coherence. Because we have had various debates over the last few years on the point that the labour market sometimes serves as a waterbed, I think that coherence is also important. We had another debate before the summer in which several parties used the risk of an increase in contracting as an example. We also asked the Minister to look into that. With that urgency, don't you run the risk of evoking waterbed effects that you can avoid if you look at that broader bill in conjunction? I would therefore like to respond to that, along with the criticism of the Council of State. I also agree with Mr Van Weyenberg's question on the FNV. The proposers indicate: it is about 200,000. It's growing big, Mr. Van Dijk already indicated. It's having an impact. It's not about nothing. And yet I read: "We had an informal conversation with the FNV as a consultation." Wouldn't it be better to talk to the social partners widely about this? And if the answer is no, why not? Why hasn't anyone spoken to employers? Why wasn't they talking to the ABU? Just to get broad reflection on the bill. That is clearly not the case and I am curious as to why. I would also like to ask the authors, in their time-limit, to comment more seriously than in the note on the report, on questions relating to implementation problems. I, too, read: implementation problems are always encountered in legislative proposals. I wonder: if the proposers who are now in box K would be on an interrupt microphone at a later point and there would be a ruler in box K, would they be satisfied with the reaction that you always have implementation problems with legislative proposals? I would like to comment very specifically on Cedris' point on that risk. It is repeatedly stated in the note following the report that this is not the intention that applicants do not intend to do so. However, it raises the question whether the proposers consider that the bill does not represent the risk Cedris does see. Is that what it says here? Or does it say: we don't have that intention and that's why we're going to see if any adjustments need to be made, so that Cedris' concern doesn't occur? I can't really get out of the answers which one it is. If it's not your intention, do you say, "Cedris is wrong" to us; it's not happening? Or does it mean that we are going to see what we are going to do to prevent it from happening? I couldn't quite get that out of the answers. As a result of Mr Van Dijk's contribution, I am curious about the answer to his final question, because I believe that, even after this legislative proposal, if it were adopted, there would be quite large differences between a payroll and an administration office. They're pretty fundamental. Mr Van Weyenberg mentioned one, but there are several. I'm curious to see how the proposers look at that. So I'm very looking forward to the answer. I appreciate the effort. I believe there is broad support for the goal. However, I do have questions about the implementation problems. I think that coherence in the approach is very important. We will also be discussing the bill that the cabinet is presenting here in the near future. But I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u24	Although CDA and D66 are of course fundamentally different parties...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u25	Very!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u26	... I do hear some resemblance in the contributions of the two colleagues, namely: support, it is a good proposal, but you still want to wait for a cabinet bill. I don't quite understand that. I think the ball's on the dot. Here are three people who have worked very hard. You have appreciated that. Why don't you shoot the ball into the goal by supporting the proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u27	Mr Van Dijk sees some convergence in the input. I don't think that's crazy. That will apply to many parties, because that Hamer motion has been supported by Parliament. Several election programmes, including ours, are heading in this direction. The coalition agreement is moving in this direction. There's a lot of difference of opinion in this house. I think the SP will not be unhappy that there is consensus on tackling these bad forms of payrolls. Over the last few years, I have spoken repeatedly with your former colleague Paul Ulenbelt about the water effects of legislation that takes a piece. The Council of State is very critical of this, and I very much share it. I think that we can better deal with the purpose of this bill, which deals with payrolls, in that broad law, which is probably less fasten and flex less flex. That bill should be here before the end of September, if the planning that has been sent to the Chamber is still correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u28	I am undoubtedly wrong, but I find the objections to this law so sought that it almost seems as if you would not allow them. It's a beautiful law. However, you will always find points or dots to say: yes, but, let's wait a little longer. You could turn it around. You can say that we wholeheartedly support this proposal and that encourages us to submit our own bill, from the Minister, as soon as possible and to submit the whole package that you want to work with to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u29	I would, of course, like to give Mr Van Dijk his full interpretation. That's always true, but in this case it's just not right and it's not true. So it's not the case. We have the Law on Work and Security. How many repairs have we done to each other? They are indeed fundamental. That coherence is very important. But the questions about feasibility are also very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u30	Finally, Mr President. The point is, of course, the other law is bigger. There are a lot of different points in that, so there is also a risk of that. Things could be amended, for example, which would delay that law. Here lies a law that is very concrete, concise and good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u31	I have tried to do justice to the fact that there is a balance between speed and coherence. I didn't try to miss that at all. That's my question, too. I only think that the risks of the lack of coherence are very high, regardless of the fact that fundamental questions about feasibility and effects can be asked. These questions were also asked by civil society and by the Chamber in the written round. The answers so far, namely 'it is not the intention' and 'we do not intend to', have not yet removed the substantive concerns about the legislative proposal and what it can bring about. There is no consistency, but there is also the question of whether the aim of this legislative proposal will be achieved. As far as I am concerned, we all know that there is sometimes a difference between the intention and the final outcome of a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u32	Thank you. Finally, Mr Wiersma of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u33	Mr President, thank you. Good luck has many fathers. The proposal before us by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Kent is perhaps the best example of this, with all fathers wanting to get rid of the unequal treatment in working conditions between payroll employees of user companies and their own employees. But honor who should be honored. Without mother, no fathers. It was really Mariëtte Hammer who got the entire Chamber behind this proposal in 2014. So thank the initiators and over their shoulders thank perhaps the mother of this initiative, Mariëtte Hamer. Maybe she'll watch. Mr. Chairman. I am no longer going to leave Mr Jasper van Dijk in suspense. The initiators are not the only ones who are concerned about this unequal treatment. So does the VVD. That is why we supported this motion. It is not for nothing, therefore, in the coalition agreement, together with other measures. That is the less fun part, because I understand now that the great point of criticism raised by the Council of State looks at the coherence with other measures that are important for balancing the labour market. Because this has always been made very clear by the VVD, and a tightening of the payroll structure must be seen in a broader package of labour market reforms. You know that's what we've always said. Mr. Chairman. Let me explain to you why. You'll just have a snack bar and be an entrepreneur. I know a guy like that. That's a father too, my father. He has a heart for the cause and heart for his people, but to be able to handle the sometimes complicated labour law a bit, he uses a payroll company, to take care of himself, but most of all to relieve his staff and to provide a fair wage in time. Meanwhile, he reads in the media that employers are using payroll to save money. That feels bad, because good terms and conditions of employment and payroll are not in question for him. But, he says, what are they going to do about this complicated labour law so that I dare offer that steady job again? He was on holiday in Turkey a week ago, or a week and a half ago. It took him the hardest to keep his case open at all. He's dying for someone who'd want to commit to him for a longer time. Themes such as dismissal rights, sickness pay and clarity forzzp's are also of the utmost importance to restore the balance of the labour market, which is necessary to make it attractive again. One could say that perhaps the ambition of the proposers is too limited. The Council of State even found this reason to suggest that this proposal should not even be sent to the Chamber. Somehow I understand that the proposers are just doing that, because they want to do this. But as colleagues have said, it may also be a bit strange. That is why I am curious whether the proposers would like more. If so, what then? The Council of State even made some suggestions to the applicants, such as limiting the payment of wages in the event of illness, and the right of dismissal. Then there may also be some good news for the proposers: such a proposal from the cabinet will soon come to the Chamber and will simply make a joint step forward possible. Do the proposers realize that? Or do they see everything that has to be done on the labour market as a sort of Febo wall, where you now only open the tray of the payroll crockery? Because in the end we would want a lot more, I ask the initiators. Then why not the suggestions of the Council of State? The initiators themselves note that the present proposal only improves a small part of the relationship between flex and fixed on the labour market. Then why not look at the broader package now? Shouldn't care be taken here rather than speed, in order to achieve that coherence which colleagues have already pointed out? Mr. Chairman. Then specifically on payrolling. Payroll can help employers in the jungle of labour law and also has an unbeatable and truly proven role in helping people get back to work at all. At least a quarter of the people just don't have a job for that and come to work because of payroll. Although we price that, the VVD does not ignore two improvements which we believe are essential for the proper functioning of the labour market. On the one hand, this is about the focus on the caring role. The VVD does not want payroll to lead to unfair working conditions and crooked faces on the work floor. On the other hand, we also aim our arrows in a broad sense at making the fixed track more attractive. The imbalance in risks between different forms of work now leads to an uneven distribution of collateral. For example, there is uncertainty with both employer and employee and as a result there are sometimes even fewer job opportunities. I think we agree that we want to tackle this as a whole. This calls for more action, as I have just said. I have a number of specific questions for the authors. The initiators indicate that payroll is intended to remove administrative burdens, especially for small employers. We are very curious to see how this bill will really contribute to this, if the Council of State also points out the complexity. If the initiators really want this, you might have to clarify a few things in the execution. For it is not for nothing that the Council of State points out that there are still a number of discussions in implementation. We have asked questions about this in our written input, but not all questions have been answered in it. I am glad to hear that the parties do not at least say that there should be a ban on payroll, because that is not what the VVD would be for. It is good that we can at least agree on this. But we have the same concerns, as already expressed by Cedris and by the parties who referred to them, about the reintegration of benefit recipients. How will reintegration via payroll remain technically possible? The initiators do not intend to make this form impossible, but they cannot fully justify why this is not going to happen. Then how are we going to keep that possible? Did they let us test the way we could? Job agreements cannot be put at risk because of this great complexity. Should we, for example, introduce exceptions to such a proposal? Finally, Mr President, I would like to correct something. In the report, the authors of questions we have asked indicate that a survey by the SCP shows that a minority of companies opt for payrolling to relieve their own administration. Yeah, it's true that payroll is the least frequent form of flexible contract. In 2013, only 5% were employed with such a payroll construction. But the employers who opted for payroll really indicated as the main reason that there is no administrative burden with the payroll administration and taxes. Another reason is that dismissal is easier. The 2017 SCP report also shows that 25% of companies using payroll actually do this to reduce the administrative burden. I am very curious how the initiators reflect on these figures in relation to the sentences they have put in their play, because the main reason is really the administrative burden. We should find each other in that, and we shouldn't make that more complex. I therefore invite you all, including the rest of the parties, to come and have a fry with my father in the snack bar and to exchange it with him on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u34	I wrote that last one down! I'd like to visit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u35	That's it! It's in Friesland.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u36	No problem at all. Mr Wiersma is the last speaker of this debate. He can make the day and break it. The ball is still on the spot, because Mr Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg have left it. Mr Wiersma is a very sporty man, I can see that. The law has been amended, to indicate the VVD, on the issue of pensions. How beautiful is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u37	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u38	Why don't you leave this opportunity behind?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u39	Thank you for this opportunity. And I will not cast aside my sporting performance, but in this respect I would like to refer first of all to the rather firm criticism of the Council of State. It was so firm, that we actually felt responsible for thinking about how you're going to realize this. Because the purpose behind this is good. But you want it to be executable, that it works and that it doesn't get too complex, so my father won't say, "Well. Hm. I don't know anymore. I don't hire anyone anymore or I'll even close the case." That would cost jobs. But you want it to work. Well, I think we have asked not only me but also a number of other parties enough questions. I think it's a very nice use that you're waiting for the answers to that and then you're jumping to conclusions. I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u40	Look, the door's ajar! Moreover, the VVD has of course every opportunity to submit proposals, motions or amendments. So if you criticize the law: feel free, you can table amendments. Finally, what exactly did Prime Minister Rutte mean when he talked about the "excited hand"? Can you give an example of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u41	You say the door's ajar. As far as I am concerned, the door is wide open to us to support this coherent proposal, which addresses the criticism of the Council of State. It would be very nice if we could do that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u42	Mr. Van Dijk, we're doing the interruptions in two, so very short and final.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u43	Yes, thank you. We're going to look at that at the moment that that bill is in place, but today we're talking about the gentlemen's law in box K.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u44	Put an end to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u45	And what did Rutte mean by that "excited hand"? Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u46	Then I would say: I hope the Minister is making haste with the bill. That will give you the greatest opportunity to deal with that outstretched hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u47	Then Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u48	If you see me, it won't be a surprise when I say I love fries. But I don't think a fry without mayo is worth much, because it's all gonna work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u49	You'll get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u50	The same goes for the payroll construction. You yourself quite rightly state that the construction as it is now built is not right. But it is about the whole structure, so then the pension contributions and the way in which that payment is made are included. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u51	In the written input we have thought along with the initiators. That has often been mentioned and appreciated today. I understand from your words some kind of compliment for that, so I appreciate that. I could say faintly: for us, it is at all connected with a reform of the pension system, because then it will all be a lot simpler to make this possible, and it would be good to hurry with that. But we are also looking for ways in which you do that well and making sure that you do not allow very crazy indulgences in these kinds of constructions, because then you hold on to what we are just saying to each other that we do not want it. So yes, that's a search, because it's not for nothing that the Council of State is very critical about how we're going to do that. That is actually my question to the proposers: how are we going to do that? But, of course, I am constructive in this and I have also made my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u52	I conclude that the door is open again. We recognise that there is a difference between what is in the government agreement and what the proposers are trying to achieve here, namely that important difference between pensions. The pension contributions must also be regulated in the payroll structure. It is not for nothing that you yourself have made a proposal on how you could handle it properly. My request for a hand-out would therefore be: do not linger in the form of "who is before" and what exactly is the order of the day, but ensure speed and clarity for all those workers and ensure the security and working conditions that are now required. You know that yourself, because I have seen that in the written questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u53	I hear the call. My appeal was: I hope you will support a very coherent cabinet package.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u54	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-15.u55	The applicants' response will be planned at a later stage in consultation with them. Thank you all.
