ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the debate on the budget for economic affairs, the first time on the part of the directors. We have stopped responding to the Minister and he will take the lead on the issue of Groningen and the gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u2	But there is an interruption or a suggestion of order, I do not know, but at least you have the floor, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u3	Mr. Chairman. I wanted to interrupt immediately before we start talking about Groningen. Two news reports. This morning, research by the UG shows that Groninger's hopes are losing, that things are getting worse, and that's because they don't know where they are. But my interruption is about a news report from last night about the reinforcements. A lot of Groningers are in an unsafe house and have been waiting for months to see what's going to happen. Now, last night, a news report from RTV Noord shows that there is a secret, or at least non-public, report, which would again show that the NAM model on which this new reinforcement is based is not working, that buildings, houses may be overlooked and that many more homes may be unsafe and need to be inspected than we thought so far. This has a major impact on this budget and the amounts included in it. I would like to ask the Minister to respond to this, but above all to send the report and the correspondence to the Chamber as soon as possible, because without it we really cannot judge the budget and how to proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u4	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u5	Mr President, shall we deal with these two points in the speech? Because it's totally taken out of context when we do that at the beginning. I will deal with these two things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u6	Yes, Mrs. Beckerman? Both are discussed, and we will monitor that. The Minister shall continue his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u7	Yeah, about Groningen, but also other gas business. I shall start again with the words of Mr Moorlag, who quoted me with the 'non-Dutch proportions'. That is what I said at the time of the previous budget debate. That's what I meant: it looked un-Dutch. I took up the report from the previous budget debate and I remembered again that I was standing there as someone who felt that the matter was totally locked up. I was then responsible for something that made me feel like I was locked in a room, and I didn't see the door at all. A stalemate at least, because I stood there as the one responsible for a prospect of permanent gas extraction and permanent massive reinforcement. That reinforcement operation was very much behind the statements that had been made about it. We'd do 5,000 homes a year. That would have meant 15,000 homes by then. Needed for safety. One condition. Appointed by SodM the same way. But we were at maybe 500, 600 at the time. That was really unacceptable to safety and it was not said at the time, but if we had put these two things side by side, we would have come to unpleasant conclusions. I put them next to each other, and I've come to very unpleasant conclusions. We had an old law that in itself didn't allow me to screw down the gas extraction. And we had a deal with Shell and Exxon, who didn't make that easy either. I had a damage settlement that stopped, by the way, for over six months. The NAM was still everywhere in between, and pretty much everyone on Earth disagreed about the damage protocol. All the intentions on economic perspective were, of course, certainly not fulfilled. Mr Moorlag asked how I see the situation now. Well, that answer can't be different than that I feel like we're a long way from being here. Some parts of the implementation we have planned are still to begin with the new approach. But I don't feel like we're in a room where there's no door anymore. I see the door. A lot has been done to open that door, but there's no way to say we're done or anything. To anticipate my reaction to Mrs Beckerman, we cannot reasonably expect people in Groningen to have confidence in the outcome. We said earlier that we would do 20,000 homes in four years and that became a few hundred. The damage settlement has been stalled. The new approach has difficulty getting on steam. The people here in the room do not expect it and I do not expect Groningers to have confidence in it now. That would be crazy. There'd be something going on with them if they thought, "Well, now everything's gonna be okay." I don't believe that. We've shared several times that we have to show it first. Then maybe faith comes after that. It is true that a lot of things have been done to open that door. The problem has been addressed at the source; the gas extraction has to go down. This leads to unpleasant conversations with the users here and there, but that is all part of it. According to the experts, this leads to a safe situation much faster. There is a phasing-out plan, including for industry. All the measures combined, we are well on track. There are possibilities that it'll be lower than higher, but I won't do a recalibrate until I'm really sure because otherwise I'll come up with promises that we don't deliver. I have agreed with the region that in future we will only make a commitment if we are quite sure that it will actually happen. If we are not sure, then we must not come up with all kinds of estimates and promises. None of that is on the table. Fortunately, there is a new law that allows me to impose the NAM to win less. There's a deal with Shell and Exxon. Not everyone is happy about it, but at least it allows me to reduce gas extraction. We have a new damage protocol. The Temporary Committee on Mining Damage is working hard on this. Before the summer we were only at 50 cases; the flag didn't hang out. Meanwhile we are at almost 1,500 and there is still a gear coming. I'll say something about that later. That's no reason to say "we're here," but those are all things that have been done to open that door. The old cases were given by the people in Groningen a six minus. That's not ideal and I'm glad I didn't give that to that TCMG after all, because we would've been stuck with it. No one says it's ideal. No one would have designed it that way from the beginning. Me neither. What I like more is that the national programme is now in place. There is also enthusiasm about this in the region and people are involved. They all have goals that everyone says: yes, I think that makes sense. Those are all things that have been done. In all honesty, I can see a difference between so far and now. So far it has been said, let me say for myself, all about policy. That was necessary, but it was paper. I have sat endlessly with administrators from the region to meet things; directors at a table. We have made laws, legislative proposals, protocols, agreements on basics and plans of approach. We've been very busy and there's a very large pile of paper now. That was all necessary because without it, I wouldn't have found the exit. It was all necessary, but it's all still paper. It was quite a job to come to policy in Groningen and with everyone in the Chamber. They think so, too. There's nothing new about that. But it might be a bigger job to do, and I know it. I was responsible in Amsterdam for the North/South line and for this for the Tax Administration. Don't talk to me about execution. Is there anyone in the Chamber who breathes relievedly and says, "Hey, we're through that complicated policy now, and now, fortunately, the implementation is coming, it's easier? That's no easier than that. I don't think I'm gonna get rid of a problem. I don't think I have one reason right now to make promises or be tough about where we stand. That's not the point. I find that very complicated. We need to strengthen in a completely new way. Everyone can have an opinion on that again, but I'm just following the experts we have in the Netherlands. It's still complicated. There's a whole organization. He did it that way, but it didn't go too fast. We were over 90% behind, but we did it that way. And now it has to be that way. We have an organization that is set up there and is now being set up in a different way. We have an organization that was completely centered around the NAM, but the NAM goes out: the NAM to the exit. That requires a whole different organization. The damage? I've got a lot of work to do to make it all work. Come on, that's all execution and it's not easy. I don't think it's easy either. I'm not saying we're almost there now. I am just saying that a lot of things have been done to make this new approach possible, but the implementation is again going to be very hard work and headaches here and there. There's a lot of tension in that. There is tension between the pace of phasing out and security of supply, tension between the pace of strengthening operation and the care of the steps. Of course, the region rightly appeals to me. They say: it's all nice to send out plans of approach, but do we get the opportunity to prepare these people and to prepare ourselves for that? Yeah, of course, that's the answer, but those things take time. We all want to be quick and then we decide that something has to wait. There is a very great tension between the clarity we want to provide about what we can deliver and what we are still uncertain about. There are 9,500 inspected addresses. There are still a few thousand people who expect a recording in one order or another. You'd like to give everyone a date: that one and that morning someone will come along and make appointments with you. Are we gonna make that happen? Well, I'm not sure. Are we going to clear all these people up about something that might not happen? There's a lot of tension in there. We have made one sacred agreement with the region. No, we made 30, and we all agreed on that. One of them is that we are really trying to stick to this rule: we are making statements and giving clarity as soon as we know quite reasonably that we can do that, otherwise we will not. That actually happened in the first few months. Then people came at me and said, "Mr Wiebes, we're not crazy here in this region, but we're a little tired of hearing about things that aren't being done. Can't we do something else? If you know, you have to come and tell me. We can also live with the fact that you don't know it yet, but we slowly have tobacco to hear eight times in a row that will take a little longer." If your program, your backup is over 90% behind, then that's a lot of people happening all the time. They have heard many times: then, no; then, no, even then not. That's a dilemma. It's part of that performance. The new approach is no secret at all. I'm not going to say much about it at all. There's a plan of action. It is not explicitly the cabinet or this minister who decides what is necessary for security. It's up to independent experts, experts. They determine with which model and which prioritization what kind of things are needed. I think it would be unwise, perhaps, to entrust someone who has a different interest, such as myself, with a political mission, such as myself, with security judgements. I don't think that's wise. It's supposed to be behind a fence. One must trust in Groningen that Eric Wiebes with his hands stays off the safety equipment. That's what other people than me have to decide. That is what they have done, at least as far as the methodology is concerned. The Mining Council and SODM were united: this is what needs to be done. Standard measures still need to be put in place. That too must be invested with people who know it and not with me. Then we give priority to strengthening the most risky homes. Of course, we start pragmatically with the housing that is most well known about whether they are already in an approach. At the same time, we are moving forward with this typology development. Mr Sienot asks about the attempt to put the resident at the centre of communication. Mrs Yeşilgöz asked a similar question: what are we doing to put the resident at the centre? That's an understandable question. I refer once again to it, I have already mentioned it here once, and I have been sitting together with a whole table of residents at the beginning of this period, and they have made a memorable statement to me. A gentleman spoke to me and said: I will hear tomorrow what is happening to my house. That's what you have to say to a liberal who owns his own house. What's happening to my house? I decide what happens to my house. That was not enough in the old approach. What we need to do is to give people a clear picture of the risks. Clear. The risks are sometimes more limited than usual and sometimes take longer. People need to know that. Then there must be a discussion about what standard measures they are eligible for for their home, but ultimately the choice is up to people themselves. That's what we have to do with each other. The people who are working on this in the NCG organisation think so exactly, but this still needs to learn a little bit. It is important to ensure that people have the final say in the end. That is necessary and needs to be practiced. Is that gonna be okay at first? Well, I'm almost certain not always. It's thousands of cases. Is that always gonna be okay? No, that doesn't all go well at first. In the organisation of the NCG alone, there is still a lot of confusion about the current situation and how things used to be. The organisational structure is not yet in line with the mission. That's another stretch we have to go through. I won't give you a guarantee of perfection for that. There are all subgroups in it that are all in a different situation. Mrs Beckerman, for example, asked me about the situation in Krewerd. This is a historic village with a limited size. The residents feel very united. They have taken an architect on their own initiative and he has drawn up a plan. I would really like to say that the region is no exception to this now that all these different groups are clarifying what, when and how, but we have agreed that we need some time to prepare for that communication. So it doesn't fit me well. I'm immediately getting a blow to my ears from the regional leaders, and they're right to serve a little food here, while there's no action on it locally and they're not prepared yet. So we are at an unfortunate moment, but I do not want to lose the region in any way. We have really agreed with each other that communication is addressed centrally by the NCG and that people will hear about what and when they are next. The general recipes are clear: the biggest risks first. The order is determined on the basis of the model turnout. That's not exhaustive. If other houses turn out to be dangerous, they'll just be on the list. There's nothing limited, but we'll take the most dangerous houses first. There was a similar question from Mr Bruins, who is not now in the Chamber, about Ten Post. How's the NCG gonna pick that up? Is it possible to combine this with other challenges? Yes. It has also been agreed with the region that where it does not interfere with the progress of the reinforcement process, there may be a variety of possibilities to combine other tasks with the reinforcement exercise. But we did say that safety comes first. I'm gonna be responsible for safety myself by law. I'm controlled by the SodM every year. He has to ask: "Dear Wiebes, have you served the safety?" And then I need to be able to prove that I did and that I've walked the fastest way to safety. So within these conditions, we look at all kinds of possibilities. Mr Bruins and Mrs Yeşilgöz also asked about the departure of the NCG. The human issues and mutations are not usually discussed here, but in this case I don't think it's such a crazy question. Herman Sietsma has been requested for an interim period. He promised for four to seven months. That's almost seven. After that, of course, we need a definitive interpretation of that function. I'm very glad he did that in the meantime. It's a tough job, as we understand from him. I have also seen him occasionally: that is not a light orbit; that is not a light orbit. But he did put that up to the top of the band and I am very, very grateful to him for that. Mrs Mulder asked about the pace of the damage. I think I did last week, or perhaps it was Monday morning with the chairman of the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage. There has been a acceleration; we are now at 1,400 and before the summer we were at 50. In different ways, we bring acceleration into that. Firstly, a lot of additional capacity has been attracted. That went through a tender. Those people are now being trained and they can start working from 1 December. We think there's a real acceleration in that from February. We've got 60 new damage experts working on it. So far I have understood that the average occupation was about fifteen, so it is a considerable increase. If I'm allowed to accuse anyone, it's addressed to my own address. I've been very passionate about not wanting to work with people who've worked for the NAM before. That fanaticism is certainly not rewarded. You can be principled, but you also have to watch the progress. There are now 60 newly recruited damage experts. I understand that they are also in large numbers not from the group that worked for the NAM. As a result, an acceleration will occur, but we also have subsets of more or less similar claims, a total of 2,500. In February, in addition to the usual work, we want to have that 2,500 paid off. It's got a gear in it. There are many other acceleration measures, not just additional capacity. But I did ask for a much stronger quantification of the existing plans, so that I can really judge the time, whether it is going in the right direction. If 60 isn't enough, maybe we need more. It's not just about damage experts. There are also damage dealers and there are also case counselors. The bottleneck can sit in all kinds of places and there is no other way but to follow this very patiently and to increase the capacity to the maximum. With that, we handled a large amount of damage cases in 2018. Again, a 6- is really not something to cheer about, really, but I didn't see any other possibility. In total, I think we'll get to about 7,000 reported claims in this calendar year, if I add up the old ones and the new ones. If we had designed it all in advance, we would have done it all differently. Mr Kops and Mrs Yeşilgöz have each asked in their own way about the state of the future perspective. I do not think Mr Kops meant it literally when he said: what is the future perspective for Groningen? I think he meant: I also believe there is a future perspective, but what exactly are you referring to? I think I understand Mr Kops so well. We, as governments, have made this a national programme. A national programme means that the government feels and participates in this, with a lot of directors at the table who were really reminded by co-signatory that they too, as individuals, have a role to play in it from their portfolio. There are three lines of programme drawn up by the region, all with the agreement and support of the Empire. In 2018, we really have to start. The first 50 million will be invested soon, and we will be able to do so. Mr Bruins, I think, has asked an important question on behalf of Mrs Dik-Faber. I also know how important this question is for the Christian Union. We've just had someone who's given herself a lot of perseverance, but that's definitely a trait of Mrs. Dik-Faber. Her question is about mental care. For the implementation of its motion, resources have been made available in the Groningen National Programme. I expect this subsidy to be paid this year. This means that there will be additional spiritual caretakers for residents in the earthquake area. In addition, 1.5 million additional social and mental support has been provided within the allocation of the national programme's resources. There is investment in training neighbourhood teams, including support for social, mental and health problems caused by earthquakes. She has maintained, and that has now been given a place, also within the national programme. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Beckerman asked about something that takes place in the coverage of RTV Noord. She was talking about a covert report. A "secret report in Groningen" is a kind of contradiction in terms. I attach a great deal of skills to the region of Groningen, but they are not in the field of the secrecy of anything. Nobody's counting on that either. So it can't be. Two things are mixed up here: the HRA and the NPR method. Those are completely different things. One is only there to indicate which house should in any case be eligible for viewing and recording, and the other determines what would be needed to strengthen that house. Those are completely different things. Both methods are not determined, controlled or decorated by me but by experts. That's the way it should be. Mrs Beckerman nods no, but I really do have the firm belief that the Minister should not touch that. This HRA method, only for the order in which the houses should be considered, is recommended by the Mining Council and the SodM. We had the best earthquake experts in the Netherlands together. That's not for nothing, because there's a difference. The HRA method differs on a number of important points. Apart from the fact that the target total is different, it also differs in methodology. The HRA method looks forward. That is also what the SodM has done in its advice. He also showed it, taking into account how long a house is still safe and how the order should be based on that. The NPR looks back and thus determines what would be needed for a house with the seismicity and gas extraction level of the past. Those are very different methods. The experts' express advice is that, if you want to achieve maximum safety, that can only be done if you use a forward-looking method for prioritizing and have a standard approach for strengthening, which must of course be derived from the NPR-like techniques. So which house should be discussed first, you determine looking ahead with the HRA model, but what is then needed, you determine in a different way. That's what it is. And that's not secret to my knowledge, and if it's secret, it's not secret, because that's the tradition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u8	Mrs. Beckerman has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u9	I am not entirely satisfied with this answer. There are two terms used, of which almost everyone here in the Chamber can now dream the meaning. But my question was next. In April, you decided to make a pass in place with the reinforcements, as you then called it. That reinforcement was indeed dramatic, but it only happened on the spot also had a very big impact on the feeling of the Groningers. People who feel unsafe and who are unsafe had to wait months again. When you did that in April, promises were made very quickly when they would have clarity. For the summer, oh no, we only have a list. Just after the summer, we'll know at the rest level. It is now November and time and again the Chamber has to hear from the media that we still do not know which houses are safe and which houses are now unsafe. You may say that it is not secret, but we do not have that information and we really are the controlling power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u10	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u11	How many apartments are we talking about? Is the HRA model suitable for this prioritisation, or should we also doubt it? We want to debate this as soon as possible. A majority debate is also planned. I want all those pieces. I would simply like to know from the Minister whether he believes in that HRA model and how many homes he is currently based on. How many homes should be strengthened and inspected?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u12	Well, that's different on crucial points, isn't it? I'm sure we can eventually come to a factual basis here that is the same. No ongoing backup has been stopped. It was slow. Yeah, it was slow. That was a big concern. We had the same concern, because it was very slow. But nothing stopped. None of my letters found batch 1467, which ran, or the houses before that... I have to finish, because I'm going to answer this clearly. Mrs Beckerman has asked three questions. I've got it right here, and I'm gonna answer it. None of these reinforcements have been stopped. In fact, the implementation started in 2018 at about 540 addresses. In the first half of 2019, the execution starts with another 800 houses from those old batches. That's not stopped. A three-month delay has been requested, which is to be called the "pause button" for the houses that were not in the execution and for which no reinforcement advice had yet been issued. That wasn't nice for those people, but it's not anything else. It's a postponement of a back-up for those 1,588 houses. There has been a promise of clarity about that reinforcement outcome for those people and not for everyone else. If we could have done that, we probably wouldn't have gotten that delay in that old approach. For these 1,588 houses, on 2 July the region and I made it clear what is going to happen. This means that work would be carried out there on the basis of the reinforcement opinions which had not yet been issued, but which were then ready. That's been discussed. That has been made clear. That has also made the region clear. No one's ever made a secret out of that before. That clarity is there. Does that mean that for the other thousands of homes that were still in the old approach there is clarity? No, that's a pity, too. We don't think otherwise either, but the promise was that these people who only waited three months longer for clarity would get that clarity. They got it. Then there is Mrs Beckerman's third question: is the HRA model to prioritise? I'm not going to answer from my own expertise, but the Mining Council and SodM think exactly that, not to determine what should happen to those houses, but to prioritize them. If anyone gets wind that there are houses elsewhere in the area that are also unsafe, but which are not on that list, then they can be added to the list, because we have not frozen the list. That doesn't fit either. SodM is the one who recalibrates that list once a year and looks at whether it is complete, or the houses that should be on it. The recording then looks at whether it is true that these houses need to be strengthened and what needs to be done about them. The prioritization is therefore reviewed and released by SodM each year. That's how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u13	Is that enough or do you have another follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u14	I'm gonna spend my last question on that anyway. I know we have more, but I'll give it to Mr. Alkaya. You often criticize the statement 'you have already mentioned it very often 'tomorrow I hear what can happen to my house'. That's really one that goes through marrow and leg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u15	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u16	But perhaps even more through marrow and bone the statement goes "I have no idea when I hear what's going to happen to my house."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u17	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u18	That pronunciation really hurts like hell. I also understand that you do not want to make any empty promises, because indeed, we are thoroughly tired of these empty promises.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u19	Plenty of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u20	But the problem now is that, now that it's shut down in April, a lot of Groningers still don't know anything at all and they see these news stories every time. I very much hope that, in the very short term, I cannot ask for this only in the event of interruption, the majority debate on reinforcement and damages is planned. At least I want to have that clarity about those reports and the related documents. Can you give it to us and at least give us the beginning of a plan of action? Because we really have no idea how many homes this is about, how long people have to wait and what that's going to mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u21	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u22	We're not gonna be able to disagree on that intention. I speak to people who have heard from the inspection in that old operation sometimes two years ago and then nothing more. There are 9,500 people who have come to know the phenomenon of "inspection" up close and not all of them know when something is happening. Then there are all kinds of people who have been added to lists by prioritization. In many cases, these people too do not even know that they are prioritized or what needs to be done. It is up to the NCG to clarify the process as quickly as possible, there are the region and I do not disagree at all. But we're sure we're not gonna be able to indicate timing for all those people. We went so hard on our snooping at that old operation that there's no Groninger who believes us. If we come again with long-term plans with beautiful stories, there is no chicken that believes it, no matter how many colored arrows you put in a beautiful color scheme. That's not the method. I have agreed with the region, and I will stick to those agreements. We will enable the NCG to communicate on this, that we will eventually outline what the process is for each of those 9,500 cases, homes and residents, and the new cases within a few months of that date. But you can't give me dates and conclusions for all those people right now. You can say what's next, but we've really learned not to raise a big mouth about what's going to happen when. I would very much like this. Part of it is going to happen, but I have kept to the agreements with the region. Another part we need to be a little more careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u23	I'm trying to keep an eye on the time, because there's more on the schedule today. The debate is not yet planned, but it is allowed. That's where all this comes back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u24	Excuse me, Mr President, not interrupting, but asking if I will be given the assurance that I will receive that report, including correspondence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u25	The Minister has heard the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u26	In all honesty, I am doing this together with the region; I am going to discuss this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u27	That's what's being discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u28	Mr. Chairman. The Minister has said three times that there is no secret report, but I get it...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u29	Mrs. Beckerman, you're using the last question now. I don't think you can do that to your colleague. The Minister has been clear: this is being weighed up and we are getting more information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u30	I've made arrangements with the region about this. I need to see what fits in those appointments. Where I made these agreements explicitly, I would like to go back to my regional colleagues to see if this fits into the agreement. I'm sorry, I'm feeling in solidarity with that. I made promises there and I'll see what fits in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u31	I propose that this issue be concluded, particularly as this debate is to be planned and that the debate continue on this subject. I would ask that in view of the clock in relation to the planning of the rest of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u32	That's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u33	A very brief question, Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u34	Of course, I'm a new spokesman on this case, so please, Mr. Chairman. I'm going back to Groningen soon and I'd like to tell people at least which houses it's about. Which houses will soon be clear before Christmas would be fantastic? Could the Minister indicate which houses are involved, so that I can speak clearly about them, and what kind of clarity is that? Or should we say at this point all the balls on the National Coordinator Groningen? I'm just trying to place it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u35	It's not "all balls on." Again, this is part of the implementation. It's with the NCG organization. Yeah, that's the NCG. It may seem like a whole Hague party here, but it is not up to The Hague to make one-sided statements about everything, while there are agreements with regional leaders and with the NCG. It's the NCG that's coming out about this. The directors have instructed him to indicate to the various groups what that process looks like and to clarify expectations, but that is not for me to say. I appreciate that Mr Sienot wants to give clarity to residents. That's a role in the NCG. By the way, there's a vacancy there, I'm just saying. I work in cooperation with that region and the NCG is the one who does it. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u36	Mr. Van der Lee, your one-after-last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u37	Yeah, and there's gonna be a separate debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u38	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u39	But my question is about the Minister's direct responsibility and about something he has just mentioned: the model and the year-on-year checking that it is still satisfactory. I also get concerns from Groningen about whether the sensors are properly measured, whether the sensors are well placed and whether the model is sufficiently validated on the basis of actual inspections. That's what you see more widely in mining.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u40	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u41	There are two things I want to be certain about, but I would like to hear from the Minister. If both things show that there is a need for a re-examination, we are not told as Chamber: yes, you are now swimming in a policy trap; we are not going to make any substantial adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u42	The question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u43	I'm standing here, legally responsible for security in the area. I am going to decorate it in such a way that I do not decide, nor does Mr Van der Lee decide which method should be followed and what is safe. Everything the specialists indicate that is necessary for safety will be done. If this involves an adaptation, a refinement, an improvement or a change in the method, it is also part of that. Period. We are now merely recording that the experts provide a method of prioritising. That method can be refined. And yes, that method is based on typologies. There has been a lot of work over the past few months to test that as well. That goes even further. So the recordings will contribute to that, but also the visual inspections will result in the database of housing types, which address has which type, so the underlying database, being refined so that the model will work better and better. As a result, there will also be changes in this prioritisation from year to year. For example, you say: these houses still have to be. Well, then so be it. There's no lock on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u44	Clear. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u45	Mr President, you were right to point out that there is still a separate debate on this subject, but as a Groninger I have to say something about it. What the minister needed for lunch was a paracetam ball, I am, to be honest, ready for a large pack of prozac. Because there's a lot going on in the system reality, but if you look at the things that really matter, how many homes have been strengthened and how much damage has been done? If so, it is simply totally inadequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u46	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u47	I would like to ask a question about the future perspective, Mr President. As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, this should not become a bright prospect for the future. Over the last few days, I have received emails in my mailbox asking: the whole debate on nuclear energy is raging again and the Eemshaven is always a stain on the map where a nuclear power plant can get; is that the bright future that Groningen can have apart from the earthquakes? My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to remove one of these three sites, the Eemshaven, from the map as a location for the nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u48	I should also like to comment on his first point. The fact that the number of homes that have been strengthened is insufficient was the reason to stop the gas extraction, because we were not working for three years to ensure safety according to the plan: continuous gas extraction and a massive reinforcement operation. Continuing gas extraction was there, but there was no massive reinforcement operation. That was exactly the reason. We knew that a year ago, I say in the direction of Mr Moorlag. That is why I said shortly afterwards: we are done. That's exactly why. It was long, long, not hard enough. Now we have a new approach with the sole aim of speeding it up. Then that radiant perspective. With respect: this is the very creative linking of different agenda topics. We have just discussed nuclear energy in detail. I am not going to dwell on the eventuality that someone is about to report to that window with a licence application for the Eemshaven. Come on! No, I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u49	No negotiation on this point at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u50	It is not very creative, but I hope in any case that the future perspective of Groningen will be at least non-nuclearly radiant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u51	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u52	I have received two amendments to this debate and I have received a backpack from a colleague. In fact, I have just spoken to Mr Van der Lee about this very briefly. The first amendment is by Mr Van der Lee. The aim is to use the funds for the compensation of energy-intensive companies in a fund to establish a closure scheme with coal-fired power stations. That was part of the energy agreement. I am particularly opposed to an energy agreement on the eve of the conclusion of a climate agreement with the same parties. That is not going to be a great success. I don't feel anything like that. I did say to Mr Van der Lee that the sentence must be enforced. I do not recommend this amendment. Then we have Mr. Nijboer. He says, "God, money is being transferred away from Groningen." No, that's not right. We've reserved a certain amount for Groningen. We have taken into account the possibility that the NAM would not contribute to this. Eventually, the NAM turned out to be willing to do so. This means that we prefer the NAM to pay that amount rather than the region. That is the change that is taking place, but it has had no influence on the Groningen side, but only on the NAM side. I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u53	The two amendments, which have been tabled in part No 2 of the motion for a resolution, have been accepted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u54	Yes, but I have another one, because I am getting a gift from my successor: an amendment that has been submitted to the Tax Plan. Mr Van der Lee raised the matter. It is the Leijten/Beckerman amendment. This is about reversing the reduction of the tax reduction in the energy tax by €51. I just explained a few things about this. We have had a small debate on this. In this context, the Secretary of State for Finance wishes to discourage this amendment with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u55	The third amendment is therefore also not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u56	There are three or four points I will return to in the second term. Then we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u57	Fine. Thank you. I now turn to the Secretary of State. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is not so much my place to thank the Minister for his speech, but I will do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u60	It's good to hear a cross section of your colleague's wallet. I've seen closely how he's been working for a solution in Groningen over the past year. Given all the interruptions, it is clear that we are far from there, but crucial steps have been taken. It's been decided to end the gas extraction. There is a new approach to strengthening. More than 1 billion have become available for a new future perspective for this beautiful province. Last weekend, I've been to this county. I have certainly noticed and heard how difficult it has been for many and still is for a lot of people. It now comes to the implementation of the so-called "Groningers" which has rightly been remembered so that the Groningers will see results. This minister will not be responsible for that. Mr. Chairman. Budgetary treatment is forward-looking, but I would also like to take this opportunity to look back. The first year of my Secretary of State is now over. What have I done with you? And why? And what else is going to happen? Mr. Chairman. Quite a few plans have been presented: the SME Action Plan, the Dutch Digitalisation Strategy, the new innovation and top sectors policy, the Noticeably Better Regulation and Service Programme. The bill Shopping Times went into internet consultation. We've taken the temporary decision on mail delivery together with the Chamber. We have also discussed a fundamental rebalancing of the postal market. I also mention the new Technics Pact and the elaboration of the coalition agreement on the distribution of extra money for innovation, space and the Brainport Eindhoven. And I will mention a new consumer policy, with which we are going to try to end unsolicited and annoying telemarketing. The implementation of parts of these decisions has actually started. We have the SMEs! The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the There is incredibly much interest in this; there is much more interest in it than money. The Digital Trust Center is running. And the Jheronimus Academy of Data Science is working with entrepreneurs and municipalities to help entrepreneurs use data to increase their turnover. Mr. Chairman. Why are we doing all this now? The coalition agreement has the title Trust in the future. As far as we are concerned, this also applies to entrepreneurs. They must see clearly and clearly that this cabinet is also there for them. And when I talk about entrepreneurs, I mean especially small and medium-sized enterprises. That we cannot do without large companies has just brought to the attention of the Minister, but small and medium-sized enterprises are the foundation of our economy. The increase in employment in 2017 accounts for 80% of these smaller entrepreneurs. Most people work in small and medium-sized enterprises. Together with associations, small and medium-sized enterprises are the cement of our society. Everyone who is a member of an association in this country, and that's a lot of people see in the members' magazines that the association is sponsored by local entrepreneurs. I do all this because I believe in the entrepreneurs. I am proud of them: from the baker on the corner to the innovative small and medium-sized enterprises and large business, and everything in between. I think they deserve to work in a fair economy. As far as I'm concerned, that's an economy in which hard work and care for your environment are rewarded. So not a "unfortunately peanut butter!"economy in which wages and working conditions compete in a race to the bottom. In a fair economy, farmers get a fair price. My compliments to the Minister of LNV for her hard work on this. In a fair economy, entrepreneurs, big and small, are not affected by a transition to sustainable business. Minister Wiebes just talked about it. He's working on that. At the same time, I say yes to healthy market functioning and competition. I say yes to economic growth just now was well recalled how well we are doing in all of this, but it is not an end in itself. It's a means of moving forward as a country. The Netherlands has an open economy with guardrails. That's the Netherlands. I don't think so alone. The OECD has for many years stressed the importance of an economy in which everyone can benefit from economic growth. Nobel Prize winner Stiglitz shows that it is good for the economy and society if everyone can benefit from economic growth and if income disparities do not increase significantly. That's not just an argument for justice. It is also an economic argument. Even in America it is now argued that a minimum wage is in the interest of economic growth. That's good to hear. The economy is not just for economists, it affects all of us. The economy seems abstract to a lot of people, but economy is the instrument that ultimately leads to prosperity and well-being. Having said that, I come to the budget for 2019. The world, and with it our economy, is changing rapidly. The platform companies have now entered our economy. Soon, if not already, techniques such as artificial intelligence, photonics and biotech have become normal. The good news is that we are good at these techniques. PhotonDelta, for example, will soon come up with an action agenda. Also next year, I promise you, I will continue to cross the Netherlands and visit small and medium-sized enterprises, but I will also show with innovative SMEs abroad and abroad that Dutch entrepreneurs have solutions to societal challenges. I have started by telling you what plans have already been presented in the past year, but I will of course also talk about the elaboration of these plans. New ones are also coming. The bill Franchise goes into internet consultation before the end of this political year and within a week or two the Defence Industry Strategy will see the light of day. A nice subtitle of this would be for me: how investing in Defence is good for the business environment and employment. In the coming years, I would like to talk to your Chamber about the implementation of the already presented and the new plans, because "together you can do more than just" also applies under the Haagse stolp. Mr. Chairman. For clarity I discuss my part of the budget in three blocks: entrepreneurship is the first; the second is digitisation; the third is innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u61	A question from Mr Van der Lee before that; that is his last question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u62	I think it's a nice introduction from the Secretary of State. Very good she calls Stiglitz. What triggered me a little bit is the gini coefficient, because the Minister also talked about it. They only look at the income side, but we also have something like wealth. We have a lot of power in the Netherlands and we have a very bad gini coefficient, because the power is very badly distributed. This is my next point. A lot of risk capital is needed on the innovation side; SMEs are crying out for it. But it also takes a lot of capital to trigger the huge energy transition. Would the Secretary of State, together with the Minister, not like to look a little more at the lack of ability and how we can activate that ability for the major social issues we face?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u63	Of course, that has just been mentioned. Pensions are never included in the picture of the asset positions. At the same time, we must also realise that we have a completely different way of dealing with risks in the Netherlands. In the area of care, for example, you are much better insured in the Netherlands than in other countries. If you look at these pictures superficially, you may see a difference, but in the effect in Dutch society it works in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u64	The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u65	Mr. Chairman. Entrepreneurship is the first block I'm going to talk about. Small and medium-sized enterprises have once again proved to be the foundation of our economy, as a courthouse provider of jobs. In 2017, 153,000 more people came to work in Dutch business and 80% of them eventually found a job in small and medium-sized enterprises. As has been said, SMEs are the foundation of our society. It is small and medium-sized enterprises that offer internships and apprenticeships and that sponsor the local sports club. SMEs are more than just companies. Small and medium-sized enterprises also face challenges, but a quarter of them are understaffed and the transition to sustainability and digitalisation is not self-evident. That is why I presented the SME Action Plan for the summer. With this, I want to support and encourage SMEs to make the transition to that digital and sustainable economy as soon as possible. I say'support and stimulate', because it comes first of all from companies themselves. That's what you're an entrepreneur for, to address the challenges that come your way. The frontrunners, which is a relatively small group of small and medium-sized enterprises, are responsible for most productivity growth. I am committed to ensuring that we can continue to be at the forefront internationally. The broader small and medium-sized enterprises, the peloton, consist of a diverse group of companies, entrepreneurs, and deserves at least as much attention in my opinion. The action plan has therefore been presented and I am already implementing some of its elements. For example, the budget for the MIT, the Innovation Credit and the SBIR I have structurally increased by around 25 million euros a year. The new SMEs! I have already mentioned this, with a budget of EUR 2 million for this year. We also want to see how we can extend that. Access to finance, another reason why small and medium-sized enterprises can sometimes not take the step, is intended to make it easier by organising regional financing tables. What's that? Together with banks, see what it takes to get funding out. Often it is between the ears of that entrepreneur what he wants, but just put that on paper in such a way that the bank signs it. I was able to co-launch the SME Financing Foundation a few weeks ago. Well, that's the good thing about being called in as Secretary of State all the time. Also with a little bit of financial support from the Ministry it will help to give alternative forms of funding a place in the order. I will mention a number of examples of speeding up the digitisation of SMEs. Then there are the start-ups and the scale-ups, because next to the broad SME peloton there is a special type of small and medium-sized enterprises. One of the biggest sources of innovation in our economy is the start-ups. They're using...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u66	I think, Madam Secretary of State, that there is another interruption by Mr Öztürk on the previous point. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u67	I want to talk about lending anyway. I don't think you'll be surprised. Minister Henk Kamp also had such initiatives and he was also working on them. Today, as I have heard, I have been a Member of Parliament for six years and for six years I have been hearing from ministers and State Secretary: yes, we are busy, consultative tables, we are helping the entrepreneurs to write a good story. But that's not gonna get us anywhere. If you look at that kind of alternative funding, it's pretty low, a few percent. The core problem is never discussed here, unfortunately. That is that the banks do not want it, especially the small loans, because it takes them a lot of time and pays little. What are you doing with the banks? That is the key question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u68	It is special, because I heard Mr Öztürk say: it is still a small percentage. This means that most SMEs still receive their funding from large banks. That is sometimes questioned, but that is the downside of this percentage. Yet the idea is with a lot of people, with a lot of entrepreneurs I have to say, that they don't get to work there. Then you can see that the rate of rejection of credit applications is highest among the so-called micro-enterprises. These are companies with two to nine persons employed, and you can see an improvement in this in recent years. Why is that? The financing of micro and small enterprises is simply more risky than in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises. There are just a few factors for that. Because, for example, the continuity of the company is highly dependent on one person, the risk is greater. They have insufficient track records or no or limited entrepreneurial qualities or experience in the company. Sometimes you have poor or under-substantiated business plans, the existing cash flow is uncertain or leaves little room for in-depth investment. Low risk buffers. This image is confirmed by the Financing Monitor, which receives the Chamber every year. 56% of entrepreneurs themselves state that the reason for rejection is due to too high a risk for the lender. That's why that's happening. That doesn't mean you're gonna let it go. With the European Commission, I am currently examining the relatively large differences in rejection between Member States and the large variation in rejection rates over the years. This was also the result of a motion by Mr Graus. That is the reality of bank financing. Then we try to achieve alternative financing in a variety of ways. And there are just a lot of them: leasing, billing, chain financing, crowdfunding, credit unions, business angels and so on. This can ultimately be used to offer that entrepreneur with a fantastic plan the financing he or she needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u69	A follow-up question from Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u70	The fact remains that we in Europe are one of the worst financiers of entrepreneurs. How is that possible? All those arguments the Secretary of State mentioned that the banks that do not want to finance entrepreneurs could also apply in Germany, England and Belgium. All other countries have the same problems. Nevertheless, the Netherlands has the worst figures. My point is that banks do not take their social responsibility. The moment they go bankrupt, they're funded by society. With taxpayers' money, they'll be held up. But now that they're making billions of profits, they can take a little more risk and stand up for those entrepreneurs. Do you address the banks on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u71	Yeah, I'm having that conversation. That's one. Two: this is exactly why I am working with the European Commission to see where that difference in percentages comes from. I share Mr Öztürk's concern. How do you ensure that a good entrepreneur with a good plan gets the funding he needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u72	Enough? No. Then there's another follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u73	Very often the coalition parties ask: does DENK have solutions? Let's start with that. One of the solutions may be that there is an independent credit rating agency. As a government, we can finance or support an institution that independently assesses credits with a credit system. A lot of banks say that credit assessment costs a ton of money and time. They prefer to give as little small loans as possible. That's the truth, that's the honest answer from the banks if you just talk to them without a microphone. Can we not create a body, an independent credit rating agency, which does all that work before the presentation to banks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u74	I am always charmed when Mr Öztürk comes up with a solution. That's what I'm saying. But I think that the path I am taking is much faster and much more effective. Firstly, Mr Öztürk must also tell us how to pay for this. Imagine that we have such an institution and that the judgment is pronounced that a credit has been wrongly refused. And then what? Then maybe that fantastic idea has been hijacked by someone else for a long time. I am pleased that Mr Öztürk is taking a constructive approach, but this is not, as far as I am concerned, the solution in that very fast, competitive market that we have in the Netherlands. Mr Öztürk is right to say that the economy is doing well, but that might help you to be late when a judgment is given. The question is, of course, what you are testing. Banks are not charitable institutions. They must, of course, also come to a positive conclusion at the end of the month. Of course, it is also a fact that those who look at the granting of loans to see whether they are far too high a risk and whether they are paid for the work they do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u75	A follow-up question from Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u76	A lot of entrepreneurs give each other credit through foundations. They guide young entrepreneurs and start-ups. We have a huge ageing population in the Netherlands and we also have a lot of entrepreneurs who have time and no longer undertake, but want to help another entrepreneur. So we can make use of the qualities of entrepreneurs who currently have a little more time and also want to guide people. With this group we can also find co-financers, but you can see that there is almost no support from the Chamber of Commerce, because there is huge savings. Public support is also almost nil on this point, but it requires an incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u77	We have a variety of financial instruments. The Business Angel Arrangement is one of them. In doing so, we are helping entrepreneurs to find funding, so much that this Chamber recently adopted a motion asking me to keep all these different instruments under review. Do they still do the right thing? Don't they take over from the market? That is also a reality in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u78	I think it would be a good idea for the Secretary of State to continue her argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u79	I had arrived at start-up and scale-up, a special type of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is companies that use new technologies, and we are, of course, incredibly successful in doing so. I'll just mention Booking.com and Adyen as two fine examples. But unfortunately it is also a reality that not all start-ups can make it. A lot of start-ups aren't gonna make it. The step from start-up to scale-up is sometimes quite a gap, something Mr Bruins of the Christian Union also mentioned. Well, I want to help bridge that gap through a scale-up fund with 160 million in it to help start-ups with a good future perspective to take the step to scale-up. StartupDelta and especially our Special Envoy Prince Constantine: who doesn't know them. They work hard on the visibility of Dutch start-ups abroad. In the first half of next year I come up with a follow-up approach for the StartupDelta. But I see Mr Bruins coming, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u80	There you go. Invited to an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u81	I didn't mean to do that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u82	Yeah, no, but it sounded like it. But go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good message, of course. It is good that we support start-ups and scale-ups. What I was wondering in the whole discussion is this. We see that Invest-NL, which focuses mainly on the broad lines and the large companies, has a focus on the societal challenge and key technologies. What I ask myself openly is whether we would also like to focus on scale-up schemes or on the Seed Capital scheme. Do we want to focus there or do we want to broaden it? Does the Secretary of State have an opinion on this or a view on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u84	Then what should the focus be on? 'Cause that's not what I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u85	It's enlightening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u86	The societal challenge and the key technologies set out in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u87	Then you'll actually switch to the new innovation and top sectors policy, which, of course, includes many start-ups. It is also explicitly the intention to launch start-ups and small and medium-sized enterprises there... You always talk about start-ups, but you mean innovative. SMEs also have an explicit place in this. That's definitely what the focus is on. We just shouldn't get so rigid that we say njet when we have a fantastic new start-up at some point, which just doesn't meet the challenge or key technology criteria. Otherwise we could simply nip a new Adyen in the bud, and that does not seem to me to be the intention of Mr Bruins. StartupDelta is also one of the organisations that is not resting to remind us of frustrating regulations. I should just like to look at Mr Verhoeven, who has drawn particular attention to this in his term. I would like to stress once again that if there are any concrete complaints about rules that start-ups run into, please report! The stakes are certainly focused on that too. With the StartupDelta, as I said, we are also going out. Missions and international events are organised, supporting start-ups and scale-ups to expand their wings internationally. Of course, there is also access to finance. Why? Why are you doing all this? Because these companies are working on the societal challenges we have formulated with each other and that is where the jobs of the future will also be realized. In January I go with Special Envoy Prince Constantijn and 50 Dutch startups to the CES technology fair, the Consumers Electronics Show, in Las Vegas. When you see with what incredible, innovative companies you can go out with... It's that it's happening in Las Vegas and it's so long flying. That always stops me. But the company is fantastic. I call Uvisio, who has developed a tool that measures the amount of UV radiation. The corresponding app then sends a signal when you need to put yourself back in. Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals sees it all in front of him. I also mention SlashLead, a tool that helps SMEs in digital marketing. Those are just two examples of the 50 companies that we are going to help to spread their wings internationally and thus also see if we can organise growth in this way. Mr. Chairman. In relation to the productivity growth of small and medium-sized enterprises, Mr Amhaouch quite rightly asked me how I could speed up the adjustment process for small and medium-sized enterprises. Several measures have been announced in the Action Plan. Let me give two examples. I also said that with JADS entrepreneurs (Jheronimus Academy of Data Science), municipalities and VNO-NCW entrepreneurs, we help them to use data so that they can estimate what they need to buy. But we are also working in the province of Groningen to see if we can help SMEs with online sales and marketing together with the university. Some 80% of Dutch people sometimes buy something online, while only 15% of small and medium-sized enterprises are really active on the Internet. So there is still a world to be won. Smart industry is the program that focuses on productivity growth. 35 field labs have been set up. Here they experiment and test, and develop promising innovations for small and medium-sized enterprises. I hear someone say "Mona" now. Are you all right, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u88	I'm fine. You can continue your speech undisturbed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, productivity growth is also taking place by investing in people's education and development. I am referring, of course, to the Technics Pact. I have just dealt fully with the mbk funding in an interruption with Mr Öztürk, so I will skip that issue for now. Then there's the locational climate. I would like to emphasise that, after reconsidering the tax on dividends, the revised package is particularly attractive for small and medium-sized enterprises. The low corporate tax rate is further reduced to 15% instead of 16%. Part of small and medium-sized enterprises will also benefit from lowering the higher rate to 20.5%. We wanted to reduce the employers' burden on labour by 100 million, but that is now 200 million. The Minister of SZW is working on this. The current account measures for director and major shareholders will be softened and the second disc of the Wbso will also be partially increased in 2020. A number of Members of Parliament have said a few things about this. That has not been done by Mr Verhoeven, but it is now on the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u90	You have finished your sentence and Mr Verhoeven will now have the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u91	Yes. By the way, I'm sorry I just pulled the Secretary of State out of her speech. We were talking about motions and then we said there was a monologue of the Secretary of State. That's what we called "a Monalogue." That was a conversation that distracted a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u92	That's my joke, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u93	Yeah, I know. But since I liked your joke, I thought I'd repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u94	It is good that we share in these language discoveries. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u95	Well, it is to indicate that we have been making motions on this budget. I have a question about a point I made that goes with the start-ups. I asked, but in the written reply I did not read anything about it, to set up some kind of tech consultant, a Delta Commissioner for regulation on the very category of start-ups, because they are too busy to deal with all kinds of regulation. The Secretary of State said at the time, if there are any rules they have to deal with, please report to me. One of these rules is that the start-up visa must be renewed annually and that it cannot be extended in one go for three years; that is the kind of thing the Secretary of State should think of. What does she think of this proposal? A little more a central way of helping out that category of companies I would find very good. I know that everything else is happening, but this is a wish from that group of companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u96	The policy we formulated with each other, which we discussed extensively with the Chamber last week, does not see another system being organized to fit in. This is about a tailor-made approach that we conduct together: space in regulation, live events. So every time we look very concretely: what is a certain group of entrepreneurs running into and how else can you organise it? I am very willing to look at what the tech companies are running into and then see if that can be addressed in a good way. With just establishing "this is a little tricky" we have not organized noticeably better regulation. I find the idea behind Mr Verhoeven's proposal extremely attractive. I am therefore very prepared to discuss with each other what that would look like. But if we organize another kind of commissioner with each other, I think we will make the regulatory burden worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u97	You want to put your last question to this? You have that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u98	Are we at nine?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u99	Yes, you just asked your ninth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u100	Then I'll save the tenth for another theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u101	I suspected something like that. The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u102	Mr. Chairman. I referred just now to the general consultation we had last week on regulatory pressure. With this little debate on the subject, we have talked about it in substance, so I will leave it to the Technics Pact and SMEs for now! dee. An old Chinese saying is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u103	One moment. Mr Alkaya has another question, probably on the previous subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u104	Exactly, Mr. Chairman. I have a question about the Wbso. On the one hand, the Secretary of State indicates that she divides her answer into blocks and that innovation is still coming, but on the other hand she has already mentioned it. So shall I ask the question now, or will the Secretary of State come up with a comprehensive answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u105	I still have to treat the Wbso.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u106	Okay, I'll come back to that later with your approval, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u107	Okay, then you'll have the last question. Mr Wörsdörfer? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u108	Certainly, Mr President, because I had the impression that the regulatory pressure was now over. I had hoped that the Secretary of State would comment on the questions we had asked about the SME test. Entrepreneurs would like to take a look at what the new laws and rules will look like. My speech was: let us introduce it as soon as possible. We discussed this last week in the AO, but it seemed good to me to repeat it here and to hear again from the Secretary of State how she sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u109	With all my love. But since we had a whole debate on it last week, I thought: given the clock, I refer to it. But I understand that Mr Wörsdörfer is not satisfied with that. I am willing with all my love to repeat what I said last week. What can I do for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u110	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u111	Last week we discussed that it initially seemed that there was some cold feet in other departments for this new instrument. Last week, for several ministries, I already listed the topics that other ministries are working on, which also indicates how the attractive tool for checking regulatory pressure, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, is gradually growing. Last week I also indicated that although it initially seemed a bit complicated, it gradually became a good... What's a nice Dutch word for getting on with it? Vaart! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u112	Look. Mr Wörsdörfer, follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u113	Yeah, sure. Last week, the Secretary of State also said that she would very much like to wait for the evaluation of the ongoing tests. I would have liked to ask a question about this now, if the Secretary of State had brought it up himself. Those tests are of course all important to see how you implement that test as well as possible, but my suggestion, actually in addition to last week's consultation, was to do so throughout the course. Can we not use the SME test much more now, even if it is because quite a lot of the rules that the cabinet is going to pour out on us in the coming months, as a result of the government agreement concluded? Surely it would be a shame if the SME test were introduced in full after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u114	No. The government agreement states that we are introducing an SME test. Previously, we have already sent the programme letter marked better regulation and services. It also states that the SME test is an instrument. So I expect ministries to look very closely at the laws that are coming in which small and medium-sized enterprises are going to run into. I already shared a whole list of those with you last week. If there is another law that you say should be included, I am very willing to do so. Of course, we also have the Van Straalen Committee. I forget every time what the official name of that committee is. "Strategic regulatory test companies" it is, I say out of my mind. No, it's "Strategic Commission Better Regulation Companies."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u115	We understand what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u116	You know what I mean, Mr. Chairman. So he's gonna watch that, too. I will certainly keep my colleagues on this. Even if it was only because if they don't, if they think that everything is in the Chamber, they'll get it afterwards. We must also be prioritised in this, so let us also take out those laws that are clearly affecting small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u117	The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u118	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I had started by saying that there is an old Chinese saying that is: I wish you a lot of staff. That is a saying that is not meant to be very positive. This is the problem on the positive side. When I talk to entrepreneurs, I talk to them a lot, and she asks what is bothering them, it's: I can't find any technical staff. This is also reflected in the SME Annual Report. Some of you, including Mr. Amhaouch, have mentioned this. He also asked me to bet on retraining, retraining and retraining. For starters this of course offers fantastic opportunities. There's a bunch of job guarantees, I almost get the idea sometimes. But 50s and 60s with technical experience that didn't come up a few years ago now also have great opportunities. But for entrepreneurs this is much more than a luxury problem. The Minister has a huge task in the K-side of the Ministry, climate, climate. Yes. The k of climate, Mrs. Beckerman. Imagine that. In the coming years, 200,000 buildings will have to be converted every year, so that they are more sustainable. That's 800 a day, not counting weekends. Then you need good professionals. But they are also much needed on the part of the digital economy, and that is why this cabinet is enthusiastically continuing the Technics Pact. Together with the ministers of OCW and SZW, we informed the Chamber about this. Mr Wörsdörfer asked whether this could be speeded up. Yes, Mr. Chairman. Everything's focused on that. We give priority to greater involvement of industry in education. SMEs! It is for this reason, among other things, that we have started to ask entrepreneurs how they see the solution for their businesses to find sufficient technical staff. As I said, there were more ideas coming in than the budget can handle. Also for 2019 and 2020, we want to make a budget available for this. Finally, the Christian Union's proposal for what I would like to call the 'Wbto', making the law available to technical teaching staff. His intention is to use a financial regulation to seduce companies to employ technical staff in technical education. He asked me, "What do you think of that?" He asked a similar question when dealing with the budget of OCW and the Tax Plan. I understand from him that the idea is considered interesting in itself. So I am willing to work with my colleagues to see how you can shape that and, if you do, how you can turn it into policy. Of course, we always come to talk to each other about the question: how much does it cost? I am, of course, always interested in proposals for cover on the part of the Chamber. Mr Wörsdörfer asked about the Brexit, and in particular whether all companies now know what is going on. There have been weeks over the past year that you couldn't turn on the TV and open the newspaper, or it came along. Unfortunately, there are still many entrepreneurs who are not active in making their own business ready for Brexit, while we do an incredible amount of work. We've put a Brexit window online, where companies can do an impact scan. I did it myself once; it's an incredibly simple questionnaire that allows you to walk through your own company to see where you have connections, trade relations, with the UK. This one's been filled out 25,000 times. We have Brexit vouchers that allow an SME to hire an external expert, and very recently, customs has developed an instrument that sets out exactly what steps an entrepreneur should take in the run-up to the Brexit and how much time it takes per step. This is particularly interesting for companies that are not used to, or have not previously acted with, companies from countries outside the European Union, so-called third countries. Finally, Mr Öztürk and Mr Amhaouch drew attention to ethnic entrepreneurship. They asked me for a more specific policy for this group than the other. Mr Öztürk is absolutely right, and I think that is also the background to Mr Amhaouch's questions: diversity in a company contributes to productivity. For this reason, the government as an employer pays attention to this in its own organisation. But companies have an incentive to do so anyway, because a diverse policy is positive for your business and for your turnover. I do not see how a centre of knowledge can contribute to this. The Chamber of Commerce and the RVO are also open to ethnic entrepreneurship. Finally, Mr Amhaouch specifically asked me to talk to an association of entrepreneurs where there is diversity in its membership. I can say to Mr Amhaouch: yes, I do. Soon I will be meeting with Ahmet Taskan of HOGIAF, for a short time, the cross-cultural entrepreneurial association, to discuss with them the issues he raised. Mr President, block two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u119	Digitisation. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u120	Next week, especially for Mr Verhoeven...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u121	One moment, there is a question from Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u122	First of all, thank you for the Secretary of State's commitment. I would like to return briefly to the staff. We have been involved in re-training, re-training and training, we have had the Technics Pact, and yet staff is the number one of the SME Action Plan. I don't have enough grip on it yet. I know things are being developed in all kinds of ministries, but how do we get a grip on them so that we are actually making visible steps? I have already said that thousands of people have been thrown out of the banks for a few years. How do we switch to ensure that these people are retrained, retrained and retrained in time before they get out on the street? Are we working on new tools to remove bulkheads, so that you can help the staff we really need, not yesterday but today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u123	So we've produced quite a pile of paper on that with each other. Of course, paper doesn't take you any further. What matters is what's in there. The tricky thing about the policy we conduct is that it happens outside this square kilometre. It is precisely the entrepreneurs who are working on this incredibly hard locally with educational institutions and with municipalities. Last week we were in Groningen, in "I would almost disrespectfully say "timmer factory" "The Connection." People who are deaf or hearing impaired are taught how to communicate but also how to make roof apples, window frames and doors, so that that group of people there is also helped to work. I spoke there, Niels. I just lost his last name from the GAP academy. He's just gone in consultation with municipalities: give me 100 people out of your welfare box; I'll pull them through twice four days, and if they get through that they'll be technically trained, they'll get a job guarantee to get to work, especially in technology. This is just one example of how that can happen. What is going to help here is the fact that it is on everyone's retina and that there is also an incredibly important economic interest in getting these people to work. People are really jumping over staff. I have here five partnerships of the Human Capital Agenda ICT. In a number of places in the Netherlands, I mention only the five examples Amsterdam, Haarlem, Rotterdam, Utrecht, Zeeland, there is an enormous amount of work being done in cooperation between education and MBO programmes, but sometimes also universities and industry to make young people opt for technology. And what we really have to stop doing in our society is being talked about incredibly good words about it and opinion articles about it are being written about it as if it is a pity when a child is on vmbo. The vmbo is fantastic. If you then go to technical training from the VMBO, you will be trained for a job. And to people who feel that today's factory halls are the factory halls of 30 years ago, I say, take a look. I get in a lot of places, and if it's gold-clean somewhere, it's there. I'm from Volendam, so when I say that, it's true. I can't...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u124	It's been noted. The Secretary of State continues her speech, with some speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u125	Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Next Saturday it is exactly 30 years since the first Dutch person had mail contact. On 17 November 1988 Piet Beertema received an e-mail from the Center for Mathematics and Computer Science from American Stephen Wolff. I can't believe you know. Companies and citizens had to wait another five years for them to get on the Internet. In the meantime, we all cherish everything that has come to us in this area. Teleworks, skypen, bluetooth, Wi-Fi Those last two are by the way Dutch inventions and until recently we only knew about the film, namely robots and self-driving cars, are within reach. Digital innovation is decisive for our earning ability and leads to breakthroughs in healthcare, traffic, agriculture and so on. So I fully agree with the urgency that was expressed in Mr Verhoeven's words on this matter. I'll get back to you on that. It's just that it's not like that's always happened on its own. I have just said how important it is for small and medium-sized enterprises to make use of it. The basic knowledge of pupils and the workforce in this area should also be increased. I was just talking about the human capital agenda in the field of ICT. The base is here. We are known for our excellent internet. We are the European number one on that point. We have one of the largest Internet nodes in the world in the capital, so we are European innovation leaders. But if you want to stay on time, you have to run faster every year. What have we done over the past year? I have already mentioned the Digitalisation Strategy and the Implementation Agenda Smart Industry, but we have also launched the Blockchain Coalition. This is a public-private partnership initiated by the Ministry of EZK with no less than 50 participants from industry, government and science. Another thing I would like to mention here is Commit2Data; a national big data research programme that has also been established through public-private partnerships and which now includes 100 companies. They work with universities on big data issues. The latest call for big data proposals from consortia of companies and scientists focused on the detection and prevention of cardiovascular diseases. The public-private funded research budget has grown to 75 million since 2016. What are we gonna do? We have an exploration conducted that shows that sharing data has enormous potential and then we want to come to an agreement set for actually sharing that data. As a first step, a coalition of cross-sectoral data sharing will be formed in early 2019, starting with sharing knowledge in this area and making concrete agreements. Several organisations are involved in this. We have also commissioned the RVO to develop a broad-based internationalisation agenda for the ICT sector. And there will be a strategic action plan for artificial intelligence, artificial intelligence. A cabinet-wide digital summit will be organised from 18 to 21 March. The aim is to develop the Dutch digital strategy together with all kinds of organisations involved and to exchange knowledge about it. Mr Wörsdörfer asked me about the organisation. Well, I can tell you that's fine. Mr. Chairman. I'm just going to browse through to another very important topic about digital enterprise, namely that you also do this digitally securely. In addition, I would like to mention the Digital Trust Center. This is especially true for small and medium-sized enterprises,zzp'ers and large companies. Advice is given on cyber security and subsidies for cooperation in the field of safe digital enterprise. In September, I informed the Chamber that I decided to reopen the cooperation agreement next April and extend it for two years, so that not only the Digital Trust Center as we know it on the website does the good work, but also in the region there is cooperation between entrepreneurs, local business associations and experts. Mr Verhoeven asked me about his 2015 motion calling on the government to recognise the digital mainport as a third mainport. My predecessor recognised the digital mainport in the 2016 Digital Agenda and supported it with actions. There is no doubt that the importance of the digital mainport for the earning capacity of the Netherlands is incredibly great and that the government therefore has its role to play where necessary. I have just mentioned a number of things that have passed: the strategy, the Digital Trust Center. Given the proximity of data centres, internet exchanges and related companies, the locational environment for such companies seems to be just right. But I know the law of the braking lead and the danger of leaning back and thus losing the vanguard position. I can see that. I am therefore prepared to have research conducted into what is even more necessary to secure the digital mainport sustainably. Mr. Chairman. Then artificial intelligence, artificial intelligence of augmented intelligence. It's changing. This is perhaps the greatest revolution in humanity, because we are working on technology that will complement people and even sometimes replace them on parts. The Netherlands is at the forefront of this in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u126	One moment, Mr Verhoeven has his last question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u127	Well, that depends. The Secretary of State says things about the digital mainport here, but I have a question about my amendment and the response the Secretary of State is going to give to it. She hasn't done that yet, has she? That's what she does at the end, I think?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u128	You can keep that until the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u129	No, because if the Secretary of State does not reply to my amendment until the second time, I will not be able to respond to it. I think the Secretary of State is going to do this at the end of her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u130	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u131	Then I'll wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u132	Okay, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u133	I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u134	Mr. Chairman. The last thing I said was that the Netherlands is at the forefront of artificial intelligence in Europe. I'm always struggling with how to pronounce "EY," but I do know that it's based in Amsterdam, on behalf of Microsoft, it turns out that this is because of the good cooperation with universities and companies. A number of large companies are at the forefront of the adoption of AI. Science in the AI field is above average. Dutch companies are good at obtaining AI-related research. 9% of the European Horizon 2020 programme is funded by Dutch companies. There are several examples in this context. Nico.lab is a spin-off of the AMC, in which AI accurately and quickly analyzes a brain scan after a stroke, to name just one example. We come with an artificial intelligence action plan, in which we work together with MBO, TNO, VNO, ICAI, the innovation center of the UvA and Team ICT. We focus as much as possible on concrete AI issues. We aim to present this agenda in spring 2019, I would just like to say a word to Mr Verhoeven. In response to a request from him, we also make AI a central theme during the digital summit. An important building block is the recent AINED report, recently prepared by VNO-NCW, Team ICT and the Innovation Center for Artificial Intelligence. Mr. Chairman. Attention is also paid to small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not always have an R&D and ICT department. Fortunately, there are good initiatives. I've already mentioned Commit2Data. Another important point of interest is the fact that many people have some fear that robots will replace us and that technology will take over us. I understand that. At the same time, however, I can see that while jobs have disappeared in the past, we no longer see lanterns walking on the street, but I also see that many other jobs have returned incredibly. That will also happen here: at MBO, HBO and WE levels. I'm convinced of that. One of the main concerns is, of course, ethics. It is precisely in this development that this is crucial. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working on that. I am very much following that myself. I do that because when people have no confidence in technology, for example, because they fear that ethical limits will be exceeded, they will not use that technique. Then we miss the economic opportunities of that. That is why it is so important that we look very closely at this. It is also important at European level to develop clear ethical and legal guidelines. I'm gonna blow my game with that. Mr. Chairman. Questions have also been asked about the auction of the 3.5 GHz band and the multiband auction. They have been answered in writing. So I'm gonna leave that for now. Then I come to my last block: innovation. Innovation revolves around the ability to come up with new ideas, products and processes that amaze the world; ideas that feed our economy and our society. That is why the top sectors policy has also been given a new direction. It is not just about economic opportunities, but also about meeting the societal challenges we have formulated with each other. I would like to mention energy transition and sustainability; agriculture, water and food; health and care; safety; the key technologies of photonics, ICT, artificial intelligence and quantum technology. So you can see again that all these different policy areas of mine come together at different times. A part of the start-ups I'm taking to Las Vegas has such a challenge at the heart of its existence. Mr. Chairman. Innovation is not just for the hip start-ups and the big companies with a big department for research and development. I am also paying close attention to small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they can benefit from the support we provide as a cabinet in the field of innovation. Some of the money earmarked for the abolition of dividend taxes also goes to small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr Verhoeven asked me what the further development of this new top sectors and innovation policy looks like. The departments are now working together with the top teams, knowledge institutions and other stakeholders to prepare the missions. No, Mr Sienot asked me that question. Well... You don't look alike, I'd say, but okay. These missions set out an inspiring ambition and clear goals. That's what that's all about. The cabinet will establish them in the spring, expected in April. These missions then guide the preparation of the SKIA's, the Strategic Knowledge and Innovation Agendas, by the top sectors. It will set up innovation agendas for the top sectors in close cooperation with departments and other stakeholders. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the PPS supplement. This cabinet has allocated 150 million in structural terms to stimulate innovation. The budget for the PPS bonus has been increased by 50 million. The total PPS surcharges for the knowledge systems therefore increase from 122 million in 2018 to structurally 172 million. We need some of these resources in order to absorb the increased use of the 25% rate, which we have increased to 30%. The latter is the recommendation that resulted from the interim evaluation of the scheme, the AWTI opinion, and the wish of the Knowledge Coalition. The scheme is very successful in supporting public-private cooperation. The downside is that it is being used more than expected. I have looked at further possibilities to address the larger batter in a way that makes the pps surcharge more effective. Then you need to get back to the essence of the PPS supplement. This is that companies are encouraged to invest in public-private research that benefits a large part of the sector, and that knowledge institutions are encouraged to use part capacity on research programmes relevant to companies. Two parts of the current scheme work indirectly: in the case of contract research within the agendas of the top sectors and in the contribution in kind to European research projects. I have therefore informed the Chamber that it intends to change the basis. With this, I focus more on direct stimulating public-private collaboration research and achieve a saving that allows me to maintain the premium rate at 30%. Then there is by some of you... I am almost at the end of my speech, Mr President. I see you looking. I've been talking about the Wbso before. The spokesmen of the Christian Union and the CDA asked me to come back in more detail to the possibilities for process innovation in the Wbso. I'd be happy to. In 2016 the Wbso has been somewhat limited in the field of process innovation; not entirely, but somewhat. The Wbso category of process-oriented technical research was then abolished. Under this category, a study on a significant improvement in the production process was supported: it was not about actually carrying out research and development in the production process itself. Research and development in the production process are of great importance and are therefore still supported in the Wbso. You get the occasional feeling that people say it's not in there anymore, but it's not. More than 134 million of support was provided in 2017 for the development of technically new production processes. Because this subject often comes back, also in conversations with for example the Metaalunie, I would like to explain with a number of examples when process innovation is not supported in the Wbso and when process innovation is not supported. And know that we are also talking to the Metaalunie, to see exactly what we are talking about. Indeed, the Metaalunie has also advocated process innovation in the Wbso. For example, if a company develops a new welding robot for the adaptation of a production process or develops parts of a welding robot itself, and solves technical problems, this innovation is covered by the Wbso. If the company acquires a welding robot ready-to-use, and then has to adapt the production process to work with that new welding robot, then it is not basically covered by the Wbso unless a company has to develop new technical software to use the machine. The same applies to investing in advanced machinery by metal companies or, for example, for a new innovative oven at a bakery. The Wbso evaluation will be completed by the end of this year. This evaluation will take into account process innovation and the abolition of the category of process-oriented technical research in 2016. Of course, I am prepared to have that conversation with the Metalunie..................................................................................................................................................................................................... I will return to that in the first quarter of 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u135	That was the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u136	No, I wasn't quite finished, but I see Mr Bruins walking towards the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u137	Speak quietly. I'll take care of the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u138	Finally, Mr President. On the one hand, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs is doing what it has always done, namely shaping processes that keep our economy running and that allow entrepreneurs to undertake. In addition, we have two major challenges: digitalisation and the climate. These are about changes and the conditions under which we will succeed in giving them a good turn as a country. And that in an honest way, so that we continue to be at the forefront as we have done so far. The intention is that we should not compete on terms of employment, that shop owners should be allowed to speak for a moment about my own portfolio rather than being open seven days a week, that there should be healthy market forces without farmers gradually getting too little for the work they do, and that there should be healthy relationships between franchisees and franchisees. My mission is always to prepare the Dutch economy and society for all the changes that are coming. In fact, it's more than that: we need to stay ahead of innovations that amaze the world, and come up with new things that address societal challenges. And progress is progress if everyone benefits from it: small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups, consumers, start-ups, seniors and families. Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of topics that I would have liked to talk about a lot longer today. I sometimes say, "I'm the Secretary of State for a thousand and one things." I like that very much, but that just means that you have to limit yourself. I will stop after the next topic that you, Chairman, will charm: the Shopping Time Act. The cabinet wants to amend the Shopping Times Act to protect shopkeepers from unilaterally imposed opening hours by third parties, such as a shopkeeper's association or an association of owners. The bill aims to give the shopkeeper an explicit right of consent to such decisions, which means that he can no longer be forced to open seven days a week if he does not want to. Last weekend I saw in Groningen how this kind of decision-making intervenes in these people's lives. Several spokesmen have asked me what the planning looks like. The bill is now in internet consultation, so you can find it all on the internet. If it all goes on and on as it looks now, my intention is to deal with the bill in your Chamber in the first half of 2019. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u139	And we thank the Secretary of State for her speech. Then there is a question from Mr Amhaouch. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u140	I had just missed the bridge to innovation as my ears were splashed to the shopping times. Let me come back to innovation. First of all, thank you for the State Secretary's commitment to look at the Wbso process with the parties. Especially at this time, when there is a shortage of hands and in which we as the Netherlands have to be competitive, the Wbso process is going to help very much. But where I want to go, and whatever I put in in the first installment, is the road map for that 2.5%. We've talked about that before. It is important that the cabinet does so in the coming years. Maybe we won't all make it through this cabinet period, but at least we'll have a look at the next cabinet period. How are we gonna put the building blocks down to get that 2.5%?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u141	The question is clear. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u142	So what are we talking about when it comes to the 2.5% target? That is 2.5% of GDP, to be spent on research and development. If you look at the percentages, you can see that public investments are being made; that's where the figures are being achieved. What's left is the private side. Businesses will therefore have to step up their efforts. It's 2% now, and it's 2.5%. How do we do that? By attracting additional private investment with public funds. In my speech I mentioned the various instruments: the pps, the extra money put into the TO2 institutions, so that they can develop new things together with companies, the WBSO that goes up and make the location climate attractive. We hope that by reducing the tax on profits there will also be more room for investment in all new technologies. Not to mention Invest-NL, which is also an example of this. So we're actually trying to seduce the Dutch industry with various instruments, so we're going to make that 2.5% investment in research and development in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u143	Mr Amhaouch has a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u144	Those instruments are very good, because we can turn different buttons. At the same time, however, the Secretary of State also indicated that, for example, we are already running into the pps, which is a very good lever to do more about R&D. My question is not for the Secretary of State to resolve that today, but I would ask the Secretary of State or the Ministry of EZK to come up with a roadmap for how we are going to get to that 2.5% what do we need for that and not to make that choice? The Secretary of State made it very clear in the letter that there are four guidelines for how we can achieve that 2.5%. However, I would also like to mention the regional aspect. If we see that there are differences between the regions, how can we ensure that the regions together rise to 2.5%?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u145	Mr Amhaouch asks how 'we' are going to do this and says that there should be a road map from the government, but I have just shown with figures that, in particular, business is lagging behind in this. They need to invest more. Then what can we do in this? To offer the tools to seduce them. I just gave an anthology of all the instruments we have for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u146	A follow-up question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u147	I think this is my last question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u148	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u149	But I think this theme is very important and it will come back a few times. The Dutch business community does much more to R&D than abroad, for example the Belgians. However, I would like the Secretary of State to come up with a roadmap with industry, in which we can quantify, because if we use certain instruments and if the business community is going to take certain steps, we can move towards that 2.5, plus or minus. That's the picture I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u150	Does the Secretary of State still need a response?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u151	No, Mr. Chairman, I think I've been clear. Mr Amhaouch asks for a road map. I am, of course, prepared to list the information contained in the annex to the letter Towards a mission-driven innovation policy, in which we are able to get there, with all the different instruments I have mentioned, but it is now up to business to do so. So I do not really know what else would have to be included in such a roadmap to achieve that. I think we're really on the road already. Over your head, I say to business: now it's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u152	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u153	About the Wbso. The cabinet intends to increase the second disc and release 76 million for it. That's happened before. After the economic crisis, the government did so at the time. This was evaluated in 2012. The Ministry's evaluation report states: we find no significant evidence of higher S&D efforts as a result of the increase in the discount rate in the second disc. That was the case for the first disc. My question to the cabinet is: if his own assessment has not been at the basis of the increase in the second disc at the moment, what has been the reason? What is the basis for the 76 million extra for large companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u154	I feel a little torn up right now. I have just had an interruption from a Member of Parliament who asks me to do more about the financial instruments to ensure that business invests in research and development. So we do; we raise the Wbso, also in the second disc. Then there's a MP who says you do, but it's not effective. I do not know the quote, but I assume that Mr Alkaya is quoting correctly. At the same time, we are now a number of years ahead. I hear Mr Alkaya say that there is no point, because this is going to be the case with large companies. That's not true. I think 2,500 companies are using the second disc together. 2,100 of these are small and medium-sized enterprises. That is the larger small and medium-sized enterprises, where between five and six staff are engaged in research and development. I stand for the decision that has been taken, precisely on the basis of the idea of encouraging innovative small and medium-sized enterprises and businesses to do more about research and development, because it is ultimately going to create jobs and the associated economic growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u155	Maybe I missed it, you know, but can the Secretary of State perhaps discuss the creditboy practices? I asked some questions about this in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u156	I think that is even the first question that has been answered in writing. I don't really have much to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u157	Okay. I have, of course, seen that answer. I have two questions about that. The Secretary of State writes that the AFM ensures that telecom providers take a loan test, including a review at the Credit Registration Office. It is now the case that research has shown that it may take up to four weeks for a registration to be processed in the BKR. In the meantime, in those four weeks, young people can simply close several telephone subscriptions. The Secretary of State presents this as part of the solution, but in practice it does not work that way. Can she respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u158	That is also apparent from the reply. It's a complicated problem. With a single solution, you do not immediately put an end to these practices which can be extremely annoying for individual citizens. It is a combination of cases, including the Ministry of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u159	A follow-up question from Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u160	Finally, I would like to ask what the Secretary of State is about a central IMEI platform. That's some kind of database with IMEI numbers, so that those stolen phones can be blocked from a distance using the IMEI number and can therefore be rendered unusable. How does she feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u161	That seems to me to be a subject to be dealt with in the second term, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u162	Mr Verhoeven has half a question at his disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u163	I have a question about the digital mainport. Indeed, in 2015 I tabled a motion, which was adopted Chamberwide, to make the digital infrastructure a mainport, such as Schiphol and the port of Rotterdam, because it is crucial infrastructure for our economy. However, despite the positive intentions and the smaller steps taken by the Secretary of State, we lack some concrete investments and we lack a concrete vision. We'd really like to go one step further. That is why I have tabled an amendment to free up 1 million for this digital mainport, including drawing up a vision for that mainport that goes beyond what we all describe as having AMS-IX in Amsterdam and that we are among the top in terms of the fastest internet in Europe. Could the Secretary of State do anything to enhance that ambition for a digital mainport?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u164	I realize now that I have not yet gone into the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u165	That's right. Otherwise, I would have reminded you of that. Perhaps you can answer this question first and then the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u166	I shall then go straight to Mr Verhoeven's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u167	Fine. What number does that have?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u168	That is the amendment to item No. 11. He himself said this in the explanatory statement to his amendment in which he made 1 million available to stimulate the digital mainport. In my term, I have addressed in detail what we are all doing in the area of the digital economy. That's point 1. He states in his amendment that there is no concrete investment in the development of the mainport. I don't think that statement is correct. Through the Digitalisation Strategy, we invest in the goals of the digital mainport: strengthening the business environment for ICT companies, cybersecurity and digital connectivity. We just don't explicitly do this under the title 'digital mainport'. But the fact that we do that on all these different issues is absolutely clear when it comes to cyber security and digital security, for example. There is also additional money in the coalition agreement. My ministry is also investing in that. The sea cables, which are also discussed, do not invest in them at the moment. By the way, you won't be there by $1 million. We do keep an incredibly close eye on the situation, precisely because they are so fundamental to our digital economy and being a digital mainport. I therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u169	The amendment in part No. 11 is not recommended. Do you then appreciate the other amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u170	Okay. Then I have the amendment to item No. 8 of Mr Bromet and Mr Snel, in which they propose to release an additional 100 million for the PPS allowance. As I have just said, we have already structurally increased the PPP payment by 50 million to 172 million. The proposed increase in the budget has a generic effect on the scheme and will not benefit SMEs exclusively. The cover is found in the innovation box. This is inadequate coverage due to the separation of costs and benefits, income and expenditure. That is why I do not recommend the amendment to item No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u171	The amendment in part No. 8 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u172	Then I have the amendment to item No. 12 of Mr Bruins and Mr Veldman, proposing to extend the Sustainable Shipbuilding Grant Scheme for a total of 5 million by one year, and to at least evaluate it. I shall leave this amendment to the Court's opinion. It notes the continuation of that subsidy scheme and intends to address risks in the event of sustainability innovations in view of the international competitiveness of the Dutch shipbuilding industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u173	The amendment in part No. 12 shall be left to the judgment of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u174	Then I have Amendment No 1 to the motion for a resolution. 13 by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Wörsdörfer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u175	That is now the amendment to item No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u176	13 turned 14, that had not yet reached me. This is intended to increase the PPPs by 5 million, and above all to ensure that the HTSM sector reaps the benefits. I leave this amendment to the Court's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u177	The vote will be taken at the next voting time. 14 is left to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u178	The reason for this is that the changes to the basis, as I have just indicated, have a different impact and largely end up with HTSM. That is why this amendment is left to the discretion of the Chamber, because it partly fixes it. Then I think I am through my amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u179	That's right. Fine. Thank you very much. This put an end to the government's first term. Before we move on to the second term, Mr Moorlag has another question. It's possible. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u180	On the block of unanswered questions, I found another question that I asked Mr Wiebes in the first term. That is the question as to whether it will provide sufficient foundation for the post 2030 period in this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u181	I propose that Mr Wiebes take the answer to this question in the second term. I see that Mr Moorlag wishes to clarify his question further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u182	For example, I mentioned hydrogen, for example, the networks. Are we going to make the right investments in this infrastructure? Let me give you a very concrete example. TenneT has to make an outlet at sea. It could do something there in the form of an oil platform. But there are also plans, also from the market, to build an island in the North Sea on which several functions can be combined. Does the Minister have sufficient regard for this type of project, that type of investment? Is he also prepared to talk to the initiators in good time in that particular case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u183	The question is clear? I see the Minister nodding. This has really put an end to the first term of office of the rulers. We're moving on to the second term. The first speaker is Mr Kops. We've been able to interfere quite well. Maybe it's time to focus on the motions to be filed. Mr. Kops, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. However, very cheerful the PVV did not become of it. Meanwhile, critics are silenced. Critics seem to have nothing to say, says VVD-climate pope Ed Nijpels of the Climate Council. Those opposed to windmills are excluded from the sectoral tables where the climate agreement is being negotiated. I quote Mr Nijpels. "It is clear that there will be windmills, at sea and on land. If you are against windmills, you have no business at such a table." Mr. Chairman. It's like some kind of cult. If you're not a climate fetishist, you have to keep your mouth shut. How undemocratic you want it! In other words, these windmills must and will be built. There's no discussion about it. The people in the country who are concerned, people who oppose the arrival of windmills, those people should just keep their mouths shut. That much is clear. That is why we have tabled the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to end the negotiations on the climate agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that energy costs will continue to increase in the coming years;]] [[noting that more and more households are having trouble paying the energy bill;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the Storage of Renewable Energy (ODE) and the Sustainable Energy Production (SDE+) Incentive Scheme, thereby reducing household energy bills,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the energy account tax rebate (i.e. energy tax reduction) was ever created to keep energy, a basic requirement, affordable;]] [[noting that the Government intends to reduce this tax rebate;]] [[Whereas the energy account will continue to increase and is far from affordable for ever more households;]] [[calls on the Government not to reduce the tax discount on the energy account,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-16]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-17]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u185	Thank you, Mr President. In my first term, I made it a clear point, I think: EZK's core business is, as far as I am concerned, that rules must be enforceable and manageable and entrepreneurs want to think along. I have three motions, which are basically intended as a stick behind the door, also for these leaders towards colleagues from other departments. The first is on the SME test. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the evaluation of the SME test trials is to be provided to the Court at the beginning of April 2019;]] [[Whereas entrepreneurs are eager to consider the practical feasibility of new rules and laws;]] [[considers that the SME test should be introduced as soon as possible,]] [[invites the government to present directly in the evaluation how the SME test can be implemented, with all departments working according to the "application or explanation" principle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that employers have to deal with many administrative requirements for staffing;]] [[Whereas, especially for smaller employers, the administrative burden is disproportionate in terms of timing;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the relevant implementing bodies, to identify the administrative obligations of the employership and to make proposals to achieve substantial simplifications and reliefs, for example through a life event approach,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that access to finance for SMEs is relatively often lagging behind their wishes;]] [[noting that this hampers the growth of SMEs;]] [[noting that traditional financiers often hold on to disproportionate collateral, even if loans have been substantially repaid and the collateral is now exceeding a loan;]] [[noting that it restricts funding opportunities by other financiers;]] [[considers that established securities should be proportionate to the financing provided;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how collateral rights can be reviewed to speed up the eligibility of SME entrepreneurs for funding,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wörsdörfer, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Bruins and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-19]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wörsdörfer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-20]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wörsdörfer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u186	We would then have said in the first term that we would make recommendations on how to deal with shoplifting. I thought it would be appropriate to offer this officially through you, Mr President. So I have our recommendations here. I'll hand it over to you, and through you, they'll end up with the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u187	One of the messengers will receive them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u188	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u189	And then we'll pass them on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u190	Thank you. Finally, a comment on the importance of innovations. There has already been a necessary exchange on the Wbso. I understand that a point will be raised later, which is also warmly supported by the VVD. An assessment has just been made of the amendment extending the PPP payment, an effective measure for research and development. This is where extra money goes, and this will benefit knowledge institutions in particular. That is an additional explanation of the tabling of that amendment, Mr President. That's it for the EZ part as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u191	Thank you. Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If we want to pass the Netherlands on to the generations after us in a nice and beautiful way, we need to have a smart climate policy. We discussed this in detail, and as far as the VVD is concerned, it is extremely important that we then make climate policy accessible to all Dutch people and that we do so in a way that makes people know where they are going, that we take care of them and that we make sure that they just know where they can go. I asked some questions about that and it was ultimately about Environment Central. I have a motion on that, and I would like to read it to you now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the energy transition entails changes;]] [[whereas the Dutch may feel alarmed by this because it is not clear to them whether and when something is going to change in their immediate surroundings;]] [[Whereas it is important to provide good information so that people know where they stand;]] [[whereas the website Environment Central plays an important role in this;]] [[Calls on the Government to consult with the UNG on how best to inform citizens about and involve them in the heat plans in their neighbourhood;]] [[also invites the government to consult with Environment Central in the short term on adding a search module focusing on heat plans per neighborhood,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Sienot, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag, Mr Akerboom, Mr Stoffer and Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one more motion, and it's about reducing the cost of a gas connection. It is aimed at people who say: I do not want to wait and I want to get to work myself, but then I have to deal with high costs. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that system operators may temporarily seal gas connections on request to shut down a house from the gas;]] [[whereas system operators incur less costs in the case of sealing than in the case of removing a gas connection and therefore the cost to consumers is lower;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to ensure long-term closure of a gas connection at low cost for households willing to shut down their homes from gas and to inform the Court of Justice thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Sienot, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag, Mr Akerboom, Mr Stoffer and Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have considered a little longer here to consider the desired energy mix that we have talked about before, for example, nuclear energy could be part of. I said in my interruption to the Minister that, of course, there will also be a debate. We also asked written questions. I would like to add the question as to whether the Minister can identify the prospects and expectations. That is a bit in line with what he said earlier about the European market, when it comes to future energy models and scenarios where nuclear energy is and is not part of it. It would be very nice if such an effect could, if possible together with those written questions, be sent to the Chamber for that debate which is still to be planned, so that the debate can then be conducted as substantively as possible. That's what I'm looking forward to right now. Then I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u195	Clear. Thank you. Mr Van der Lee now has the floor and he speaks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you also to the directors for their reflections and for their answers, both orally and in writing. I'm going to make the motions first and then make a few comments. My first motion is about LED lamps. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the obligation of LED lighting in the service sector could generate 0.9 megatons of CO profits;]] [[Whereas the purchase of LED lighting by a lower energy bill will in the long term be recouped;]] [[calls on the Government to require companies to use only LED lighting by 1 July 2020;]] [[calls on the government to set a good example by also switching to LED lighting in its buildings and installations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u197	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are still unnecessary procedural obstacles to energy transition for, among other things, vves and energy cooperatives, especially those who are enthusiastic about the energy transition;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate these obstacles, in particular for vves and energy cooperatives, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the water-side adjustment of central heating boilers is a simple measure which can save a lot of energy;]] [[noting that this measure is not included in the list of recognised measures established under the Environmental Management Act;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of including water-side schemes on the list of recognised measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the emergence of more renewable weather-dependent electricity will increase the variation in the supply of electricity;]] [[Whereas batteries can play a major role in absorbing these variations and thus exploiting as much renewable electricity as possible;]] [[noting that at present energy taxes are levied twice on the same current, namely at the time it is stored in the battery and at the time it is used;]] [[noting that, despite provisions to avoid double taxation, double taxation may nevertheless occur;]] [[Calls on the Government to identify possible solutions to this situation and to report on them to the Chamber in the first quarter of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the SDE+ scheme is currently not attractive to smaller wind turbines with a power of less than 1 MW;]] [[Whereas smaller windmills are more feasible and supported by energy cooperatives;]] [[Whereas there are now solitary windmills which are not replaced by new windmills at the end of their lifespan, thereby reducing wind power capacity;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how smaller wind turbines can be stimulated, whether or not via the SDE+ scheme;]] [[calls on the Government to also consult with ECN, IPO, VNG and the wind sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-25]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-26]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-27]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag and Mr Akerboom. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u198	I would like to make a few comments, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u199	That is possible, given your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u200	Yes. I was very pleased that the Minister once again explained very well the cost of the energy transition. He indicated that it would cost a 60th of growth in the long term. That's really good. I have one more question. Does the Minister not agree with the CPB on whether the CPB can map, in a bandwidth, what the possible damage could be to our GDP from a number of possible impacts of climate change? I do not need a total package that has everything to the point, but it is a long-term damage to climate change. Think of damage to inland waterways that cannot sail because there is too little water in the Rhine, or harvests that fail because it is incredibly dry. I would like to know more about some of these effects and their possible economic impact on GDP. I also have one question about contract for difference. The Minister replied in writing to a question on this subject. He writes: I will make the choice between contract for difference and auction possible independently of the law, so that any other choice in the long term does not need to change the law. I think that's a win, but what's he thinking about? Do I have to think of a general measure of governance? Is there anything else he can say about that? Then I think the Minister was a little too easy to finish off the doubler. He imposes it on the province, but thinks the Empire doesn't have to, because the Empire focuses on CO reduction. Of course, that's what the county can say. And if he is so confident that he is going to achieve the renewable energy target, then he can just make the promise that if that doesn't work out, he will do it twice. Finally, I would like to say something about Groningen. We agree: tempo, tempo, tempo, both in the damage handling and in the reinforcement. I would like to ask one more question. Will the Minister with GroenLinks and a large part of the Chamber make every effort to prevent really unsafe houses from being kept under the radar? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u201	Thank you very much. I call Mr Amhaouch. He speaks for the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u202	Mr President, I have three motions for resolutions. I'll start with that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that small businesses have fewer rights than a consumer to up to ten employees and are also reluctant to obtain their rights due to costly and long-term judicial proceedings against larger parties and the fear of the loss of an important client;]] [[Considering that this makes it vulnerable to achieving justice towards larger parties, which could put pressure on enforcement of laws and regulations;]] [[Whereas it might be possible for a public supervisor to have a role in the collective protection of small entrepreneurs;]] [[Whereas the government is going to investigate imbalances;]] [[calls on the Government to include in this investigation whether it is necessary and proportionate to give public oversight a role in the collective protection of small entrepreneurs and to include in its assessment whether the investigation reveals harmful imbalances,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that customs sighs under explosive growth of direct online purchases by consumers at foreign webshops from third countries such as China and America;]] [[Considering that this results in an increase in non-compliant products on the European and Dutch markets, while it is important that products comply with all European standards on product safety and environmental requirements;]] [[Whereas, outside the European market, there is uncertainty as to who is responsible for ensuring that the product meets all the EU's product and quality requirements and if the product does not comply, who is responsible for informing the authorities and consumers and for removing the product from the market;]] [[Whereas the European Commission is in the process of adopting a regulation on compliance with and enforcement of the Harmonisation Act;]] [[calls on the Government to promote in the EU that third-country companies selling online products to consumers in Europe are required to have a liability officer, who is a person responsible for conformity on European territory,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-29]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Van den Berg and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u203	Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas credit unions are a nice addition to the provision of SME finance;]] [[Whereas it would be a shame if this form of financing were to be cancelled and inter-branch organisations were to consider how best to ensure the viability of this form of financing;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the development and future prospects of the financing of credit unions and the functioning of interbranch organisations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Bruins, Mr Moorlag and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u204	If I hear Mr Amhaouch's motions in this way, we will be able to accept a few more researchers. It's research, research, research. But a lot of entrepreneurs have, as I have said, problems with lending. Can't you go a little further than "research"? A little more action, like "now this"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u205	When we talk specifically about credit unions, this has been an initiative of the CDA and the PvdA in the past, of its predecessors. Maybe that's what you supported. It's been for my period. In any case, we have given this new method a chance by putting financial resources in place. Organisations 'the bakers around the corner', as we say, have benefited from this, but now it appears that organisations are asking if that has a future perspective. That is why we are now asking the Secretary of State to take a good look at this concept. This concept has added value, but how can we make the futureproof? That, I think, is a very concrete one. I believe that we also discussed it in the first term in a small debate with Mr Öztürk: we are waiting for the evaluation in the first quarter of 2019. Then we will come back to funding, because this remains an important point and is also part of the SME Action Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u206	Another follow-up question. Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u207	When I was allowed to be a member of the PvdA Chamber, I supported that. At that time it was also quite often discussed. Only, even then, we knew what would happen in the future. That was familiar information. But again, we can wait until March 2019, when the research results come, but do you have any ideas to make it easier for entrepreneurs already? My point is about the banks. Would you ask the Minister and the Secretary of State to talk to the banks to get them to do something for entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u208	Before we started this budget debate today, there has been a VAO Enterprise and finance. In particular, when I tabled a motion, I asked for further attention to be given to the need for clarity. The one story we know is that the banks say we're doing well, but there are also bad plans. On the other hand, there is the story of the entrepreneur who says: yes, we do not get funding. I'd like to bring these two worlds together. We wait carefully for the results. In the meantime, of course, we are simply working on better financing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u209	Clear. Then the floor is now...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u210	No, Mr. Chairman. I've got 24 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u211	Excuse me, excuse me!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u212	I must, of course, thank the Minister and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u213	Right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u214	It is the budgetary treatment of Economic Affairs. That's where the money is made. We need to think about that. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for the proper response. I think this cabinet stands up for the small businessman and also protects him. The future and competitiveness of the Netherlands lie in more innovation. I think this is also receiving a great deal of attention, including from this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u215	Thank you very much. Mrs Mulder has the floor, also on behalf of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u216	Mr President, thank you. I shall first read out some motions and then make some general comments. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas our inhabitants in Drenthe suffer greatly throughout the process of establishing the wind farm in the Veenkoloniën;]] [[Whereas the picture has emerged that the capacity of the wind farm would not exceed 150 MW;]] [[speaks out for developers to discuss, together with the surroundings, the maximum capacity of the wind farm and, if possible, reconsider;]] [[calls on the government to grant tighter permits in the future to prevent any further discussion of the maximum capacity of a wind farm,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the steel industry is a relatively large polluter and also a major local employer and should therefore be encouraged to produce more sustainable products;]] [[Whereas the steel industry can take significant steps towards reducing CO emissions with the production of greener steel;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to promote and actively promote green steel production at European level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas as a society we want to achieve the goal of Paris;]] [[Whereas climate tables are looking at measures and projects that will have a major impact on the daily life and environment of residents and businesses;]] [[Whereas there are energy points where citizens can consult on energy saving and renewable energy and there is no place for residents and businesses to go with complaints, problems and ideas;]] [[Whereas it is important that there is one central place where all these signals come together so that we can learn lessons from them;]] [[calls on the Government to explore and take seriously the need for a hotline where residents and SMEs can use complaints, problems and ideas on climate policy and the associated rules of government, under the climate agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the success of regional strategies and thermal vision is extremely important for the energy transition;]] [[Whereas acceptance of regional energy strategies and thermal vision is essential for the success and hence the involvement of residents;]] [[calls on the government to provide framework conditions for regional energy strategies and heat visions to ensure that residents are adequately involved in the design and implementation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-32]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Sienot, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-33]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Sienot, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-34]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u217	I saw it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and his people for the answer. I get a second-term reaction on the small windmills to replace existing village and other windmills. That question is a bit like the GroenLinks motion in part No. 28. There are still a number of debates about Groningen. Good in any case that the capacity for the damage handling is greatly increased. That's what it takes. That acceleration will really have to be achieved. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u218	I don't quite understand what you said, Mr. Chairman, but I'm just gonna keep my second term. The cabinet started with a macro-economic analysis, which I sum up as: it's going well. In general terms, the economy is indeed doing well, but it depends on who you ask. I belong to the generation of 30s, the first generation since the Second World War for which it is not self-evident that it will be better than its parents. In the meantime, the economy has indeed grown strongly. We have all become more productive, but only a small group benefits from it. The Minister can deny that, but the graph I'm showing here simply shows the figures: labour productivity against the real wage rate. If a Minister of Economic Affairs says that's not true, then he really needs to go back to his homework. That's just the way it is. I ask the Minister: is that fair? No, of course that's not fair. If we all produce more, if we are more effective and productive, then we should all progress. Then the Minister says: look at the gini coefficient and then you see that things are going very well in the Netherlands and that it is not bad with inequality. But that gini coefficient is not suitable to measure extreme inequality. When a very small group, 1% to 10% of society, gets richer and richer, it is not easy to see in the gini coefficient. But if you compare it to what the lowest-earning 1% to 10% of society earns, you can see that the difference has increased enormously. And GroenLinks also mentioned the power inequality. It is now the largest in the Netherlands after that in the United States. Then it is said: pensions. But retirement isn't capital. You can't buy bread from pensions. You can't do things about pensions when you get into trouble. Retirement is deferred pay. Mr. Chairman. The fact is that in the boardrooms of large companies it is decided not to invest the growing profits in research, the R&D remains behind at private institutions, as the State Secretary said, and not to invest in wages, as I have just shown, but to pay it more and more to the shareholders, for example by buying back shares, by paying dividends or by raising the bonuses of the people who are in the boardroom themselves. To reverse this trend, the SP proposes to increase employee control. So I'm not surprised this cabinet doesn't want that. A group that also draws the shortest conclusion from this cabinet is small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course there are fine words here, but when there is money to be distributed, when choices have to be made, the cabinet simply chooses the multinationals and the large business again. The 76 million involved in research and development also goes to large companies. We just talked about that. I asked in my first term: what is the basis? Why exclude a large proportion of small and medium-sized enterprises? No answer. What is the basis for that? In the interruption just now, I asked you to do so. No answer. I therefore propose that I give the 2012 evaluation of the Ministry itself, which states that the increase in the second disc does not lead at all to additional research and development work, through the messenger to the cabinet. It's marked. And then I challenge the cabinet to come up with another basis. Of course, throwing out 1.9 billion, giving a gift to the big business is bad, but throwing out 76 million is of course also bad. Hence the next motion, my only motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet intends to make additional EUR 76 million available for research and development;]] [[noting that the Wbso enables small and medium-sized enterprises to carry out more and more risky research and development work and to apply new knowledge in their business, but that this effect is much less for large enterprises;]] [[calls on the government to use the additional funds for the S&D reduction so that all small and medium-sized enterprises can benefit from them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then I'll just start filing my motions. Then I'm sure I won't run out of time. The first motion concerns the future fund for Groningen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that Shell/Exxon is making 400 million richer with the agreement on main lines;]] [[noting that 100 million will be made available for the future fund to be set up in Groningen;]] [[believes that this is unfair and that the 400 million for Shell is due to the victims in Groningen;]] [[calls on the Government to open up the agreement on key issues with Shell/Exxon and to make these resources available to the future Groningen Fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Akerboom. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u220	With this motion we have just tabled an amendment to regulate the other part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u221	That is the amendment to item No. 15. Perhaps in the second term the Minister can take that into account in the appreciation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u222	We find it absurd that the Shell and Exxon, the perpetrators, will receive 400 million next year, while the victims will receive only 100 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u223	The motivation is clear, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u224	Good. Then my second motion, which is about climate justice for us. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, following the introduction of an effective CO levy, the money would flow to the state treasury;]] [[considers that these revenues should be for the benefit of further sustainability;]] [[believes that this can support both households and businesses;]] [[calls on the government to stop the proceeds from the CO levy in a climate justice fund and to use it to make households and businesses more sustainable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u225	Canada is a very good example of where they do this. 90% of the CO tax is returned to the residents. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my final motion on the coal fund. It's a motion to please learn from the past. This isn't the first energy transition. When we switched from coal to gas, the mines were closed. The scars are still visible in the mining region in Limburg and we think that we should learn from them and not hit ourselves twice on the same stone. I have just enough seconds to read the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that a major reduction in CO emissions can be achieved if all coal plants are rapidly closed down;]] [[noting that many people are losing their jobs when coal power stations are closed down;]] [[Whereas the ESC also concludes that "mobility" of affected personnel is in practice difficult, both for plant workers themselves and for employees elsewhere in the chain;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a coal fund to provide the necessary tailor-made work to those working in the fossil industry;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u226	Then thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u227	Thank you for your input. I call Mr Sienot. He speaks for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. D66 wants to speed up the transition to clean, renewable energy. The PBL has calculated that it is possible. Now quickly an ambitious climate agreement. It is important that the cabinet does not allow itself to be distracted, but gets to work on achieving the 2030 targets. For that I have two questions, which are very closely linked. It's important that we keep thinking and looking fresh. Let me give you a good example, which I have just mentioned: to see CO not so much as waste that we have to put under the ground, but to think that we can also use it as a raw material. Is it possible to give this priority to the issuance of CCS and CCU grants? My second point is to listen to frontrunners. The team of top sectors now has Shell and GasTerra, all ancient economic giants, but I miss the frontrunners who already notice how to make money in a new way. My specific question to the Secretary of State is why Vandebron or Lagerwey is not in it. How could we change that? I have three motions I'd like to read out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the SDE+ Directive was established to stimulate renewable energy generation;]] [[Whereas different technologies in renewable energy generation are feasible in the Netherlands and SDE+ is intended to cover the uneconomic summit of these forms of generation;]] [[noting that the current SDE+ budget is divided into categories but there are no limits to budgets by category;]] [[noting that innovative techniques of renewable energy generation are not covered for SDE+ subsidies due to competition from non-renewable energy generation due to cost-effectiveness;]] [[calls on the government to consider, in broadening the SDE+ production ceilings, cuts in the SDE+ budget between categories when it appears that some CO reducing techniques are not adequately or excessively addressed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u229	Then I'll come to the next motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is off the Groningen gas;]] [[Whereas we are looking for alternatives to gas to heat houses;]] [[Whereas geothermal energy is a sustainable source of energy with the potential to heat a significant part of the houses to replace gas;]] [[calls on the government to focus on the development of geothermal energy projects in urban areas where many households are still heated by gas;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the safe use of geothermal energy to replace gas in households can be accelerated, in particular in areas where this is now difficult to get off the ground and to inform the Court of Justice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u230	This gives you reason to ask a question about this motion? Go ahead, Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u231	I like the motion. The VVD is also always very enthusiastic about geothermal energy projects and geothermal energy. Only, there is no mention of cost-efficiency. Suppose it would be more cost-effective to heat the houses in that neighborhood, in that neighborhood, in that city or in that region with a different technology. How am I supposed to read this motion in that case? Now we're focusing very much on one technology.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u232	The motion calls for action to be taken in particular where there is an opportunity and to tackle the pilot projects where we can work on them. She doesn't prescribe where that should be. In this sense, cost-effectiveness is, of course, one of the considerations when determining whether an area is appropriate. I don't think we should put a lot of money into something that we can solve in another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u233	Explain enough? Then the next motion. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u234	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that almost 90% of electricity used in data centres comes from renewable sources;]] [[Considering that the Almost Energy-neutral Buildings Standard (BENG), which is related to the European RED Directive, does not qualify as renewable energy with green energy generated (rest) energy from data centres;]] [[noting that this regulation hampers the realisation of heat grids in new construction projects, thus losing residual heat from data centres that can be usefully reused;]] [[noting that we miss the potential of residual heat from data centers to heat 1 million households;]] [[calls on the government to address this regulatory gap in a European perspective and to strive to include residual heat from data centres for the requirements of the new BENG standard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot, Mr Verhoeven, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u235	Finally, Mr President. I often hear: nothing like Groningen. Let's also make sure the Groningers recover soon. I am happy to give the floor to my colleague, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u236	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, you are not allowed to do that, but I am happy to pass it on to Mr Verhoeven. That was a grip on power for a moment. Mr Verhoeven has the floor. Go ahead. He speaks for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u237	Mr. Chairman. I will just read out two motions very quickly and I will explain them to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the coming years there will be a number of technologies that have a major impact on our society, such as 5G, artificial intelligence and quantum computing;]] [[Whereas countries such as Australia, the United States and the United Kingdom have chosen to ban 5G equipment from China for fear of relaying information to the Chinese government;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has chosen to phase out the use of Kaspersky antivirus software;]] [[Considering that the French President Macron has called for strong investment in the development of artificial intelligence in Europe to ensure that the EU is not dependent on technology from China or the United States;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, at European level, an approach to develop certain geopolitical and strategically important technologies, such as 5G, artificial intelligence and quantum computing, in the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u238	My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas existing laws and regulations often do not provide sufficient scope for the market introduction of new innovations and technologies;]] [[noting that the Advisory Committee on Review and Control Pressure (ATR) recommends examining how regulatory pressure can be reduced by innovative supervisory arrangements;]] [[calls on the Government to focus on testing new laws and regulations against the practice of digital entrepreneurs in all efforts to make noticeable improvements in experienced regulatory pressure, and to set up innovative supervisory arrangements in consultation with departments and supervisors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u239	I would, of course, also like to thank the directors very much for their reply. I also welcome the commitment to digitalisation. I see a lot going on. It is put on the agenda and action is being taken. The ambitions are good. I believe that further improvements are possible, but so has the Secretary of State. In the fundamental debate that the Minister started, I asked a question about technology and the future with regard to that crucial strategic technology. I have just tabled a motion for a resolution on these changing relations. On the one hand, the motion deals with the economic competitiveness of the Netherlands: are we the frontrunner in the field of major changing technologies? On the other hand, it is about the more vital and critical infrastructure: do we have control and power over our own systems and can companies from other countries not get too deep into it by inviting them to participate in this technology? Those are the two aspects that have to do with this. I have therefore tabled this motion to ensure that, as the Netherlands and Europe, we think about the strategic geopolitical and also economic changes. The Minister said things about that, but he could not say everything about it. I have to respect that from my modest role, but I do hope that something will happen to it. Mr. Chairman. About artificial intelligence, or artificial intelligence, there will be an action plan, I say to the Secretary of State. A note is already being worked on. I understand that this will be an important subject at the digital summit. I like to keep an eye on it. I once tabled a motion, but I held it, on additional resources for programmes related to artificial intelligence. I shall put it to the vote again in the run-up to the vote on this budget. The Secretary of State already had a positive opinion on this, with her explanation. I endorsed that explanation at the time. In that respect, the motion should be able to pass. Finally, the digital mainport. Of course, I'm disappointed. I know that a million dollars is not enough to build sea cables, but I do think that million dollars is needed to use the investment more for vision and manpower. However, the Secretary of State does not want to do so. I hope that the Chamber will judge this wisely. Mr President, thank you for the good leadership this day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u240	Thank you very much for your input. I call Mr Moorlag. He speaks for the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u241	I have a number of motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands should make a major shift towards sustainable energy management;]] [[considers that the success of the energy transition, in addition to technological challenges, depends above all on the extent to which the changes are accepted by society;]] [[believes that the energy transition can only succeed if it is seen as progress in society and as an improvement in daily life;]] [[believes that this will only happen if the cost of the energy transition is shared fairly and the bill does not fall unilaterally with citizens;]] [[calls on the Government to establish, for the purposes of implementation and acceptance of the Climate Agreement, a consultation table with relevant interested organisations where the issue of obtaining and maintaining support is being discussed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Regional Energy Strategies (RES) should contribute to the achievement of climate objectives;]] [[considers that it should be made clear which government is to be responsible for the implementation of these strategies, what resources are available for them and what powers are needed;]] [[Whereas municipalities indicate that the available procedural resources for the 30 regions in the climate envelope are insufficient;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure the responsibilities, powers and resources for implementing Regional Energy Strategies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, after an initial range of 150 MW-185 MW, the government reduced the size of the Drenthe Monden wind farm to approximately 150 MW;]] [[Whereas the area's wind farm is considered to be a serious deterioration of the environment and has little support for it;]] [[whereas Minister Kamp informed the Chamber by letter: "At the end of 2014, I set the size of the wind farm at 150 MW';]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee, noted that the choice for wind turbines of 4.2 MW requires significantly fewer turbines than the choice for turbines of 3 MW and thus reduces the environmental impact;]] [[Considering that the Government did not grant turbines with a total capacity of approximately 150 MW but turbines with a total capacity of 175,5 MW;]] [[calls on the government to use influence and authority to reduce the size of the wind farm to about 150 MW, in consultation with the initiators,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-45]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-46]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u242	Oh, I genuinely meant I had three minutes left, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u243	No, there's really two minutes on the list. I'm sorry. I can't make it anymore. I call Mr Bruins. He speaks for the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u244	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their words. I thank the Minister for his introduction, in which he made the link between economy and climate, and the need to decouple wealth and use of fossil energy. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her clear words on innovation in the interests of the high-tech sector. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the 'judgement chamber' of the amendment on 5 million for sustainable shipbuilding. As regards the motions and amendments that are coming along, I can say that the Christian Union will support the amendment for PPS for the high-tech sector of the CDA and the VVD, as well as a motion from the SGP and D66 on Sunday closure. I have two motions of my own. The first concerns technical education and the link with industry. It has already been said clearly by the Secretary of State, but I would like to highlight it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that, in view of the considerable shortage of technicians, it is also appropriate to encourage innovative cooperation between education and industry professionals;]] [[calls on the government to identify bottlenecks experienced by entrepreneurs in finding well-trained technical staff, such as in public-private partnerships, hybrid lecturers, host lectures and Life Long Development and to propose possible solutions for this purpose, whether fiscal or not,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u245	Then the second and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2018, the second disc of the Wbso was reduced from 16% to 14%;]] [[having noted that in 2020, the government intends to bring the Wbso tariff back to 16% in the second disc;]] [[Considering that there is a one-off under-exhaustment of the Wbso in 2017 and the RDA in 2015 which has not yet been deployed;]] [[considers that the Wbso is an important tool to promote private R&D in the Netherlands and that continuity of conditions in the Wbso is important for the location and investment environment for R&D-intensive companies;]] [[Calls on the Government to use part of the one-off under-utilisation of the Wbso and the RDA to increase the Wbso rate in the second disc from 14% to 16% by 1 January 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u246	My question to the Christian Union is as follows. The headlines I read yesterday and today about this proposal were: we are going to help SMEs. But how much of SMEs is actually below that first limit? And what percent is above that? So how many percent of SMEs can use these resources at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u247	15% of the budget spent in the second disc is used by SMEs and 85% by large companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u248	Mr Alkaya with a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u249	I note that a large part of the budget brought forward here is not for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises. The amount reserved here by the cabinet, already for next year, will go to large companies to a large extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u250	I don't see a question, but you may respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u251	The Wbso scheme has been in place since 1994 and has often been evaluated. It works well, with relatively little overhead. It is a simple scheme, and that is precisely why small businesses like to use it. Small and new companies are being crossed over to carry out R&D. The first disc was raised from one to two tons about five years ago. In the meantime, it's at three and a half tons. Small and medium-sized enterprises therefore make great use of the Wbso, but there are also a lot of small and medium-sized enterprises and family businesses in that second letter. Three and a half tons, let's say that those are 5 fte of R&D people: there's a reasonable company with a R&D department above them. And although the amount contained in that second disc seems small in budget, the number of SMEs and family businesses using that second disk is very large. These are thousands of companies that will be able to benefit from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u252	Enough. Clear. Thank you. Mr Van Raan is now on the list, but I do not understand that Mrs Akerboom is allowed to go first. We are happy to give her the opportunity to do so. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that when wood is fired, much CO is released and that the combustion of wood is therefore not a good and sustainable replacement of coal or gas;]] [[noting that much of the firewood reaches us by polluting transport from the US and Canada;]] [[points out that the wood stove is not a sustainable energy source,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by TAUW on behalf of the government shows that the subsidy for clean waste wood as an energy source hinders the recycling of wood;]] [[calls on the Government to end the subsidy for the combustion of clean waste wood,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Akerboom. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-52]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Akerboom. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u254	Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the climate agreement sees biomass as an indispensable source of energy for the built environment, industry, aircraft, ships and freight traffic;]] [[noting that the PBL has calculated that there is insufficient sustainable biomass available for all these uses;]] [[calls on the Government not to allocate applications to biomass before it is known how much biomass is available and how it can be used most highly;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Akerboom and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a lot of motions. I'll start with that and see if I can spare some time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that De Nederlandsche Bank proposed to increase the minimum price for CO by a minimum of €50;]] [[noting that the government sees a CO levy as a stick behind the door of the climate council's industrial table;]] [[noting that the industrial table has so far been marked by considerable disagreement;]] [[calls on the government to prepare the increase in the minimum price for CO by at least €50 in advance so that it can be introduced immediately if it has been found that no solution has been found at the industrial table,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, among other things, De Nederlandsche Bank warns against a disruption of financial markets in the foreseeable future as a result of climate change;]] [[Whereas it is important to keep public finances in order in a rapid transition scenario;]] [[noting that it is inconsistent that companies and financial institutions should undergo climate stress tests, but not the government;]] [[noting that there are sufficient estimates on the basis of which a good stress test can be carried out for public finances;]] [[calls on the government to submit Dutch public finances to a climate change stress test as part of a sensible 1.5°C policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister of EZK calls the External Cost Compensation developed by CE Delft the egg of Columbus;]] [[noting that the Minister of EZK has put this instrument on hold because of its complexity;]] [[noting that CE Delft nevertheless sees two development routes to make that system manageable;]] [[calls on the Government to have these development routes examined further,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that policies aimed at short-term GDP growth are detrimental to our planet, climate, habitat and animals;]] [[noting that the Netherlands is a country where shareholder value of companies has gradually become more important in the strategic considerations of higher business management;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to introduce into the Netherlands, as part of a new social contract, a new Rhineland model 2.0, which also includes the interests of future generations, people elsewhere, our planet and other species,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-56]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-55]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-57]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u256	I see we're gonna have time. That's nice, because I'll be able to thank the rulers in just a moment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that current economic growth does not go hand in hand with the necessary reduction of CO emissions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u257	And then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to promote international efforts to explore the possibility of including ecocide in the Rome Statute for the International Criminal Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u258	I'd be happy to. I thank the rulers for their comprehensive answer and the interesting discussion we have had, which will certainly be continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u259	Thank you very much for your input. Mr Stoffer has the floor. He speaks for the SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got three motions and little time, so I'm gonna go right out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas shopkeepers are required to open their shops on Sundays under threat of a periodic penalty payment in several places;]] [[Whereas shopkeepers wishing to establish themselves in a shopping centre are hampered by their freedom of business and establishment, while their negotiating position vis-à-vis landlords is weak;]] [[noting that the government intends to bring forward a legislative proposal to ensure the freedom of entrepreneurs to be closed on Sundays;]] [[calls on the government in the bill to prevent forced shop opening, to ensure that shopkeepers have the freedom to keep their shop closed on Sundays, regardless of their motive, both in the case of a new contract and in the case of an extension,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u261	For you Sunday is very important, but for others Saturday is very important and for others Friday is very important. Does your proposal also apply to people who want to make the arrangement you are proposing on Friday or Saturday?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u262	I'm sympathetic to that. My motion specifically says "Sunday," but I would not be unsympathetic to the freedom to close another day. But I don't have that in my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u263	Members of parliament will have the opportunity to amend their motion later. Is it possible to say: Sunday or Saturday or Friday?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u264	I would like to suggest that you table a motion of your own on this matter. Then we'll see if we can support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u265	Enough. Next move. No, Mr. Öztürk, you've had a follow-up question and that's where it ends.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u266	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that insulation of existing homes does not show an upward trend;]] [[Whereas insulation of existing buildings is effective for CO emission reduction and reduction of gas demand in both the short and longer term;]] [[Whereas post-insulation is given relatively little attention, including in the main points of the Climate Agreement;]] [[Whereas in the coming years the government will spend six times as much money on renewable energy as on energy saving;]] [[calls on the government to make full use of energy savings and specifically isolate existing buildings, and to take this into account in the development of the climate agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u267	I can't wait to find out. The previous motion was about Sunday. Mr Öztürk's question was whether or not that applies to Friday, Saturday, Monday or Tuesday; there is probably some group that would like to have the Wednesday off. Stoffer's answer surprised me. I was expecting another answer. He said, "I'm open to that." Should the Christian tradition for the SGP not have any preferential treatment in the Netherlands compared to other religions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u268	Mr Stoffer may be able to explain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u269	Do you take over the liberal idea of "one finds this, the other finds it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u270	In reply to Mr Baudet, I think you should always be aware of every minority in this country. So if anyone would like to close their shop on Fridays, as far as I'm concerned, they can close their shop on Fridays. But for us, it's about getting you to close that store on Sunday. That is what we have intended with our motion for a resolution. There is also a tradition behind it, a centuries of tradition, which has always been so in this country, so of course I am going for Christian freedoms, but I also have an eye for someone else who, for whatever motive, would like another day. I'm gonna let a guy keep his store closed all week. You don't deserve anything wrong with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u271	A follow-up question from Mr Baudet. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u272	Is it or is it not the case that, as far as you are concerned, Christianity deserves a special place in our legislation and shop opening times and what not already?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u273	Christianity and Christ have a special place in my heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u274	The question was whether this also relates to the policy we are making. As far as you are concerned, should there be special freedoms specific to Christians? There are many Christian holidays in the Netherlands. This is no longer a representative reflection of the population. Should they be preserved because we have certain traditions and so on? Sunday's such a story. Or is it just "all is open, the demographic composition changes"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u275	Your question is clear. Clear. Another reaction from Mr Stoffer and then we close this little debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u276	In that respect, we like to be in the Jewish-Christian tradition that characterizes our country, so that Jewish-Christian tradition of those holidays and those Sundays of course we like to have primate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u277	Clear. Do you have another motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u278	I have another motion. Oh, yeah. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that wind farms and solar panels will, according to the plans, be an important part of future energy supply;]] [[Whereas electricity production from these sources will be very limited a few weeks a year due to low wind and sunshine, while current demand remains high;]] [[Whereas the Planning Office for the Environment advises to examine what the foregoing means for the reliability of the energy supply and its design;]] [[calls on the Government, in the short term, at the same time as the PBL and CPB transfers, to have TenneT map out the various scenarios for the sustainability of energy supply for the reliability of energy supply towards 2050, and to inform the Chamber and the relevant climate tables about its outcome and its possible implications,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u279	Thank you, Mr President. I see I only have two minutes, so I can read my motions very quickly and that's all I'm saying, unfortunately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that approximately 400,000 migrant workers from Eastern Europe are employed in the Netherlands, including agriculture and horticulture, which according to research agency SEO contribute EUR 11 billion to our GDP;]] [[Whereas these migrant workers do physically heavy work, work nights, are known as hard and flexible workers and there is no displacement;]] [[Whereas, nevertheless, the image of this group of migrant workers is poor;]] [[Whereas we need the migrant workers to make a number of important sectors run smoothly;]] [[Whereas we will continue to need these migrant workers in the coming years and will not change this rapidly;]] [[Whereas it is therefore important, as in the case of expats, to create a favourable locational environment, including housing and image, so that these people will want to continue to come here;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure in its communication that the image of Eastern European migrants is improved and to consider what can be done about this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u280	And now a motion on pay inequality between men and women. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is still inequality in income between men and women;]] [[Whereas this difference is about €300,000 throughout a career;]] [[Whereas equality between men and women should not be a matter of mere words, but above all of deeds;]] [[calls on the Secretary of State to address the gender pay gap to entrepreneurs and business organisations with a view to reducing them as much as possible;]] [[invites the Secretary of State to report to the Chamber within four months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u281	The final motion is about our friend Wilders. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the core of the PVV's ideas is therefore bad for the Dutch economy, and the Dutch economy costs jobs and growth;]] [[calls on the Government to have a social cost-benefit analysis carried out on the Wilders effect, in order to better reflect its economic impact,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u282	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to spend hundreds of billions of euros on taxpayers' money in order to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement;]] [[Considering that the massive operation that the Netherlands must undertake to meet the CO reduction targets set in this case in the most optimistic scenario, 0,00007 ̊C reduces warming;]] [[whereas the costs of this planned policy are therefore in no way proportionate to the benefits;]] [[calls on the Government to terminate the Paris Agreement immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u283	I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the so-called energy transition of the Rutte cabinet is not in Dutch interest;]] [[calls on the government to fully review the planned climate policy and to allow the hundreds of billions saved to benefit matters that are in Dutch interest, including, for example:]] [[reducing one's own risk in care;]] [[increasing the duty-free foot;]] [[reducing the workload of the police;]] [[increasing the salary of police officers;]] [[reducing the workload for people in care;]] [[increasing expenditure on education;]] [[the re-introducing of the basic student grant;]] [[increasing defence expenditure and improving the working conditions of our military;]] [[the creation of a high-speed Internet network in all parts of the country;]] [[the development of a thorium-melted salt reactor,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XII-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u284	The fun thing is: if we don't spend that thousand billion on that absurd climate transition, on that voodooism, on that alchemy that we're hanging here, we're gonna have plenty left for a lot of other wonderful things. Mr. Chairman. My third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to this debate, an overwhelming majority of the Chamber attaches great importance to "sustainability";]] [[Considering that the government is about to sign the Marrakesh Immigration Pact, which threatens to further lose control of our immigration policy;]] [[noting that this treaty threatens to undermine our sovereignty and further undermines our ability to conduct our own national immigration policy;]] [[noting that it is impossible to pursue a sustainable immigration policy without control over its own borders;]] [[calls on the Government, following the example of the United States, Hungary, Austria, Poland, Croatia, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Israel, to declare not to sign the Marrakesh Immigration Pact,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIII-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u285	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u286	Thank you very much for your input. That brings us to the end of the second term of office. The directors have indicated that they wish for a seven-minute suspension. That means I'm gonna suspend until 6:10 p.m. They'll even get a minute's worth of presents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u287	I'm reopening this meeting. We had a wide-ranging debate this afternoon, a good exchange of views, various aspects of the budget in question and on that subject. The following is agreed with the rulers. They both have a single question to answer first. If that is what you want and your question may still be interrupted. Then, following the answer to the questions, the motions are appreciated. There will be no more interruptions. That's an appreciation, and we'll know where we stand. We do that because we really need to keep an eye on the time, because there are still a few VAOs planned and they need to be completed in time. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u288	Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the rules of the game. The fact that there are no interruptions is none of my business, but it is the Members who may or may not be happy with them. I understand from you that I am not supposed to explain the appreciation either, which is very unsatisfactory for both parties. But do you hold on to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u289	If you can do it with a single word, that's fine. But the important thing is that we keep up the momentum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u290	If everyone's okay with that, I'd be happy to. The slightest expression I have before that is "uncourteous."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u291	I understand very well that there is time pressure, but in some cases it is a bit clumsy if there is no way to say anything, if only in the event that the Minister suggests to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u292	That's obvious. It may also well be that the suggestion of taking over is made. Then you're gonna need a little interaction. That is natural, of course, but we are trying to handle it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u293	We won't take advantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u294	Once and for all, I understand what the Minister is saying, but do it on one case, which you say is difficult. But not every time...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u295	I'll keep a buddy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u296	I'm not asking the Minister to keep a pal, I'm asking his colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u297	I suggest we get started. I think it's gonna be okay and it's gonna be in trusted hands with the rulers. I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u298	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the questions that remain and which have been asked in the second term. And there's another amendment. There is also a question from Mr Verhoeven about the safety of devices from China, but there is also a motion on this. I'll focus on the motion. Mrs Mulder asks what is the state of play of the Drenthe Monden and Oostermoer area fund. This is now being started and is intended for all kinds of super-statutory measures, as she knows. The initiators of the wind farm and the province are depositing money in the area. This can be used, for example, for solar panels, insulation measures for homes, public LED lighting and so on. It is certainly the intention to have the Regional Fund operational at the time when the wind farm has been built. That's at the end of 2020. At that time, there will be a fund for these purposes. I promised Mr Sienot that I would look, if we assume that the safest technology is necessary, or that it should be legal. Turns out it's totally in line with what he was thinking. So we will include that in the mining regulations. Mr Sienot spoke about giving priority to raw material reuse over CCS. This is provided that the overall cost-effectiveness is the best. In three of the four scenarios of the IPCC there is CCS. CCU is the logical follow-up. Wherever that improves overall cost-effectiveness, we will also do so. Mrs Beckerman has asked what is really against making the report that belongs to the new NPR public. That's been tested in the region. There's nothing against that, so I'll make that public with a technical appreciation. Mr Van der Lee asked whether the CPB could calculate the damage caused by climate change. That would be the PBL. PBL's up to him. I think there's enough global evidence to show that if you don't do something, it's gonna be very expensive. I really don't want to bother them with that right now. The PBL is busy enough with us. So I don't want to do that right now. If it does fit in with the work schedule at a later date, I have nothing against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u299	That is why I was talking about the CPB and not the PBL. The CPB also makes a simple assessment of certain major developments and their potential impact on the GNP. I do not see why they cannot pass on a number of possible risks from climate change for the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u300	The contact person of EZK with these organizations says that it definitely belongs to PBL. I'm gonna stick to that for a while. His further question was how could the instrument "contracts for difference" be used independently of the law. The new law does not lay down the subsidy system but allows the choice to be made between several things laid down in the grant decision. So there are different options for it, because it doesn't have to be in the law. He also asked about the doubler. I think it's a nice idea and it's actually coming from myself. But it's a pretty mean idea and I'm not going to apply any mean ideas to the Empire. In this case I don't either, but it's creative to confront me with this. If houses are unsafe or are ever unsafe, they must always be placed on that list. Period! That is the starting point and I have agreed with the region on this. I honestly do not have an answer to Mr Moorlag's question about sufficient foundation and... I thought it was so broad, I didn't get a good answer in the conversation with my people. I think he should ask his question more precisely. I'll get you an exact answer. My request would be whether he would like to do so in writing, because then I can go into it thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u301	I note Mr Moorlag's nodding in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u302	There was another question from Mrs Mulder about small mills, but this has now been discussed in section No. 28 filed a motion. That is why I am going to deal with the motions. Mrs Yesilgöz asked for further information for that debate. I'm gonna do my best to do that. I'll see what's up. Mrs Beckerman's amendment to item No. 15 I do not recommend for reason that the starting point is not correct. There's no one who gets 400 million more. You're gonna add 400 million to the oil? No, the oils are gonna make less and less money from this. It's just meant not to get the NAM in the red numbers as a result. Moreover, it is not the oils but the NAM and that means something quite different, as we all know. I would advise against the amendment not only for that reason, but also because otherwise I find it unfeasible to push down the gas. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u303	...the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u304	...the motions. I find one motion unclear, but I'm going to do it all the way. That's the motion in part No. 24 by Mr Van der Lee. I hope it will be clarified further. The motion in part No. I have to advise 16 of Mr Kops and he knows why. The motion in part No. 17 I must advise against and the motion in part No. 18, I must also advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u305	I'm sorry. Excuse me. Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u306	I would like to put a question before the Minister begins the motions on the statement by Mr Nijpels, the chairman of the Climate Change Council. As I said, he said: "It is clear that windmills will be added at sea and on land. If you are against windmills, you have no business at the climate tables." I would like to ask the Minister what that is all about. If you're not a fan of windmills, then you can't even say your piece. If you're not a fan of that whole sustainability madness, then you can't talk. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u307	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u308	The people who talk about the spatial integration of windmills are not at that table at all. That's what happens when you fit in. I have already explained that it is precisely the intention to talk about this much more intensively and at a much earlier stage with residents and stakeholders. That has nothing to do with sitting at that table. There is a democratic decision by this government and this parliament to make a government agreement in which the installation of wind turbines is irrevocable. No one individually has a veto on this, but when it comes to integration, as many people as possible are invited to discuss it wisely at the earliest possible stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u309	A brief follow-up question from Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u310	What Mr Nijpels is doing is just sweeping the floor with critics of windmills. And let us not forget that these are ordinary citizens who oppose the arrival of windmills. Those people aren't waiting for windmills in their backyard. So what Mr Nijpels has said here is simply an insult to all those citizens with a different opinion, an opinion that does not correspond to the sense of sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u311	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u312	The proposal for the main points of the climate agreement talks about acceptance. What's that worth the practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u313	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u314	I have just responded to this and said what I think Mr de Nijpels might have meant, and that is in a very different area. I'm trying to hurry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u315	Yes, very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u316	That was my answer to the question. I didn't guess the first three motions, and the petitioner knows why.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u317	They've been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u318	Then I come to the motion on part No. 22. The interim missing numbers will be filled in by the Secretary of State. The motion in part No. 22 by Mrs Yeşilgöz I give judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u319	No. 22: Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u320	I'm asking her for the motion in part No. 23, because this should be part of the overall approach to building gas-free and that is not yet there. So I'm gonna give her some consideration, or I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion, but I'm gonna leave that to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u321	A response from Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u322	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not understand why that part should be of gas-free construction when it comes to existing homes of people who do not want to wait until it gets into their neighborhood, who simply want to get rid of the gas and who then have to deal with hundreds of euros in closing costs for their gas connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u323	Because the Global Approach also includes the conversion of existing neighbourhoods. Maybe the phrase isn't quite right. We are now thinking about how to change these areas and the early switches are included, so we have to wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u324	Mrs Yeşilgöz, you are still considering whether or not to stop. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u325	With the motion in part No. I'll wait another 24 minutes, but I'm looking at the benches with a hard look.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u326	And the hard look comes from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u327	I look closely at whom I like, but not at Mr Van der Lee. On the motion on LED lighting I come all the way back to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u328	Okay. We'll put it on the bottom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u329	The motion in part No. 25 by Mr Van der Lee I give judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u330	No. 25: Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u331	The motion in part No. 26 I advise, not saying that this should never be. If this appears to be part of the cost-effective options, it will be included in the new list. But now I'm betraying her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u332	No. 26: Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u333	Then the motion to part No. 27 on the abolition of the double taxation of energy, in order to avoid it. I'll pass judgment on that, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u334	No. 27: Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u335	Then the motion to part No. 28. I would like to see whether the wind power would not be achieved by not replacing small mills. But the motion in this way really has to be discouraged, because this is going to cost a lot more money and then Mr Kops gets angry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u336	No. 28: Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u337	Then the motion to part No. 32.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u338	Wait a minute. There is a question from Mrs Mulder. But this is not your motion, Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u339	No, but this is the point the Minister just said he would come back to my question even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u340	That's right. There was a question from Mrs Mulder, and at the time of the motion you would come back to the small windmills.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u341	That is where the portee would be, on the basis of this motion, that I do not think we should now decide to grant a much higher subsidy to the wind because of the small mills, but that we should ask ourselves whether it could actually be that the replacement of small mills does not take place as a result of this effect. That's what I want to investigate. But for the time being, I am absolutely not convinced that we should go this way, because that is going to cost a lot more money. So I want to see if there is a phenomenon here at all that smaller mills disappear from the landscape and are not replaced, so we do not get our windpower. That is the phenomenon that concerns us here. I would like to look at this in more detail, but I am not in favour of adjusting the subsidies specifically for small mills, because we will no longer be able to meet our budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u342	This was an answer to a question, so there is room for a follow-up question. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u343	Thank you, Mr President. When can we expect that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u344	I just have to pick that up from the industry and from the people involved in the implementation, so I can't predict that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u345	May I suggest that this be returned to us before the debate we are having in November?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u346	I saw that on the agenda for the end of November. That seems to me very quickly, if I may be honest. We are not reasonably going to do that, and then I will make Mrs Mulder happy with a dead sparrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u347	Perhaps the Minister will be able to indicate for that debate or in that debate when he expects this to be linked back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u348	Yeah, at what point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u349	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u350	Clear, then it's a deal. Mr Van der Lee also wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u351	Yes, chairman, in conjunction with the verdict on the motion. Because the Minister gives a summary of the operative part that just doesn't add up. It does not say that it should be promoted financially, but it asks to investigate how smaller windmills can be stimulated, whether or not via the SDE+ scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u352	Does that lead to a review of the opinion? They're asking for an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u353	Yes, strictly speaking that is true, but the question is whether small windmills should be stimulated. The idea would be that if you are going to stimulate, you want to work on the most cost-effective option. This is only about how, when the question is: or.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u354	So the verdict remains: dissuade. We're getting to the motion in part No. 29.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u355	I'm coming up on The Drentse Monden. I think that Mrs Mulder's wording in the motion on item No. Thirty-two wise. I'm giving her judgment, Chamber, in line with the debate just now. The motion in part No. Mrs Mulder's 33th opinion on green steel is also given to the Chamber. At the motion in part No. 34 I am judging Chamber for the text that is here, and I would like to say that I am hesitant about always new points of contact, but we do want to address the problem. So in that sense, I give Chamber's judgment to the motion in part No. 34. The motion in part No. 35 is about cross-compliance. She also gets judgment room. The motion in part No. 36 by Mrs Beckerman, in line with my appreciation of the amendment. On the subject of the motion in part No. 37 has also been the subject of an earlier debate. That is a motion which I would advise against on the basis of the argument I have made there. At the motion in part No. I would advise Mrs Beckerman to keep it, in line with Mr Moorlag's call. Now I have to discourage the motion, but who knows, this might turn out to be the solution. Something's gonna come out later. The fact that we have to do something and that there can be problems is obvious. So I would like to suggest to Mrs Beckerman that we hold the motion and then come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u356	On the motion in part No. 38 says the Minister: Hold on, or else dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u357	The wording of the motion in part No. I think 40 is sensible and nuanced. Judgment Room. The same applies to the motion in part No. 41, although this must of course be the most efficient solution. But Mrs Yeşilgöz has already asked Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u358	The motion in part No. 41 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u359	The motion in part No. 42 gets judgment, Room. The motion in part No. I now come to Mr Verhoeven's question. At the motion in part No. Forty-five I have a brief explanation to make. I agree with Mr Moorlag that this should be discussed at the tables, but not at one table. Because if we disconnect the discussion table over support from the other tables, there will be no crack at all, then it will become a kind of floating island. By the way, a floating island is French dessert. Look, we're choking on the tables. The SCP is involved and works at all tables through that climate council. The support should really be part of every table. That's really my conviction. Through that climate council and through all these affiliated organisations, we ensure that that expertise comes to those tables. So I have to discourage this motion in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u360	That's about the motion in part No. 45?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u361	That's about the motion in part No. 45. In this form, I betray her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u362	Mr Moorlag, the motion is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u363	Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u364	Would he like to send a letter to the Chamber explaining how he simply wants to ensure this? If he promises to do that, I'm just willing to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u365	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u366	That's a deal. There will be a letter and the motion will be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u367	Then the motion to part No. 46.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u368	"Asks the government to ensure responsibilities (...)." The motion seems to be asking for additional resources, and we don't know that yet. I would also like to ask for the motion to be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u369	Or what?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u370	Otherwise... That would be silly, because I would have to discourage the motion, but I would rather not, because it is a sensible question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u371	The motion in part No. 46: arrest or dissuade?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u372	I cannot yet promise you that this will require additional resources or powers at all. "Asks the government to ensure responsibilities, powers and means..." What is the deposit of funds other than payment? I don't know. Not to be silly. There are all governments watching and thinking 'what would Mr Moorlag mean by that?' I would like to suggest to Mr Moorlag that we hold on to his motion until we know how we are doing the conditions with this regional strategy. Mrs Mulder asked me about that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u373	I think the motion is clear. I am not asking for additional resources, but I am asking for the necessary resources. It doesn't say "needed." The co-governments should simply be fully capable of the Regional Energy Strategy...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u374	We're not gonna have the discussion right now. The question is, do you hold the motion or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u375	No, Mr. Chairman, I'm not holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u376	Then the verdict is: dissuade. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 47.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u377	I'm sorry to hear that. Then we'll get to the motion in part No. 47. It's about the size of the wind farm. I gave a positive opinion on the motion on item No. 32, but use influence and authority? I have already discussed this in detail in the debate, which is why I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u378	The motion in part No. 47 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u379	The motion in part No. Mrs Akerboom's 52 does not ask for an opinion from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u380	The motion in part No. 52 is...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u381	It doesn't call the government to anything, so I'm not gonna appreciate it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u382	Clear. Then the motion to part No. 53.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u383	I'm gonna have to dissuade him, like the motion in part No. 54
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u384	The motions on pieces No. 53 and 54: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u385	The subject of the motion in part No. 55 has come through the debate in detail. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. Public finances, a stress test? As far as I am concerned, the stress test for public finances is the General Financial Review. This motion I must advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u386	What motion is that? The motion in part No. 56.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u387	The motion in part No. 56. Then the motion comes to part No. 57. We've talked about this a lot. I'm still dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u388	The motion in part No. 57 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u389	The motion in part No. 58 is a wonderful one. There are things in it that you can all support, albeit that the goals have to do with the climate agreement and have no relationship with the Rhineland model. That's why I have to discourage the motion. The Netherlands might think that we need a new Rhineland model to meet our climate targets, and that is not the case. I dissuade the motion for that reason. But the findings... The second observation raises questions. Okay, I'm not gonna talk about it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u390	The motion in part No. 58 in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u391	"Says that current economic growth does not go hand in hand with (...)." That is not up to me, that is an opinion of the Chamber itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u392	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u393	The motion in part No. 60, I'll have to dissuade you. That was also the case in the debate. The motion in part No. 62 I give judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u394	The motion in part No. 62: Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u395	The motion in part No. 63 I can also give judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u396	The motion in part No. 63: Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u397	The motion in part No. I do not think Mr Baudet's 67 on the termination of the Paris Agreement is in line with the coalition agreement, which I really see as my mission, so I would advise against it. The motion in part No. 68 I advise by the same reasoning. At the motion in part No. I should like to suggest to Mr Baudet that the motion be submitted to another debate. Because I have nothing to say about the Marrakech Convention on Immigration. That's what the colleagues from the Justice and Security Department are about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u398	The motion in part No. 68: dissuade. The motion in part No. 69: Strange to the order of the sitting. That is actually the verdict on this last motion. So: submitting elsewhere is the advice. At least here it's being dissuaded, that's what I understand. Then there is the motion on part No. 24.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u399	Yeah, then there's the motion in part No. 24. I have to make a small reservation about this. I welcomed this initiative as a low-hanging fruit. I am also prepared to accept this and leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. But I would like to say that I want to base this on the Environmental Management Act and the five-year payback period in it. I hope that I can take this up in such a way that the word 'only' is applied to LED lighting which actually has that payback time. There may be applications where that is not the case. I don't know if there's a lot of them. I doubt that, in fact. If I may interpret it that way, I will give it implementation by updating those recognised measures. But then there's a five-year payback. If I may interpret it that way, I shall leave it to the Chamber to judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u400	Subject to this exegesis. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u401	I can live with that interpretation of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u402	Clear. Then the motion gets to part No. 24 Judgment Room. Thanks for the treatment and for the clarity. It was a little quick. The amendment in part No. 15 has received the judicium "dissuade." Now the Secretary of State has the floor. She too has a few questions to answer and then deals with the motions in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u403	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two more questions to answer. And I just forgot to say something about an amendment. The PVV had questions about the credit boys. The question was whether it would not be a good idea to turn on the IMEI blocking, so to speak. In 2013 and 2014, the ministries of EZ and VenJ explored blocking stolen phones. It also looked at IMEI blocking by the telecom providers, which means that the device will no longer have access to the network, and at the so-called kill switch, i.e. the remote blocking of the device itself by the user, a function already present on the device. The conclusion was that the kill switch is more effective than the IMEI blocking. The Chamber was informed of this at the time. D66 asked me another question about the refreshment of the top teams in the top sectors, to say the least. It is good to say here that, following the renewed innovation and top sectors policy, the next period will also look at the mandate and staffing of the top teams, in order to bring about renewal, participation of innovative SMEs and sustainability where necessary. I forgot to mention that the coverage of Mr Verhoeven's amendment will be at the expense of the instruments that will be paid for, for example, the SMEB, the MIT and Eurostars, and the TO2 institutions. It has to come from the length or width. I now come to the judgments on the motions. I will do so as briefly as possible. And if it doesn't need an explanation, I'll leave it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u404	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u405	The motion in part No. 19 of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats: Court of Justice. The motion in part No. 20 of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats: Court of Justice. I would also like to point out that, in the context of the tailor-made approach, we are already looking at six bottlenecks in this area, such as regulatory pressure in the context of employership, re-integration obligations and the Working Conditions Act. I do not think that systematic measurement or inventory of administrative burdens is necessary. Moreover, the past shows that such a systematic inventory is time-consuming and expensive. But if, for example, by means of a life event approach, we can identify very practical bottlenecks in employment and make proposals to achieve substantial simplifications, I think this is a very nice motion. Then I have the motion from the VVD Group on item No. 21 on simplification of collateral law. It's a complicated subject. Appreciating and establishing collateral is customization. There is also a Code of Conduct for Small Business Financing, on the basis of which the entrepreneur can make a request to reduce the collateral position. I am prepared to discuss this issue with banks and alternative financiers. I therefore ask Mr Wörsdörfer to continue this motion, so that I can give an opinion on the progress of the SME Action Plan that I am sending to the Chamber for the summer of 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u406	The question to Mr Wörsdörfer is whether the motion in part No. 21 may be detained.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u407	I understand that reasoning, so we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u408	At the request of Mr Wörsdörfer, I propose his motion (35000-XIII, No. 21). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u409	The Amhaouch/Verhoeven motion in part No. 29 I give my opinion to the Chamber, with a reference to the SME Action Plan, to which words are devoted. The Amhaouch c.s. motion in piece No. 30 I'm also judging Room. I refer to the European Commission's proposal for a regulation on a new market test for products, which includes that a person is responsible for conformity if this producer sells directly to end-users in the EU. My commitment is to make this person also responsible for the conformity of the product, not just information about it, with my focus on consumer products that give rise to problems in practice. The Amhaouch c.s. motion in piece No. 31 I'm judging Chamber. I have already indicated, at three times, that these organisations should stand on their own feet after all the support of EZK. VSK is currently discussing funding with different parties. The outcome is an indication of the viability of credit unions in the financing market. I would like to point out that it would be very nice if there were one interbranch organisation that would also make this form of financing viable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u410	The motions in part No. 29, 30 and 31 are judgment room. And the motion in part No. 39?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u411	The Alkaya motion in part No. 39 I don't recommend. Mr. Alkaya just quoted, it seemed, but I took page 23 of the previous Wbso evaluation. This shows that for large companies more than average additional R&D is achieved through Wbso support. I would also like to point out that small and medium-sized enterprises currently receive 64% of Wbso, compared with 43% of their own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u412	The motion in part No. 39 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u413	Yes. I see a question, Mr President, but you deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u414	I'm sorry, I didn't see that. Excuse me. Mr. Alkaya, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u415	A brief question to the Secretary of State. Has she also taken note of page 19 that I submitted? It was precisely the additionality of the further increase in the second disc, not the impact it has on large companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u416	This was a discussion, but the Secretary of State may respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u417	In particular, I took note of page 23. Contrary to what Mr Alkaya said, additional R&D is achieved for large parties, more than average, through the Wbso support. Contrary to what Mr Alkaya says, 64% of Wbso is taken up by SMEs. As I said in the first term: 2,100 out of 2,400 or 2,500 companies are small and medium-sized enterprises, so I simply do not agree with Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u418	Then there is the Verhoeven/Van der Lee motion to item No. 44.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u419	The motion in part No. 44: Judgment Room. Good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u420	Then there is the Bruins motion in part No. 50.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u421	This motion gets judgment Chamber, see the argument earlier in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u422	Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u423	The Bruins/Verhoeven motion in part No. 51 calls on the government to use part of the one-off under-exhaustment of the Wbso to increase the Wbso rate in the second disk from 14% to 16%. Judgment Room. I shall now come to the motion for a resolution (Doc. 61. This one's a little complicated. This motion calls for the prohibition of forced shop opening by ensuring that shopkeepers have the freedom to keep their shop closed on Sundays regardless of their motive, both in the case of a new contract and in the case of an extension. This is a motion that asks me to stop forced shop opening by ensuring that shopkeepers have the freedom to keep their shop closed on Sundays regardless of their motive, both in a new contract and in an extension. This goes beyond the legislative proposal currently under consultation. In practice, I believe that this means that rental contracts can only be included when you are allowed to open and that no more agreements can be made about opening hours. Because then you should; then it becomes a kind of null and void clause. I think this is a huge violation of contract freedom. At present 96% have no enforceable opening hours in contracts. And that's why I'm dissuading this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u424	It is about the Stoffer/Verhoeven motion in part No. 61. Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u425	Then I have three motions from Mr Öztürk. The first motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u426	That's the motion in part No. 64.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u427	I'm back on the same path as you, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. Sixty-four, I'm not sure. The explanation for this is contained in the written replies received by the Chamber yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u428	The motion in part No. 64 has therefore been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u429	In the written answers there is also a response to the motion on item No. 65, but I just heard a new judgment, namely: strange to the order of the sitting. This motion really belongs to the Minister of OCW. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u430	Dissuade. Then the motion to part No. 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u431	Also on the motion in part No. The written reply contains a comprehensive explanation. This shows why the request made in this motion cannot actually be made to the CBS. I also advise against this motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u432	Thank you very much for the appreciation and answer of the questions. Then there is a moment for the Minister to return to the Van der Lee motion in part No. 26. But first of all, a question from Mr Öztürk. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u433	The motion in part No. 65 stands up for the women, for matching their salary with that of the men. This is an appeal from the Secretary of State to the entrepreneurs. So I can't imagine another minister or secretary of state having to do that. You're working on entrepreneurs, and that's why I tabled this motion here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u434	Clear. The Secretary of State still?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u435	And yet she belongs to the discussion of the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science. That minister is responsible for that. I speak to entrepreneurs on all kinds of other subjects that I do not initially deal with either. Let's keep it a little clean. So that's why I'm deceiving this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u436	The Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy would like to return to the motion in part No. 26 related to the appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u437	Mr. Chairman. In the hurry I have the motion in part no. 26 read carelessly. I want the motion in part no. 26 of Mr Van der Lee's Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u438	The motion in part No. 26: Judgement Chamber instead of dissuade. Okay, thank you! Then I would like to thank the rulers for answering the questions. I would like to thank you all for your input. I would also like to thank the official support and the public who are still largely present, but probably behind the scenes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-12.u439	The votes on these motions will take place next week.
