ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-10.u1	I see the counter-terrorism team is present. So we can now move on to the VAO on counter-terrorism. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security. I give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The results of the general consultation left enough room for us to bring jihadbrides back to the Netherlands, even though the news was that the minister was going to stop them. The three criteria mentioned by the Minister are, of course, subject to change. The criteria are the security of the person himself, the treaties and the diplomacy and also the security in the area where the person is present who should be able to come back to the Netherlands. The criteria themselves are not subject to change, but, for example, security in an area. That area can be safe again because of the many efforts that are being made and then someone should be able to come back to the Netherlands. Then I wonder: do I hear Mr. Grapperhaus from before he became minister and wanted that grace and in dialogue and bringing those people back, or did I hear the minister who wanted to pursue the cabinet policy, as he stated after the cabinet took office? I'm afraid I heard the first version after all. I have a motion, Mr. Chairman. Because even though women only bake two pancakes for someone who acts on behalf of ISIS and does the most horrible things, they are still wrong. And that's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the three criteria used by the Minister for the return of jihad brides to IS territory leave room for future return;]] [[Whereas anyone who has travelled to IS territory and does not fight against IS or other Islamic terrorist organisations never belongs in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that these, both male and female, travellers to the IS area, as well as their children, can never again set foot on Dutch soil,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-442]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Madam President. During the AO we indeed talked about the Dutch children who are trapped in former IS area. According to the minister, the parents of these children can report to an embassy and then they can go on that route to the Netherlands. And if they're trapped in captivity, it's too bad, but the Netherlands won't do anything. Then the children will remain in captivity with their parents, to the great frustration of the Syrian democratic forces who want to get rid of these Dutch. They don't think it's their responsibility either. Mr. Chairman. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this policy is not only bad for those children, but also for the safety of the Netherlands. We want people to be investigated, prosecuted and possibly convicted. The policy of the cabinet has two major disadvantages. Firstly, it is quite possible that the Kurds at some point are tired of looking away at us and secretly releasing the people. They will report to the embassy: go to the Netherlands. In the meantime, however, we do miss all the information about them through the Kurds, who could have contributed to their persecution. Finally, these Dutch children become 18 years old one day. They are then free to travel to the Netherlands. And what does the Minister think? Will they be more or less dangerous than they are today? Mr. Chairman. We also discussed the need to strengthen the Dutch rule of law. After all, we want to protect them from terrorism. As part of that, I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas debate centres such as De Balie in Amsterdam are often themselves responsible for the security of their meetings and are responsible for the security of high-profile opinion-formers;]] [[Whereas the free public debate should be prevented from being hampered by security issues and the costs involved;]] [[calls on the Government to identify, together with (representatives of) discussion centres, the extent to which the free public debate is hampered by the increasing need to provide for meeting security, the measures that can be taken to ensure the free public debate and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-443]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-10.u4	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr President, thank you. First of all, Mr De Graaf's motion. I'm not gonna recommend that motion. I have exchanged enough with your Chamber during the AO, but also on other occasions, that and why the Dutch government does not provide assistance to travellers to leave unsafe areas in Syria and Iraq. Anyone who comes forward in person, as Mr De Graaf himself pointed out, at a Dutch diplomatic representation, may ask for assistance. The follow-up approach of the Dutch government is determined individually. It may be criminal, intelligence or administrative in nature. Returning to the Netherlands under the guidance of the KMar is one of the possibilities. I would like to stress that children are primarily seen as victims in these situations. If, by the way, the D.A. has issued an international alert, then the country where the person is found will be requested to surrender or surrender within the rules of international law. And as said, I advise against the motion. Then there is Mrs Buitenweg's motion. Maybe it is good to stress it again here, but I would like to repeat a few things I said at the AO. Freedom of expression is a great asset and must be protected at all times. Debate centres have an important role to play in this and everyone in the Netherlands has a role to play in further protecting that freedom, both society and the government. If debate centres are restricted in their role because speakers and/or visitors are threatened or might be threatened, they may ask for security measures. The starting point is and remains that individuals and organisations are primarily responsible themselves and, again, if one cannot do so on its own, then the government can take additional measures. In doing so, the nature and severity of the threat are decisive for the decision to take security measures. Now I come to an important point: these security measures for debate centres are taken by the local authorities and are really strongly coloured by the local assessment. If there are grounds for doing so, the NCTV, the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security, can advise additional measures. As I explained in more detail at the time and now briefly, Madam President, the French speaker in De Balie advised the NCTV on this too. In the end, security measures have been taken in good consultation with the local authority. I am not aware of signs that debate centres are being obstructed in their freedom and, in particular, that they would impose self-censorship on themselves. I have indicated in the AA that I will ask my colleague from OCW to explore this further. Taking all this together, Mrs Buitenweg's motion is not necessary. It would also go against the decisions that are well-targeted on a case-by-case basis on how local authority should be handled, and I therefore advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-10.u6	It went very well, Madam President. The minister said his colleague is going to take stock of the extent to which there is a problem. That's how I understood the Minister, but that's in my motion. It says'requests the government' and then it is not this minister but a colleague who is going to take stock of the extent to which the free public debate is being hindered, unlike the minister may know. But he's willing to make an inventory. Then he says: the motion is therefore not necessary. For a moment, I thought we were moving towards "absolutely because support for policy" and then it was not recommended. I couldn't follow that last path. Would the Minister perhaps declare it superfluous because it is support for his policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-10.u7	The motion consists of a number of parts, I'll determine if I dissect her. One component is to identify the extent to which the free public debate is hampered. I have just said that I asked my colleague at OCW to explore whether it is really true that discussion centres are being obstructed in their freedom. That goes a little bit less than what is being asked here. But then it comes: "What steps can be taken to ensure the free public debate and to inform the Chamber about this". I have expressed some general principles about the great good of freedom of expression. This culminated in the statement that local authority should ultimately take responsibility and be able to assess on a case-by-case basis what security measures are necessary. I'd like to leave it at that. So I'm gonna stick to the shackle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-10.u8	Finally, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-10.u9	Then I guess I have a solution. If I remove that part of the sentence, 'what measures can be taken to ensure the free public debate', I think I will respond to the Minister's concerns. In any case, I will keep to the agreement that it is agreed that we should identify and inform the Chamber together with representatives of the debate centres. I think that is a very good compromise for this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-10.u10	I find it particularly pleasurable when compromises can arise. But I have indicated that I am asking my colleague from OCW to explore further whether discussion centres are being obstructed in their freedom and whether they should even impose self-censorship. If I can understand the motion in that way, I'll certainly leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-10.u11	Then I'll change the motion accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-10.u12	Well, then we have a compromise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-10.u13	And the French speaker in De Balie is called Zineb El Rhazoui. This is for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-10.u14	Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-10.u15	Then I thank everyone for this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-10.u16	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. The debate will then take place under the chairmanship of Mr Paul van Meenen. The debate is about the concern of confused people.
