ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the goodbye to Nine Kooiman. Before I start reading the farewell letter of Nine Kooiman, I would like to report that Lilian Marijnissen cannot be present. She slipped yesterday and has to recover from a nasty fall. But I'm sure she'll follow this session either through Debate Direct or through Politics 24. 'Dear President, dear Khadija, After almost eight years of being a popular representative with a lot of passion, I say goodbye to the House of Representatives today. This choice was difficult and difficult for me, but the conclusion remains that I find it difficult to find the balance between parliamentary membership and motherhood. I find that I cannot fill the post now as I would like it to be. You're a member of parliament 24 hours, 7 days a week. You can go on the streets, into the neighborhoods, on work visits, on research and finally represent the voice of many in the House of Representatives. That makes membership so beautiful, the contact with so many people. And if I can see and speak less to people, then it doesn't only make me like this job less, but then I also think I should make room for someone who can give that full 200% again. I enjoyed the prison staff that took action, which allowed us in the Chamber to marble the demolition plan 1.0 in the trash can." Real SP language! "Pleased by the police, who continued to fight against the cuts that led us in the Chamber at the time to get these cuts off the table. But also the fire department, the youth workers, workers in care, the many families I was allowed to visit and speak to. It was an honor to have that voice heard here. It was also an honor to be able to work with so many beautiful people. I like the enthusiasm and passion that I was allowed to see with colleagues, including colleagues from other parties. For example, with Gert-Jan Segers when it comes to our initiative law, which we have successfully defended together with the PvdA in dealing with trafficking in human beings here in the Chamber. But I'm also gonna miss the room staff. Like Farhat, who always smiled that my caffeine level was right; very important. Or Rowena, who at the restaurant made sure I didn't get an allergy attack again, and if I did go into the mist, security guard Sanjay could fix this again. And I wouldn't mention a lot of names I would have liked to mention. The Registry, cleaners, the police, the people in the stenography report and, of course, my group, the SP. It's been a pleasure working with you guys. As you know, I have no seat meat at all. So I'm sure you'll see me in a different position, but then full-time between the people, where I think I feel most at home, too. You're all well. Nine."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-5.u2	This resignation was notified to the President of the Central Voting Office and to the Minister for the Interior. I propose that this letter be adopted for notification. Dear Mrs. Kooiman, dear Nine. Yesterday I got a box of chocolates and a ticket from you. The chocolates are almost gone, I kept the ticket and it said: "Dear Chairman Khadija and Griffine in plenary, thank you for all these beautiful years, for all the support in difficult and fun times. You make the Chamber a great place to work. I'm gonna miss you guys, love Nine." Typical Nine. Everyone who talks about you calls the same word "love." You're known as one of the nicest MPs, collegial, laughterful and pleasant in association. But make no mistake: in debates you were sharp. You had a goal in mind, and you went for it, holding until you reached your goal, both at Justice and at VWS. You were very involved in the execution. In every debate you tried to bring in the sounds of people on the work floor: prison staff, police, youth care workers and so on. That's what you wrote in your letter. Not only were you concerned with abstract laws and regulations, but above all about how these laws work out in practice for the people in the workplace, what consequences the laws we deal with here have for those people. To know how things turned out in practice, you had one day and one night locked up in women's prison Nieuwersluis. You have experienced at close range what it is like when nothing is private anymore and you have no control over the situation around you. An uncomfortable, but especially very vulnerable feeling, you said yourself about that. You were always looking for cooperation. For example, in 2014, together with Gert-Jan Segers of the Christian Union and Marith Volp of the PvdA, you received an initiative bill on the criminalisation of the abuse of prostitutes by the Chamber. Recently, in November last year, together with Sharon Dijksma, who is behind you, and Corinne Ellemeet of GroenLinks, you have the initiative paper "Big Farma: not healthy!" It is a matter for the Council and the Commission to decide whether or not to take a decision on this matter. In the back of the room is Paul Ulenbelt, by the way. He always had to be around you today, too. He's in the President's Lodge. In addition to the cooperation in terms of content, there was also the collective coziness, not only in the Chamber, but especially during the work visits. In England you visited the British Parliament and several prisons. In the evening you ended up with Ard van der Steur in a men's club at the Pall Mall in London. Now I can imagine something with Ard van der Steur, but a little less with you. The visit to Morocco, which was marked by the fight against terrorism, was somewhat messy because of lost luggage at Casablanca airport and an almost missed flight back because some members were still negotiating the price of a tajine. Dear Nine. Your departure is hard, you say in your letter. But me, too, I have to tell you honestly. I'm very sorry you left the Chamber a year after the election. You won't be able to deal with your initiative proposal in the First Chamber anymore, and Sharon Dijksma and Corinne Ellemeet will have to defend the initiative paper without you. The evaluation of the Youth Act, which you probably put your teeth in, also leaves you to your successors. But I'm sure you'll keep a close eye on everything. I think so. Dear Nine. Today you make a clear choice. Parliamentary membership is hectic and never stops. Your phone is always on and you must always be available. In addition, you are at your best when, as you write in your letter, you go into the street and preferably go into the neighborhood. In an interview in SP-partijblad Tribune you also said: "I'm not one of those hats that just walks around in The Hague." Your work ethos will not be combined with your other position, or actually your other passion, namely the care for your son Moos. With you we say goodbye to a very involved, colorful and especially dear Member of Parliament. On behalf of the Chamber, I would like to thank you so much for your commitment over the last eight years. I wish you all the good things with your family and everything else that comes your way. Take care.
