ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the commemoration of the death of former Prime Minister Wim Kok. A warm welcome to his wife Rita, their daughter Carla and son Marcel in the President's Lodge. I would also like to welcome the Prime Minister, the MPs and the people in the public gallery. I'm asking everyone to stand up if possible. Ten days ago we received the intense sad news of Wim Kok's death. He was MP, Minister of Finance and finally Prime Minister of the two purple Cabinets. Over the past ten days Wim Kok has enjoyed the respect, authority and admiration of people at home and abroad. There were warm words, stirred reflections, striking typologies about who he was, what he did and what he stood for. Also the commemoration last Saturday at the Concertgebouw in Amsterdam was very impressive. However, it was not only the words "how rich and touching" that characterized man and statesman Wim Kok, but also the images that we have seen pass by. The most striking thing I find is a picture from 1998 of Wim Kok in Madurodam. We see Wim Kok as a giant rise above Amsterdam canal houses. Behind him is the Mint. Looks like he just crossed a bridge. He's moving carefully. The look is serious, focused. He does his best to maintain his balance and at the same time prevent him from crushing an unsuspecting passerby in Madurodam format with his decent shoe. He uses his big hands to maintain his balance. He's a little clumsy in his gray suit. This is how Wim Kok was in the world at true size. According to columnist Sheila Sitalsing "with hands so colossal that shaking hands with him was an exciting experience." Personally, I've always felt that way when I gave him a hand. It has to be recognizable not only for me, but for a lot of people. In his life, he must have shaken tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of hands. He stood as a servant of the public cause in the midst of society. Seriously and sober. That he is on the picture in Madurodam in front of the Munttoren, may be a coincidence, but it is absolutely indicative. The coins were in good hands with him. The experiences of his youth have played a role in this, as he himself put it. In his own words: "I am still raised in the atmosphere of: you cannot throw away food. So neither do we. From childhood it has been hammered into it: be economical." He was also profitable in the country's finances. He was the sober treasurer in the third Lubbers cabinet. For him, financial soundness and social justice went hand in hand. There was no other way to do that as a born and raised social democrat. Sometimes his austerity had a twist of dry humor. That's how he drank Cornwine from a pottery jar at night. Afternoon, water. But, as he once said with a smile: on Queen's Day it is Spa Reine and on May 1st Spa Red. Wim Kok was a man without the need to be liked and with a dislike of political games. It was like that when he was little. For example, a former classmate remembered: "Wim was a sweet boy. He didn't have any enemies. He never competed in the games that weren't supposed to happen. He didn't even fight in the schoolyard. In our children's eyes, he was a bit boring." In the political arena here in the plenary room, he also avoided the game. As a member of parliament, he once said about the functioning of the House of Representatives: "The individuality in the Chamber is very large, larger than elsewhere. There are no other companies where you are so explicitly judged on your functioning every four years. You have to stand out, you have to score, because if you don't, you're gonna go down in the gray midget and you're gonna break up when the election lists are drawn up. And that "must score" can wake up the worst in people. I hope I have remained a bit of a normal person, not been deformed." A message that hasn't lost anything on actuality. Wim Kok in the political arena wasn't about profiling or the cleverest playing of the game. Scoring urge was strange to him, and look how far this has taken him. He had no difficulty in venting his opinion loud and clear, but that was not the essence for him. In his own words: "Of course I have an opinion on many subjects, every hour of the day I am questioned about them and I give them. I think it's about how you deal with all these different opinions. That you do not stand firmly on your feet, but keep your own feelings and your own opinions trying to get closer together." He wanted to narrow down contradictions, get results. And to the depths of his being he was convinced that this could only be done by seeking consensus and compromise. By building bridges and encouraging parties to cross them together with him, as he does in the photo in Madurodam. If Wim Kok was éns, it was a liaison genius. That's how he got results. The result that we all support most is, of course, the creation of the purple cabinets. As Hans van Mierlo once said: "Without Wim Kok Purple had not existed. He was able to unite the political extremes." He managed that by always carefully maneuvering and leaving room for another. He wanted, just like in Madurodam, to prevent him from trampled on someone with his shoes. He himself described it in this way: "I naturally tend to listen to a lot of others. That seems to be annoying. A real leader must have putty in his ears." We should be grateful that Wim Kok never used putty. That he was constantly striving for a balanced approach, always and everywhere, and that he attached to the credibility and reliability of politics. He thought people should be able to rely on the government. That is why the intervention in the WAO was for him a scratch on his soul, a groove in the face. As his political career progressed, the grooves became more frequent and deeper. The deepest groove, on his face and also in his heart, arose from the dramatic events in Srebrenica. He continued to feel the pain of this ink black event, year after year. He felt responsible, and he took responsibility for it. But the overwhelming sorrow remained. Wim Kok was a sentimental man. He could be very worried. And sometimes he was a little short. At least that's what it looked like. At the end of his presidency in 2002, he explained exactly what was going on: "No, I'm not grumpy. I am a little concerned and more than that sometimes due to a threatening, increasing bias and intolerance." At the end of his life, this concern for the division and polarization in our country was unabated. For his opinion on the solution to this problem, I refer to his own words from 1997. For young people, he had a message that we could all benefit from in 2018, too: "I think the most important advice for young people is: be critical, but also responsible. Responsible for what we stand for together. Even if you're still so focused on your future, we'll make that future in the Netherlands and in Europe together. And don't look too fast the other way." Wim Kok. Working on balanced solutions to serious problems. Working on balance and bridging contradictions. Working on social justice without wanting to use putty and trample people. Wim Kok, the man of simple origin, became a statesman of stature, the prime minister of all Dutchmen, in Madurodam and far beyond. We commemorate him with great respect and deep gratitude for everything he has meant to us and our country. I wish his wife Rita, his children Carla and Marcel, his grandchildren and all other relatives much strength in bearing this enormous loss. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. The man we commemorate today, as Prime Minister, once said: "People sometimes say that you are very powerful in a place like this. That is true insofar as you have to make important decisions from your responsibility, of course, but the limitation is always full responsibility in public, in our democracy, in parliament." It draws Wim Kok as a thoroughbred democrat, as a sober realist and as the prime minister who once called himself a passerby. 'Cause then, he said, the image can only be easy afterwards. Of course, that's a great understatement. We are not commemorating a passer-by today, but a great statesman who has made his mark on our country in many roles. I believe that, in our parliamentary history, few of us have begun the prime ministership as well as he has. As a union man, Wim Kok was poked and beaten in the polder. He learned the political handicrafts as the leader of his party in this house. As Minister of Finance, he knew the government budget as his pocket. All this knowledge and experience, he gathered together in eight years of premiership. Eight years of hard work, taking responsibility and achieving results for the Netherlands. In the last week and a half many Wim Kok have praised for his wise and sunk judgment, for his ability to see the other's point of view, and you also just said it, President-in-Office of the Council, for his binding role. He was indeed the master of the compromise and the personification of the power of the Dutch consultation model. Whoever is above the parties has the most overview. Like no other, he knew how that worked: giving each party something, not pushing decisions and sharing successes. "It's better to win modestly, otherwise you'll get it back sometimes hard and unexpectedly," he said once. He always realized: we need each other in the Netherlands and in Europe, because that's where he operated. But Wim Kok was also a doer. "My greatest power lies not in vast vistas painting the long-term future," he once said with self-knowledge. He was the man who demonstrated and persevered when necessary, for example during the WAO crisis, on his way to the crown princely marriage and, of course, after the horrible murder of Pim Fortuyn. Afterwards he said about that moment: "For a moment it's chaos in your head, but when you carry responsibility, you know it can't end there." At that moment, the man who always wiggled everything and weighed in a split second could make the right decision. He drew his strength and security from a strong moral compass, which for a lifetime focused on social justice, decency and solidity. The basis for this has undoubtedly been laid in the family and the reconstruction period in which he grew up. The sides weren't exactly walked away, he remembered later. He called it a time of solidarity and what to talk about for each other, concepts that have always remained guiding for him. Mr. Chairman. Wim Kok spoke to everyone, young and old, the people in the factory and at the university, the inhabitants of the old neighborhoods and young Vinex families. What was his secret? I'm thinking on the one hand his enormous stature and natural authority. Dignity was in the man himself, said a close associate of his last week very striking. Wim Kok was appreciated and admired, also by world leaders such as Tony Blair, Bill Clinton, François Mitterrand and Nelson Mandela. At the same time, he was the man who was declared camper of the year in 1991 and who paid for lunch during the mission, replied: "Well, at long distances I take bread with me, along with a pack of milk and an apple." It's that combination of statesmanship and sober sobriety that attracted people to him and also gave him their trust. Madam President. When a journalist in 1981 asked him what he would do if he were Prime Minister, Wim Kok said: "That is an impossible question, I do not think I am fit for it." It happened very little that he was so wrong, because we know: no one was more suitable than he was. Today we commemorate a great statesman who has moved our country forward with a cool head and a warm heart. The Netherlands is grateful to him. I wish his wife, children and grandchildren and other relatives a great deal of strength at this difficult time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you. I would ask you to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you. I'll now suspend the meeting, so you can offer your condolences to the next of kin.
