ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u1	The next item is the budget for Kingdom relations. Of course, I would like to welcome the Secretary of State. There are several speakers. They themselves have indicated how much time they want. If they want to, I can warn them in advance, but they can also see on their own bells if they've run out of time. That's how we're gonna do it, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u2	I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr De Graaf. He speaks for the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The position on the Antilles that the PVV has been celebrating for many years, may be assumed as well known. Well, I'd like to leave it at that. No, that's a joke. In short, it comes down to this: Sint-Maarten, Curaçao and Aruba are besides the Netherlands the three independent countries in our Kingdom, and they have more rights within the Statute than the Netherlands. No, I have to put it differently: not within the Statute, but according to the UN Charter. They can decide to leave the Kingdom if necessary. We can't do that. The great sponsor of these islands for many years, we, the Netherlands, have no right to go on alone, and we find that unfair. It's like a football club that demands infinite money from a sponsor, but that sponsor can never refuse to pay and cannot break the contract. There is no question of reciprocity, one of the most important values under our Jewish-Christian tradition, our culture. It's a one-way street. Would the cabinet accept the situation of that football club with its sponsor as a sponsor? And if not, why is there acceptance by the cabinet of the unfair situation with the other three countries in our Kingdom? But apart from the answer to that, I ask the Secretary of State to stop cherishing Neerland's overseas most beloved problem and work on throwing out those other countries. See how we can do that at the UN. Mr. Chairman. At the PVV we love people who do their best to build their land, to build the Netherlands or to build Aruba. We also love people who live in the Netherlands and help build our country if we are allowed to choose those people ourselves. However, we do have a little brother dead to people who make a mess of it. And let the administration of St.Maarten, for example, be made up of people like this, with this culture, for example. There we see that mentality in the highest circles. On Curaçao ditto. Aruba? Well, that's where we see a new government that's really trying its hardest. We see that too. But after the change of government, one financial corpse fell out of the closet after another. This is how the problem is maintained. The biggest problem is, of course, corruption. That seems to be a rather insoluble problem. That is why I say again: from the Kingdom with it! Can the Secretary of State agree with this iron logic of the PVV? Mr. Chairman. With Bonaire, the largest special overseas municipality in the Netherlands, with which it naturally has a different status than the countries, the minister is working on a governance agreement. And I say "Minister," where I mean "State Secretary," but overestimate should never be a problem: underestimate is much worse. Can the Secretary of State, bearing in mind my request about Bonaire last year, provide a dominant role for the authority on Bonaire? He has good ideas about infrastructure as a basic condition for economic development and tourism. They need a boost. The authority can play a good role in that. He's got good plans, and we'd like to see a decisive role for him. The entire population benefits from this in the long term and even in the medium term, so that the population can quickly work to reduce the poverty that exists there. Is the Secretary of State prepared to give the authority this great role? I would like to see a commitment on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u4	Mr De Graaf talks about the plans of the authority. Now I have to dig very deep, I think, but what plans are those? Where are they described? Is this a formal piece? I have no idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u5	Well, they're in the Acts of last year. I mentioned them here last year. It is a matter of planning, with a sound financial regime and with a very solid foundation, to get the infrastructure into the role.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u6	I am very pleased that the plans of Bonaire's authority come to us through the Acts of the House of Representatives, but I do not think that is the intention. If the authority has plans, I'd assume he's got them on paper somewhere. But that seems a bit of a weird construction, because I think there's a collegial board on Bonaire. So this seems a little weird. So I would very much like to hear Mr De Graaf's explanation of the specific plans of the authorities themselves, and where I can find them without having to look into the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u7	Once again, I explained these plans here last year; they came through me, through my mouth, into the Acts. I understand that Mr Bosman wants these plans in an official document, but the Secretary of State is in consultation with Bonaire. He can consult with the island council and the authority itself even more, he is in agreement - to hear those plans from their mouths.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u8	A very short closing word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u9	This means that there are apparently no real plans, although Mr De Graaf refers to them. I find that worrying, because now we put someone on a pedestal or put someone in a position when we don't know if they want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u10	Okay, that observation is for Mr. Bosman. In any case, we believe that the ideas that lie ahead are good and deserve a chance. Then there's Saint-Eustatius. That is where the Netherlands took over power at the beginning of the year, in short. This has been done with the agreement of our PVV. The people on Statia or Saint Eustatius have previously indicated that they do not want to be part of our Kingdom at all. According to the Secretary of State, when is the island ready to take the step towards independence, so that the Netherlands is rid of this expensive hobby? Perhaps the Secretary of State can present a timeline for this. Finally, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to update the spending of the aid money on Sint-Maarten, which was promised a lot of money from the Netherlands after Hurricane Irma, with supervision of its use as a condition. We exchanged a lot of words about this in the Chamber. How's that going? What corrupt bumps does the Secretary of State encounter there? How many times have we run into these bumps over the past year, frustrating reconstruction, restoration and new building? How much delay has Saint Martin been caused by its own corruption? That's it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u11	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bosman, of the VVD, as I have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u12	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the Kingdom. For the defense of the Kingdom, we need people who are willing to defend it. In the bleachers is part of my old kite class, class 87-1-2 of the selection flight training from Eelde. This class, called the Ice Tigers, has shown this willingness and has worked for the safety of the Kingdom. That is why I would like to express my thanks to all those men and women of the armed forces who are working to make the world safer and to keep it safe, here in the Netherlands, in the Caribbean and throughout the world. Thank you for that. The foundation of the Kingdom of the Netherlands is the Statute, which should bind us and give us clarity about responsibility and control. That should be the case, but the VVD must conclude that the 1954 Statute is therefore 64 years old and is in fact in need of renewal. This statute is not of the 21st century. We notice this in the Netherlands, but we also notice this time and again in the Caribbean countries and islands. The statute cracks and squeaks. Because there is always discussion about who is responsible for what and who has control of what, I would like to ask the Secretary of State if an evaluation is possible. The most recent example is the debate on the treatment of refugees from Venezuela. As an autonomous country, Curaçao is responsible for the admission and expulsion of foreigners and is also responsible for the treatment of refugees. Several studies have shown that Curaçao is not doing this carefully. Several institutes then point directly to the Netherlands, with the announcement that the Netherlands does not assume its responsibility and should intervene. In fact, there are even blames on the VVD, as if we as a party were banning aid. That puts a bit of party politics into the discussion. If one simply knew the facts and the Statute, one would know that only the line of the VVD is clear and that that is the most pure line in relation to the responsibilities invested in the Statute. The special thing is that there is no relationship of authority between the countries within the Statute. If, therefore, these institutions believe that there is, they must state immediately that the Statute needs to be amended, but I do not hear that. That makes it very cheap to criticize the Netherlands. Because if we were to intervene, how would these people think we would do that? A clue? Or are we just sending the army to take control? The latter would be very colonial, because within the Kingdom and the Statute the countries are equal and there is no division of responsibility. So it can never be the case that the Netherlands has a responsibility. If there is a responsibility, it is the responsibility of the Kingdom, not the Netherlands. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Another example is how Saint Martin deals with the prison on the island. The country of Sint-Maarten itself is responsible for this too and has left that responsibility entirely behind. In fact, in a discussion with the Sint-Maarten cabinet, the Minister of Justice of Saint-Maarten, Mr De Wever, indicated that if things go completely wrong with the prison, it will of course become a responsibility of the Kingdom and therefore of the Netherlands. That can never be the intention of an autonomous power, I ask the Secretary of State. Is it not time for a complete revision of the Staff Regulations? When will there be an evaluation of that Statute? Because there are also some looming errors in this Statute. How do other countries view the Statute, I ask the Secretary of State, and are they prepared to do the same? Another responsibility of the government of St.Maarten is the burning mess they lovingly call "the dump." It is a disgrace of the island and a risk to tourism. But Dutch soldiers are also placed on Sint-Maarten and suffer from it physically. How does the cabinet ensure that these soldiers do not have to work in the harmful smoke but also not live? With regard to financial supervision, there is still a difference of opinion between the Secretary of State and myself. It is therefore a question of the right of the College of Financial Supervision to have access to the state-owned enterprises of the countries. The ruling of the Council of State focused on a designation to Curaçao, but when we look at the National Financial Supervision Act, supervision is about all income that a country has, and after this income, according to Article 15 of the National Financial Supervision Act... I quote: 'The revenue and expenditure entered in the budget are explained.' That means that there has to be an explanation. It must be clear where the income comes from. Where did those dividends come from? One example now is UTS, the telecom provider on Curaçao. The overdue dividend must now be paid by UTS, but who is telling me that UTS is not now making a loan that is not visible to the College of Financial Supervision, and that it is going to pay dividends from a government-NV that is not financially viable, but is now going to give money to a government that is going to straighten out its budget? What is really only a weakening of the country's financial situation. How does the Secretary of State view this? As far as supervision is concerned, I am also concerned about the cost of the new hospital. They're getting out of control. In 2014, I already drew attention to it. Again, I quote from my contribution to the WHO Accountability Kingdom Relations: "As an example, I would like to mention the hospital in Curaçao. It is only registered by the Netherlands, on that loan. The stakes were to get 30% private investors. So there aren't any. Why not, then, is my question." I still haven't had a good answer to that either. "Is the investment too risky? Is the business case available and provides sufficient support for a viable hospital? Are all costs included in the hospital budget? I understand that building was not already in the budget and that these costs are already getting out of hand. In short, questions I have as a representative of the people about a loan on the Dutch budget." The current replies of this State Secretary show that even now the College of Financial Supervision does not know if there is a final business case. Then we're four years old, and 200 million further. And another loan for the country of Curaçao, which will only get into further trouble. How can I ask the Secretary of State? With regard to Bonaire, I will continue to refer to agriculture. You won't be surprised, Mr. Chairman. Anyone know where the million a year went from the LVV on Bonaire? I took note of the letter from Bonaire of the Board of Directors to the Secretary of State. In it, the Board of Directors writes that a manual has been written in relation to agriculture. They've created a manual. Beautiful, but is that $8 million? It's unexplainable and why not? Why doesn't it even make sense where that money went? Is it perhaps an idea to send the FIOD on it, or the Fiscal Detective? I don't care, because it can't be true that we don't know where that money went. Because Bonaire complains about too little money, but the money goes out the door in a bunch, or they refuse to bring it in. Tourist tax and car rental, for example, are all matters in which the Executive Board does not fulfil its responsibilities. I can assume that all these issues will be dealt with in the forthcoming governance agreement. As a result of the financial concerns, I would like a further explanation from the Secretary of State regarding the tax revenue from the BES. According to the Secretary of State, the increase in income is a consequence of the dollar rate. For my part, there's still some uncertainty about it. I would like an explanation from the Secretary of State. I also get a very short answer when I answer the question about missing information on Statia's tax revenue series. The total amount is given, and that's done. That's what I read. I'd seen the total. Only there's a huge hole in where it comes from. Then it's not so much that we want to know what the total amount is. I also want to know why we do not have this information, because I think it is at the heart of the discussion we are engaged in with regard to the administration of Saint-Eustatius. It can't be true, can it? Then it's gone? We've had it, but haven't we delivered it? Didn't they ask? Is it missing from the computer? These are all things that I could come up with, but I don't think it's wise that I'm standing here making things up. I think the Secretary of State can answer that perfectly. So I like to hear it. Finally, Mr President. The Kingdom deserves and receives our attention. But we see it sheds within the Kingdom. It squeaks and it cracks. The Statute as we know it is at the end of the shelf life. The VVD is keen to see an evaluation and revision of the Statute, because the Kingdom must also enter the 21st century. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u13	Thank you. Mr De Graaf has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u14	This morning I read in the Volkskrant that Minister Blok said that the refugee problem in Curaçao really is a matter of the Kingdom and that Mr Bosman also leaves the door open when it comes to aid to other countries. What's that crack look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u15	In my view, Article 3 of the Treaty requires me to give some thought to the fact that we are providing assistance to one another within the Kingdom. If there is a request from one of the countries, such as 'gosh, we are not coming out; help us', then that is a serious request that we simply have to assess within the National Council of Ministers. I think that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u16	Okay. That's the formal side of the matter. Then I'd like to continue with Mr. Bosman of the VVD. Can Mr Bosman say here in the House of Representatives that, firstly, we will not allow any Venezuelan in the Netherlands to take over Curaçao in order to alleviate the refugee problem in this way and secondly, we will not spend any euro on Curaçao to help take care of Venezuelans?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u17	Well, the answer must be a little bigger. I also think that Curaçao says very easily that they are all illegal immigrants and that it is of recent times, because when we look at the past, we know that over the years, for decades, people from Venezuela have come across the water in Aruba and in Curaçao. They live and work there, without the registration of Curaçao, for example. So I find it too easy to say that they are all illegal immigrants of recent times. It is a well-known phenomenon within Curaçao. If Curaçao asks for support, it is important that we start to assess it on serious grounds. I am not waiting for an air bridge towards the Netherlands. I don't think Curaçao's gonna want that either. It is special, because I raised this problem years ago. In addition, Curaçao was a bit trivializing. They said, "Well, Mr. Bosman, don't worry; it's about small numbers. I said it a few years ago in the Interparliamentary Kingdom Conference. I think you were even there, Mr. De Graaf. I even said that perhaps we should just recommend a visa requirement. That too was not accepted from that side of the country. So I'm also a bit critical in the game. If the countries suddenly appear very anxious and say that there is panic, I say: well, it is your panic; I would be happy to help you, but it is your panic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u18	Finally, very briefly, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u19	Of course, we already do a lot of things, including the Navy and the like. Think of defending the external borders. In this task, the Netherlands already sponsors very generously. But can Mr Bosman here give everyone the firm commitment that we are simply not going to accept people, that there is not going to be a euro and that the assistance we possibly provide is only at the level of consultation? Nothing to spend and nobody to record; let's just say that loud and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u20	No, let's be honest. If money has to go there, because people from the IND go there for example, we also spend money on it. If we have to support a system on Curaçao, we simply support Curaçao. In fact, it would adorn Mr. De Graaf if he were to say, "God, let's get it right on Curaçao." This prevents a possible flow towards the Netherlands. It would be much better if the PVV said, "Oh, let's get it right there." But I don't hear the PVV about that. That's too bad. That's a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u21	Thank you. This brings you to the end of your term. This gives me the opportunity to extend a warm welcome to our kites, to thank them for their interest and to express admiration for the work they always do for us. Thank you. Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Each country shall ensure the achievement of fundamental human rights and freedoms, legal certainty and sound administration. Ensuring these rights, freedoms, legal certainty and sound administration is a matter for the Kingdom." This is the text of Article 43 of the Statute for the Kingdom of the Netherlands and expresses the core idea of our constitutional relations. Every Dutchman has inalienable rights, whether you live here in Europe or in the Caribbean, in one of the countries, or in the Caribbean Netherlands. The current political relations date from 10-10-10. They were modified to reflect changed circumstances, views and mutual expectations. The renewed relationship with the motherland of the Netherlands should confirm mutual solidarity. What happened to that in ten years? How does the Secretary of State himself feel about it going in the Kingdom? A year ago, the devastating hurricane Irma crossed Saint Martin, Saba and Saint Eustatius. The reconstruction process is getting under way and the living conditions of too many people depend on their own improvisation capacity. The country of Curaçao is confronted daily with regional instability. Mr President, I see Mr Bosman standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u23	Yes, but I thought I'd let you finish your introductory part. But it is also fine if you see a natural break in your speech, then I shall now give the floor to Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u24	I hear Mrs Özütok talking about 'the motherland'. That would mean that GroenLinks sees a certain relationship of authority within the Kingdom. Does this mean that the Netherlands is responsible for Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, as a motherland?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u25	It is, of course, a mutual connection that we have with each other. That's what the statute says. With'mother country' I refer to the fact that we are here from the mainland working on our Kingdom. Nothing more and nothing less than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u26	But then I don't get it. Then you can just call the countries within the Kingdom, not specifically the motherland. If Mrs Özütok uses the term "mother country," then there is a relationship of authority. A mother who takes care of her children. Isn't that what she means? Does Mrs Özütok believe that it is a horizontal relationship of authority, that there is therefore no relationship of authority? Then I find it strange that she uses the term "motherland." Does she distance herself from that, or does she say, "No, there is a relationship of authority in it?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u27	You make it into a relationship of authority, but we do live in a kingdom with countries and a number of islands with which we have a relationship. In that sense, you can say that the term'mother country' gives a value, as if that responsibility is heavy. But we do have a responsibility, because it is in the Statute. It's not so much that the mother jumps into the breach every time there's a problem. I think that's what you're worried about, but that's not what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u28	I would like to conclude with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u29	That is interesting, because now Mrs Özütok says:'mother country' and 'we have responsibilities'. We don't have one, because it's a joint relationship of authority. It's a horizontal relationship of authority. At my house, at least it was like my mom said, you go to bed, and I just went to bed. That's an authority relationship. I do not know how that is with Mrs Özütok, but I think that is simply a relationship of authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u30	No, I think it's actually in the Staff Regulations. I'll read it again. It is the text of Article 43 of the Statute for the Kingdom of the Netherlands. This expresses the core idea of our constitutional relations. Every Dutchman has inalienable rights, whether you live here in Europe or in the Caribbean. In that sense, therefore, it is very important for that relationship that we should also promote this solidarity with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u31	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u32	Mr. Chairman. The country of Curaçao is confronted daily with regional instability. Venezuelan refugees do not find a safe return in Curaçao, but are imprisoned and returned. The Isla refinery is still releasing its toxic smoke. Even on Bonaire, St.Eustatius and Saba, for all intents and purposes, our Dutch territory, there is poignant poverty and children are growing up in poverty. The central question is how the Secretary of State fulfills his responsibility for the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. Of course, this responsibility is greatest for the BES islands, but also for the countries, the Secretary of State must regard himself as a guardian of Caribbean human rights. Suggested: GroenLinks appreciates the person of the Secretary of State. When the far-reaching decision was taken earlier this year to take over the administration of Saint-Eustatius, he himself travelled to speak to the Statians personally. I do wonder whether he leaves sufficient room for local representatives to influence or shape government policy independently. The recent discussion on the desirability of setting a social minimum for the Caribbean Netherlands is a good example of this. I asked written questions about this last week. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's response. My group is currently finding a gap between Dutch policy and Caribbean-Dutch policy. GroenLinks also endorsed the idea that the BES islands should not be over-asked in synchronising policies. But now a situation has arisen in which the level of law in the Caribbean Netherlands is inferior to that of the European Netherlands. The question is whether this legislative restraint still serves the principle of equality. In view of the great social and social backwardness and problems in the BES islands, it seems necessary to reverse the current principle of derogation. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Last week we spoke with this Secretary of State about a change in the law on the registration of lifeless babies in the BRP. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State replied in the negative to my question as to whether this would also apply to the BES islands. I am not concerned, of course, with the introduction of the BRP on the islands, but with the question of whether the Secretary of State sees the possibility of introducing such a system on the islands if desired. Will the Secretary of State make a commitment to this? When it comes to countries, GroenLinks also has a number of concerns. The International Affairs Advisory Council notes that exceptions are made for Aruba, Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and the BES Islands when entering into human rights treaties. Implementation of human rights conventions costs human resources which are not available in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. The AIV notes that this puts co-existence of human rights treaties on the long track. This leads to a division in the Kingdom and undermines our international credibility. It's like "all Dutchmen are equal, but some of them are more equal than others." For a good understanding, I am talking about the rights of the child, the Istanbul Convention on Protection against Domestic Violence and Child Abuse. Implementation is a problem in which I like to see the urgency of the Secretary of State. I would also like to see them for the enforcement of the treaty-law human rights that do apply. I am referring, for example, to the end of the poisonous emissions from the Isla refinery on Curaçao. For decades, the Chamber has been very concerned about this. Almost always it is dismissed as a matter of country in which the Netherlands sees no role for itself. There are legal proceedings currently under way to support the claim that human rights are being violated. The inhabitants of Curaçao are also entitled to a healthy environment and health. In response to previously asked questions I got zero on reekest, because: country matter. I ask the Secretary of State whether it is true that the Netherlands is working to find a new operator of the Isla refinery is now becoming increasingly clear that the current user, the Venezuelan state oil company, will not renew the contract. How does this relate to the Dutch isolation when it comes to protecting Dutch citizens from health threatening practices?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u33	Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u34	Things are happening very quickly with Dutch citizens on Curaçao. I think they're just Curaçao people. With all due respect, they are residents of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. They have a kingdom passport. Mrs Özütok looks very much at the cabinet. How does GroenLinks intend to intervene with regard to the Isla? What does GroenLinks think should happen with regard to the Isla in Curaçao?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u35	I think we should be more active in this. There is considerable environmental damage, not only on the island but throughout the area. We are also concerned about the health effects for people. That's what we're worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u36	We share the concern, absolutely. Just... we need to get a little more active. I would like to hear from GroenLinks, in concrete terms, what, according to GroenLinks, should happen on Curaçao with regard to the Isla.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u37	I have no concrete proposal, if that's what you mean, but I'd like to hear if the cabinet still sees any possibilities. This really is a problem that we should work on together, including with the islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u38	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u39	Now Mrs Özütok is putting it away again very quickly. I think GroenLinks is quite a party with serious ideas, but apparently the idea of the Isla at GroenLinks is missing. Does GroenLinks have any idea what should happen on Curaçao with regard to the Isla?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u40	The best thing would be to close it, of course, because it is very harmful. Or that there is an operating company that will also reduce the sustainability and health damage. That would be the best part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u41	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u42	No, we'll do it in threes. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u43	The mere fact that the Caribbean part of the Kingdom is not next door does not mean that we can skipper with the equivalence of all Dutch. Poverty there and here needs to be eliminated and additional effort is needed for the BES islands. Asylum seekers there and here are entitled to decent reception and proper asylum procedures. This requires offering support to the country of Curaçao, where there is no adequate capacity. And we ask for more aid to the land of Saint Martin, where a year after the devastating hurricane many people are left to their own devices. The Kingdom of the Netherlands is united by the idea that every Dutchman has equal rights. It is solidarity that binds us. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he, as a material coordinating director, wants to shape mutual solidarity over the coming period. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u44	Thank you. While Mrs Van den Berg walks from the CDA to the chair, I have just the opportunity to welcome two more guests: the Minister responsible for Saint Martin, Mrs Wuite, and the Deputy Minister responsible for Saint Martin, Mr Somersall. I'm glad you're in our midst! Thank you. Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is part of the Caribbean. The responsibility for Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin is primarily the responsibility of the governments and for Bonaire, Saba and Saint-Eustatius the responsibility of the island authorities, but through history we are connected. The BES Islands are special municipalities and therefore the Netherlands has a special responsibility for them. The CDA Group is convinced that only joint efforts can address poverty and other social issues on the islands. People need perspective. Joint effort requires good coordination. The CDA Group would like to reiterate its support for the intention to further strengthen the coordinating role of BZK. The policy is now fragmented, so there are no common priorities and focus. Stop shopping, we said before. On this point, information has been requested from the Council of State. It is not just a question of formal powers, but also of the practical approach taken by the departments. How can the fragmentation of policies be combated? How can projects and investments be better coordinated? D66 I have had discussions with this and CDA are therefore proposing an integrated Kingdom approach. Other departments should first consult with the State Secretary of BZK on their plans and adapt them where necessary. We are looking forward to the opinion of the Council of State, because there will probably be more coordination options in addition to this proposal. Mr. Chairman. Last month we talked to the Secretary of State about tackling poverty in Bonaire, Saba and Saint Eustatius. This cabinet has already taken many good steps in one year. We would also like to express our appreciation for this. But improving living conditions requires commitment on different fronts, for a long time. The CDA Group believes that the CDA motion that calls for the development of an integrated multi-annual governance agreement for each island of BES should be implemented quickly. Both sides must commit themselves to achieving results. Only long-term agreements offer the prospect of real improvement of the island's existence. People now have no perspective and are desperate. Children are particularly vulnerable. Nearly 50% of the population lives on or below the poverty line. We are also looking forward to addressing rental prices for homes. There are big differences now. To pay the rents people now often live too tight, with all the consequences. Last week, a CBS study on nuisance appeared. At Saint-Eustatius the percentage had fallen, but by 46% still high. On Saba, however, 84% of the inhabitants noticed nuisance in the area. And how is it handled with positive local proposals, such as the Bonaire Blue Destination Plan and the Dutch Caribbean Nature Alliance? Can there be an overview of relevant social figures? The 2017 Annual Report of the National Youth Monitor of the CBS lacks figures on youth, migration and so on in relation to the BES. Mr. Chairman. The islands themselves also have their own responsibility to perform regional tasks well, such as increasing enforcement, ensuring administrative order and being a consistent, reliable government. It is a good thing that the cabinet also wants to invest and support in this. Last year, during the budgetary procedure, the Chamber asked the government to examine the possibilities of supporting and implementing, with the expertise of, for example, Wageningen, an innovative agricultural and horticultural policy, so that the islands could provide so much opportunity for their own food production. This creates jobs and lowers the cost of living. At the end of April, the Secretary of State informed the Chamber that the Minister of Agriculture was prepared to consult the island authorities in order to develop their own agricultural and horticultural programmes together with the knowledge institutes. What is the state of play at the moment? Mr. Chairman. The free allowance. Earlier, I indicated that one third of Saba's budget is an island of 2,000 people, with 70 target payments to be accounted for separately. Which municipality in the Netherlands has 70 target benefits? Is the Secretary of State prepared to look into this and integrate some of the amounts into the free allowance? Can the Secretary of State state state what progress has been made on the projects financed by the funds of the Envelope Region? Mr. Chairman. The three autonomous countries. How's the reconstruction going at St. Martin's? Is it on schedule? How is the liquidity support provided for 2018-2019 handled? Does it go directly to Saint Martin or through the World Bank? Can we trust that the Netherlands will provide support with respect to knowledge and skills if Sint-Maarten asks? And how is the funds still available in the Restoration Fund being handled? There appears to be €650,000 available. Can this be used for the restoration and restoration of cultural heritage? Mr. Chairman. The economy of Curaçao is in a bad way. The situation in Venezuela has a much greater effect than expected. 30% of the economy is directly or indirectly related to Venezuela and thus experiences an impact. According to the calculations, the population has grown over the last two years by about 10%, 15,000 people, by undocumented persons. These people do have the right to education and care. In addition, there are problems with the refinery. All in all, there is a huge challenge to get the financial system in order. After a request from Curaçao, the Netherlands made a donation for the adaptation of the asylum centre. Are there any other roads along which the Netherlands has been asked to provide support and which the Netherlands could also follow? Mr. Chairman. The challenges for Aruba are no less great. There too, the financial system is a huge problem. Have there been any support requests, including from the welfare article? Mr. Chairman. Finally. The CDA Group wonders whether any other interpretation of the College's financial supervision might help the islands themselves to get a better grip on their financial management. The world is changing rapidly and the institutions need to grow. Is the Secretary of State prepared to evaluate the current content of the CFT if both countries would need it? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u46	Thank you. Mr Bosman has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u47	I know Mrs Van den Berg as a solid financial expert. I can imagine Mrs Van den Berg asking the Secretary of State to provide support for Aruba. What exactly does Mrs Van den Berg mean by supporting Aruba?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u48	Mr Bosman already referred in his contribution to the welfare article. I was wondering whether Aruba had asked for support on the basis of that article of assistance for a particular dossier. Apart from what happened to Curaçao through a donation to the asylum seeker centre, knowledge and skills can also be support. My question in general is therefore: is there a request from these countries on the basis of that article of assistance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u49	Okay, but then it's specifically about the refugee problem. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u50	Not specifically about refugees. In my view, the provision of assistance is formulated in general terms. Mr Bosman has already indicated that the Netherlands, if it is called upon to do so, must come up with good arguments as to why something is happening or not and to what extent it is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u51	Now it's a little wooly. Is that about budget support? When it comes to this, we must take a serious look at what has been agreed with Aruba in the past. Aruba has committed itself to a number of conditions regarding budget support. So I hope the CDA doesn't hint at budget support, apart from the agreements that have already been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u52	No, Mr. President, we're not hitting budget support. However, some projects may ask whether we might have an interest in participating in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u53	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Raak. He speaks for the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u54	The Netherlands is using Stapotactics; we want a coup d'état; we strive for slavery and apartheid. These are some of the words that recently fell at a meeting of parliamentarians on St Martin's Day. The subject was the "Dutch take-over." That scared the hell out of me. It had to do with the reconstruction. We have made 550 million available, and we have tried to provide people and resources to build the island. And now you see that such language is being used. It is also said that we want to become independent. How that ended, we don't know, because the light went out. People e-mailed me: if they can't even light the light, can they rule a country? Mr. Chairman. It pains me to see that more than half of Saint Martin's parliamentarians are suspected of fraud and corruption or convicted. I call this event because it says something about how we are currently working together in the Kingdom. Mr Bosman also mentioned the inability of the Kingdom, the tight ties. We can't work together very well. That is why we invited the World Bank to help build the island. But we have also all visited the island and visited the World Bank. The World Bank is convinced that it is in a hurry to do work. They think in decades, in periods of ten years. Meanwhile, people sit on the island after a year and wonder why nothing happens. We're stepping on the World Bank's heels. Can you hurry up? They feel that they are already in a flying hurry. Why can't we do that between the Netherlands and Sint-Maarten, I ask the Minister. Unfortunately, I also see the tight tires and the powerlessness in the Kingdom in other places. Aruba is bankrupt and cannot grow economically out of that debt itself. Mr Bosman and I visited the refinery in January. Both of us have seen that it will never come back to life. But there's been a contract. Under this contract there is also a requirement that if the refinery is not going to run, hundreds of millions of dollars will have to be paid. How's the contract coming? I heard about the week that hundreds of millions of dollars were also borrowed for the airport. A very vague bank was involved, who also had close contacts with the gambling world. Who ever said yes to that? How did that ever happen? Isn't that how the island gets out of trouble? In the end, we are responsible, but what can we do? I once asked almost a hundred questions about the gambling industry in Curaçao. Two years ago, our government sent them all to Curaçao, but we might as well have put them in a closet, because you won't hear from them anymore. Can the Secretary of State answer those questions again? Talk about the gambling industry. It's also been five years since Helmin Wiels was murdered. The gambling industry was behind that, too. Jamaloodin's in jail now, I think, at Bonaire's. Others are already mentioned. What's going on with the investigation? Because as long as there is no clarity about that, we will have the killer and perhaps later also the sponsors, but not the financiers who are behind it again. So they are still active on the islands and if those people are active there, then the islands have no future. We caught Corallo, but we all know there are many more. Then there is something else on Curaçao where the powerlessness of the Kingdom can be seen. Refugees from Venezuela are now coming to Curaçao in greater numbers. Then Curaçao says: The Netherlands must help. And then the Netherlands says: yes, but what help do you need? Then Curaçao says: we have made requests for help. And then the Dutch Government says: we haven't heard of anything. How is that possible? How's that? What happens to all these people? People are now being sent back linea recta. All of them. What happens to those people in Venezuela? There are journalists who report that it doesn't end well with that. Does the Secretary of State know those messages, too? I would also like to know from the Secretary of State exactly what Minister Blok agreed on behalf of the Kingdom when the blockade was lifted. I want the Secretary of State to be able to rule out here tomorrow that taking those refugees back was part of the deal to reopen the border. I hope the Secretary of State can promise that. There are, of course, a lot of mistakes being made here. There's a lot of powerlessness, especially when it comes to Saba, Statia and Bonaire. In the last few weeks, we have talked about the social minimum. From the ten towers, from the ministries here, every effort has been made not to set a social minimum, while the people on the islands feel that they are entitled to it. The House of Representatives felt the same way, so did the House of Lords, and that's what everyone actually thinks. We also see that people on Saba and Bonaire have become terribly angry about that. Here you see that powerlessness again, but the other way around. The Secretary of State says "we have all kinds of plans: we're going to fight poverty, we're going to build houses, we're going to help the youth," but in the meantime people are very angry instead of happy. Why? Because we don't call it a social minimum. Why not? Why should it be stipulated in Economic Affairs that there should not be a social minimum, whereas the House of Representatives wants it to be? Statia, Saint-Eustatius, we've talked about it before. Democracy has been abolished. I still find that painful. We will hear later from the Secretary of State or, if so, when there will be elections. Tomorrow it's 10-10-18. It is then eight years since the new political relations came into force. I don't look back on those eight years with pride. I was an opponent at the time, just like the VVD. I'm not looking back on that. I'll look for something that could inspire us all to do better over the next eight years, especially for Saint Eustatius. I'm looking for a reason for us, something that binds us and what we share with Saint-Eustatius, to at least rebuild this little island in the Caribbean together. We all know, of course, what happened on Statia at Fort Orange, many of you have been there. On November 16, 1776, there sounded a gunshot in the direction of a Navy ship under American flag. That was the First Salute. At that time, the United States was recognized for the first time by another nation. On November 16, 2026, that will be 250 years ago. We also saw President Roosevelt's plaque from 1939. In America it's really a big thing: the First Salute on Statia at Fort Orange. My question to the Secretary of State is whether we could agree that the next eight years will be used to build Statia, for a common purpose and with our common past, which has many dark sides, of colonialism, of slave trade, of arms trade, which was certainly not insignificant in the American War of Independence. Could we agree that we are working together to ensure that our Heads of State, those of the United States and those of the Netherlands, are standing there on 16 November 2026, and that the Secretary of State may also be there to commemorate the First Salute and thus celebrate the commonality we share and the unity of our Kingdom? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u55	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Diertens of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. D66 is committed to constructive cooperation with the Caribbean Netherlands and the autonomous countries within our Kingdom. As far as I'm concerned, the focus should be on what binds us, with appreciation for the differences. In it, my former group chairman, Alexander Pechtold, and I found each other from day one. He was an excellent person who also kept the Caribbean part of the Kingdom in mind when making plans. I'll share this with him. I just want to continue in his mind in my own way. His society is a society with an eye for the other. He did his help to orphanages and other important social projects in silence, without pooha and without breast-knocking. Still, it didn't stay unseen. On their behalf, therefore, I would like to convey this message: Danki Alexander, tur kos bon, i bin sosegá akinan, and come and rest here. During the various work visits I have made in recent years on the islands, both with the committee and individually, I was always inspired by beautiful examples of cooperation. On the islands people are working hard for a better future for themselves and for their children. There are many people and organisations that are committed to vulnerable people. I am grateful for my commitment to improving things, also supported by many local people and organisations. The first steps towards better living conditions in the Caribbean Netherlands have been taken. A joint and vigorous approach remains urgently needed. I've been pushing for speed before. Good thing there are three pillars. 1. Raising the income. 2. Reducing the cost of living. 3. Strengthening economic strength. We have talked very extensively about the social minimum recently. A number of concrete measures are being taken which my group agrees with. For example, employers' costs are reduced, which should result in an increase in the minimum wage. I ask the Secretary of State if we are actually going to see this as of 1 January 2019. In addition, support and family allowances will be increased, a supplement will be introduced for single elderly people and debt relief will be stepped up. I also welcome the impetus for childcare. These are valuable measures to combat poverty. To strengthen the economy and the labour market, the intention is to set up a job centre. Is this comparable to the offer here in these working regions? What's the plan for this? Mr. Chairman. Good cooperation is needed to implement the three pillars. That is why I am pleased that this Secretary of State is supposed to maintain the overview and ensure that the various ministries are mutually reinforcing. This coordinating role should lead to the improvement and implementation of policies. That is how I read it in the budget. The key and initiative for change lie with you, your colleagues and local government. This brings me to my first question: what opportunities for improvement in implementation does the Secretary of State see? My group tabled a motion during the budget debate asking the other departments to involve this Secretary of State in all their planning and budgeting. In this way, the prior alignment can take place rather than afterwards. The largest contribution to the BES islands comes from the individual ministries. Better alignment can prevent fragmentation. I would like to hear when the opinion of the Council of State on the implementation of the motion is expected. Mr. Chairman. Last year around this time the chaos caused by the Hurricane on St.Maarten was still complete. A lot of work has been done in the meantime. I appreciate that, but I do wonder if it won't take too long. There are signs that reconstruction is slow, also because of all kinds of procedures and directives. The World Bank did not make 55 million available until July this year. The Court of Auditors is going to examine whether the aid will start soon enough and meet the needs of the inhabitants, and will present its findings this year. I would now like to hear from the Secretary of State whether the maximum achievable is being done and whether procedures are not unnecessarily complicated. Sustainability and hurricane resilience are important conditions for the reconstruction of D66. Reconstruction can also be used as an opportunity to improve things structurally. So no wood-rope solutions. How do these conditions take shape in practice, I ask the Secretary of State? Similarly, budgets do not reveal the situation with regard to strengthening border control and setting up an integrity room. Both were conditions for the transfer of money by the World Bank. I would like more clarity on this. I would also like to hear what the concrete objectives are and how we, as a Chamber, are kept informed of progress. Mr. Chairman. I've pleaded for psychosocial assistance before. The Secretary of State himself has repeatedly stated that we must not forget the social side of the story in addition to all the hardware. In addition to the government, international organisations and non-governmental organisations would also have direct access to the trust fund, but I get the signal that this has not yet started with ios and NGOs. This while they are concerned with social projects that fit within the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, for example in the areas of safe education, psychosocial support and child protection. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that these organisations should quickly have direct access to the trust fund? And should the route through the World Bank be delayed too long, is the Secretary of State prepared to allow direct funding through the budget? Mr. Chairman. The cost of living on the islands is a recurring theme. My group is concerned about the high price of healthy food. A lot of people have an unhealthy lifestyle. Obesity is also common. In the Netherlands, the Secretary of State of VWS is working with many different parties to conclude a prevention agreement. I would like to see an appropriate prevention agreement on the islands as well. Healthy nutrition is often unavailable, and people often live through poverty and shared housing in very stressful conditions. Action is therefore needed in several areas. That is why I ask the Secretary of State if he would like to bring parties together with the Ministry of VWS in order to reach a prevention agreement on the islands as well. Mr. Chairman. The Court states that there is no positive trend in financial management in Aruba, Curaçao and St Martin. In the accountability review, the Court recommended that a broad evaluation be carried out. This has not been met by the Cabinet, while an evaluation could be the basis of a joint improvement programme. Can the Secretary of State state state why he doesn't think this is really necessary? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Curaçao, which is currently facing a major challenge: the refugees from Venezuela who are seeking refuge there. It's already been mentioned. Your Foreign Minister indicated that the migration crisis is leading to enormous challenges for the region, and that it is important to join forces and strengthen the joint approach. I would like to hear from the coordinating director how he sees his role in this, also in the light of the critical reports on the poor conditions in which refugees are living in Curaçao. Finally, my group considers it very important that the Paris climate objectives are met. This is relevant for the European part of the Netherlands, but certainly also for the islands. For example, climate change threatens nature, including the beautiful coral. This is something we need to be careful about. Moreover, this nature is the reason for tourists to visit the islands. Climate change can therefore be at the expense of an important source of revenue. Good nature management is in fact the basis of the economy of the BES. DCNA is the partnership of nature parks on all islands. That is why two questions. Can it be seen, in consultation with them and the naturalists, whether nature management and conservation in the Caribbean Netherlands can be better and more efficiently organised and guaranteed? And do you want to involve STINAPA, who performs such an important role with nature management at Bonaire, in the conclusion of the governance agreement? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the threats to climate change, I also see opportunities. Sun, wind and water are abundant. There are still major steps to be taken in the area of sustainable agriculture. And the emissions of oil refineries could be drastically reduced. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what opportunities he sees for involving the islands in achieving the climate objectives. Is CO emissions currently being monitored? And to what extent are they now included in the negotiations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u57	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u58	Mr. Chairman. Our relationship with the Caribbean part of our kingdom occasionally reminds me of a marriage between a man and a woman. That marriage may have ended up in a bit of trouble: lack of loyalty, communication that doesn't go well and conflicts about how exactly you divide household tasks. And yet stay and be connected, because divorce is not what you want and is not an option. Besides, there's the kids. You asked, Mr. Van Raak, what binds us. In response to that, I say: first of all, the children, who must be able to be sure that they get the same rights and the same opportunities to grow up in whatever part of our Kingdom they were born in. They have not opted for administrative conflicts, administrative undermining or inappropriate governance. They also did not choose nature problems, poverty problems, housing problems or security problems. I think it is precisely for those children that we should constantly look for solutions. In the modest time I have, I would like to focus on that. Mr. Chairman. It is not for nothing that UNICEF continues to draw attention to the position of these children and to the rights of those children. In 2012 to 2017, a large amount of money was explicitly released to improve the position of these children. I mention, for example, youth aid and a safe place to report when they are in danger. This amount has not been recovered in the current budget. That is why I, together with GroenLinks, have tabled an amendment to make available at least 1 million for the coming year in order to anchor those children's rights. I also hope, of course, that the Secretary of State will give a positive opinion to help these children. Mr. Chairman. In general, human rights on the islands are inadequate. As far as child prostitution and child pornography are concerned, it is still lagging behind. But there are other problems, such as poverty. And the lack of good housing also causes problems. This will allow social problems to persist for an extra long time. You don't have a place to go when there's domestic violence. And too many family members live together in one place. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to look very closely at the system around these children in the interests of those children. What's it gonna take to give these kids opportunities? In that respect, I think it really is a missed opportunity that we have not set a social minimum now. Yeah, we've discussed it before. Yes, I see the cabinet has taken some good steps. And yet, a minimum standard is not for nothing a minimum standard. I still hope that the cabinet will take swift steps to combat poverty among the whole population, which is particularly affecting children. Mr. Chairman. It is right that Mr Diertens asks about the cost of living in general. There are many other factors involved. Among other things, agriculture has been mentioned, as well as a good living and environmental environment. For the sake of shortness of time, I agree with that. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask whether there is anything we can do about the poachiness in the issue of funds for the reconstruction of Saint Martin. Does the Secretary of State have any influence on that, or should we accept the situation as it is now? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm afraid I have to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u59	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u60	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. The Christian Union is committed to a warm bond between the European part and the Caribbean part of our Kingdom. We also want to help the islands to improve the situation for the population on a sustainable basis, from the point of view of the individuality and culture of these islands. I would also like to express my thanks to the Secretary of State, who has shown in the past year that he is actively shaping his coordinating role within the cabinet. I wonder how he looks at this himself and whether he's satisfied with how things are going now. Mr. Chairman. At St.Maarten we saw the progress of reconstruction. Colleagues have also spoken about this. We have also heard that it only goes one step at a time and a great deal remains to be done. Not all houses have a roof and the island was not ready for hurricane season. That's what worries us. The aid we are providing through the World Bank was good reasons for this. I agree with the questions put by colleagues. What possibilities does the Secretary of State see for speeding up and improving this? Because people have a right to live in a safe home and a safe environment. Mr. Chairman. In reconstruction, we must also look at the ecological challenges. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take this with him in the reconstruction plans? I agree with the comments that have been made about the dumping on the island. That will have to be resolved very quickly. Mr. Chairman. Last year the Children's Ombudsman wrote that the children in the Caribbean Netherlands have the same rights on paper as the children in the European Netherlands, but in practice we see that the bar for children in the Caribbean Netherlands is lower. We're double standards. You can't and you can't. The Christian Union has drawn attention to this before. I call on the Secretary of State to do this again. We ask the Secretary of State, together with his colleague from VWS, the public bodies and the responsible youth organisations, to work to improve the position of children in the Caribbean Netherlands. I am thinking here of a greater commitment to prevention and general education support and a final approach to domestic violence and child abuse. I am also thinking of strengthening cooperation on all islands through better coordination of the management of the Hague so that the services and foundations come together. I'd like to know how the Secretary of State looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u61	During the previous period, Mr Segers and my colleague, Mr Van Laar, tabled an amendment aimed at strengthening the points you have just mentioned in your speech. That was $3 million. We still have 2 billion in the reserve bank, but I can't get that yet, so I kept it modest. I went for a million dollars, along with GroenLinks. I'm actually hoping for your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u62	I have seen your amendment and we will certainly consider it, but first I have a number of other supplementary questions for the Secretary of State. I also tabled a motion last year because I wanted a continuation of the goals that would have been achieved with that money. We also received a letter from the Secretary of State. I would like to put my questions to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u63	I sense a constructive attitude and I appreciate it, so I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u64	Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union also believes it is important that public bodies approach vulnerable young people under the age of 18. An institution for supervised living has recently been closed on Bonaire. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look with the Secretary of State of VWS at the possibility of making provision for the treatment of vulnerable young people? I'd like to hear his reaction. The evaluation of children's rights policy, to which I have just referred, which the Secretary of State sent to the Chamber this spring, contains very little about the results of child rights policy. The Secretary of State rightly writes that it is now a matter of making efforts more sustainable. But how does he ensure that children's rights are truly anchored in the policy on a sustainable basis? Are the resources available all spent? If that is not the case, what will happen to the remaining resources? I'd like an answer from the Secretary of State on this. The government regularly expresses its concerns about the quality of public administration. By means of technical assistance and plans to strengthen the administrative apparatus we can contribute from the Netherlands. I wonder whether this includes training for the island council members, the representatives of the people, for example. We have a lot of attention for that in the Netherlands. What's that like on the islands anyway? Then Saint-Eustatius. For the Christian Union, it is very important that the people of Saint-Eustatius soon realise that the situation on the island is really improving, that the infrastructure is improving, that the socio-economic situation is improving and that something is really happening to prevent the erosion of the coast. In the recent general consultation, the Secretary of State has indicated that he will shortly be coming to the Chamber with a letter on how he intends to deal with the elections. We look forward to the Secretary of State's view on this. I'll wait and see. Addressing poverty on the islands is a major concern for the Christian Union. We have talked a lot in recent weeks about setting a social minimum for the BES islands. The Christian Union believes it is very important that we continue to work to establish a minimum social level. We will therefore be following the government critically on this point. We had a good discussion about that. I think that we will discuss this even more in the coming years, even when the progress report is sent to the Chamber. Then the position of refugees. Amnesty writes that the situation of many Venezuelans who fled to Curaçao is not good. Although Curaçao did not sign the Refugee Convention, it is bound by the ECHR. Respect for human rights is a joint responsibility for the countries of the Kingdom. The Dutch assistance is aimed, among other things, at optimising the processes in the field of foreign policy, procedures and detention. I'm asking the Secretary of State what this is all about. Does this contribute to the fulfilment of the obligations of the ECHR? Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with the subject of human trafficking. A number of years ago, the Chamber adopted a motion by Mr Van Laar and Mr Segers asking the government to investigate independently the nature and extent of trafficking in human beings, forced prostitution and sexual abuse in the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom. We know that this is a big issue. We also know that the people on the islands are concerned about that. And we care about the victims of this. What exactly has been done with this appeal from the Chamber? Is the nature and extent of the problem well understood? If that is not the case, I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether he is prepared to carry out an investigation into this matter in order to get a good picture of it. I'll close with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u65	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Ever since I was a Member of Parliament, I've had the pleasure of representing the portfolio of Kingdom relations. When I started that six years ago, I was optimistic. We were going to renovate the Kingdom, support it, strengthen it and so on. Frankly, this is one of the policy areas in which I occasionally lose heart. I am by nature not a pessimistic person, but when I ask myself what has changed in those six years, I have to say a lot of things: nothing. Well, sometimes it's gotten worse. This has to do, among other things, with the devastating hurricane that has been raged over St.Maarten. But it also has to do with insufficient ability to turn policy desires into action and move forward. Anyway, let's not dwell on that. There are nice plans to help the islands on top of it and we keep running into that relentless practice. The conditions for the first part of Sint-Maarten's aid money have been met by now: an integrity room, better border surveillance, but that only happened this spring, much too late in fact. It's nice that this integrity room has arrived, but with experience, I have an immediate tendency to ask the question: what does that mean in political practice? So how's that gonna work? How do we monitor that? How do we guarantee that? Or rather: how can we guarantee this in the administration of Saint Martin himself? Border control is also still vulnerable and undersized. Can the increased reinforcement with the help of the Dutch Customs and the Royal Marechaussee really be realized? Or is this support perhaps permanently necessary? The Progress Committee also shows a shocking picture of the appalling conditions in a prison. No daily use; there are no rehabilitation programmes; there are leaks, as well as broken beds, three men in one cell, and three people who often have to guard 60 dangerous prisoners. The prison wall has no overclimbing security and there's no video surveillance. Judges and prosecutors take into account these poor conditions and gun-dangerous people are sent away, so the reports say. Probably the D.A.'s office won't be in jail for the inhumane circumstances anytime soon. Mr President, this is a country in our Kingdom! The Ministry of Justice of Saint Martin has so far offered little guidance to the process of strengthening security. The Progress Committee asks for massive support from the Netherlands, but what has improved in those three months? That advice dates from May of this year, if I remember correctly. Here we are going to close well-functioning prisons, to bring out a little frustration from me for a moment, and there life-threatening criminals can flee freely or walk freely. What possibilities does the Secretary of State see for using Dutch cells for the detention of these criminals until recovery has taken place? And I do not mean that we accept responsibility, but that we provide massive support in that regard. Mr. Chairman. The issue of Curaçao and the flow of refugees from Venezuela have appointed colleagues. For the sake of time, I am not going to go into that at the moment. I would like to zoom in on the coordinating role of the Secretary of State, because on the Dutch side too there is a lot to be said about. There is a coordinating ruler, but each ministry also has its own lines with the islands. It was six years ago. It has already been said: you have to do something about that. That doesn't really work. It's a secluded way of making policy. But it's just not gonna happen. Mr. Chairman. We are confident that this Secretary of State will actually be entrusted with a solid implementation of this coordinating role. That should also be in the form of some kind of lock. All kinds of funds are available for these islands in various budgets, but they will have to pass through the Secretary of State's office for a while. I'd like to put him in a position of power. In fact, I would like to ask whether the Secretary of State could live with it if we did not make him a dictator in a motion, but a powerful ruler, who fully accepts responsibility. Mr. Chairman. I had another question about the Council of State's opinion, but I'll leave it at that. We'll wait for that advice. Mr. Chairman. I'll summarize my input. Let's go to a marshal's plan for those islands. I've mentioned it before before. In my opinion, only an integrated approach, with respect for the position of these islands, but also with the real will of the Netherlands to provide concrete support, can provide relief. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u67	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u68	Mr President, thank you very much. The islands of which we are discussing the budget today are historically inextricably linked to our Kingdom. We have a responsibility to the islands and to the inhabitants of the islands. Already in 1665, 353 years ago, the West India Company started slave trade. People from West Africa were enslaved, transported as merchandise and landed on Curaçao. That's where they could get stronger. The enslaved were then traded in a place now called Asiento and on plantation Zuurzak, remember that name. The merchants of the West India Company delivered the market at very competitive prices and thus competed with English, French and Portuguese merchants. The enslaved were bought by other merchants and then shipped to various destinations in South and Central America. A relatively small part of the Africans arrived remained behind on Curaçao. Most of these people ended up on one of the plantations. Today, this is beyond our imagination. From left to right we abhor it as a Chamber when degrading situations such as trafficking in human beings are the order of the day. In this light, I would therefore like to step down by saying that as far as DENK is concerned, slavery history and the colonial past are a black page in our history. I ask the Secretary of State to acknowledge this and to apologise formally and openly for it. Times change. Plantage Zuurzak is nowadays renamed Villapark Zuurzak. A luxurious villa area on the Caracas Bay road that offers many recreational opportunities is on the website. Many people on the islands think that the Netherlands still often has a colonial attitude. Mr Van Raak just spoke about it. The way in which and the undertone with which too often our fellow statesmen are spoken strengthens this feeling. The Secretary of State is also accused of these colonial traits, for example when he stood for his litmus test as Secretary of State. This brings me to the drama of Hurricane Irma, when all of Saint Martin was destroyed. The government was so magnanimous to put half a billion euros in an aid fund to rebuild Saint Martin. We congratulated the Secretary of State on this great gesture for the islanders, but the money was not released. The completely destroyed St.Maarten had to meet conditions before it got even one cent for the reconstruction. That's where the colonial attitude is. The feeling is: we have the money, you have to do what we say and if you don't, you get nothing at all. And finally, the 40,000 islanders are the victims of bureaucracy and administration. A year after Hurricane Irma hardly anything has been done about reconstruction. Only 10% of the promised half billion has been spent, the General Court notes. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he will finally speed up to help and support the islanders. And that's what I'm asking how he's gonna do. There are legitimate concerns about the slow release of funds from the World Bank. Does he also think it is slow and does he intend to speed up that process? In concrete terms, I would also like to ask the Secretary of State if he would make it possible to start social projects for the people of Saint Martin from that fund. Mr President, a second point. Last few weeks we heard a lot of hosanna stories about purchasing power in the Netherlands. Everyone's getting better, the government said. But what about the purchasing power on Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba? These are also official Dutch municipalities. Does the government know how purchasing power develops there? I don't think so, because it's not in the infamous CPB models. That is why I ask the Secretary of State if the government is prepared to ask the CPB to develop purchasing power models for the islands. I suspect that these purchasing power cards will not be very positive, because life in the Caribbean Netherlands is becoming more and more expensive. The Electricity and Drinking Water Act BES has increased energy tariffs by 50% alone. More and more people are living in poverty and this does not correspond to the promise made in 2010 that islanders would receive an acceptable level of provision within the Netherlands. Can the Secretary of State respond to that? Mr. Chairman. Then there is a point about the Equal Treatment Act. In the Netherlands, for example, you can complain to the College of Human Rights if you are bullied or accused or excluded on the workplace because you are black or female or gay, but this is not possible at the moment in the BES Islands. Can the Secretary of State consult the islands and the College of Human Rights to see if this can be addressed? Mr President, I see that I am running out of time, but we are going to catch up with another budget. Another point is the National Representative, the person who coordinates between the Netherlands and the Caribbean islands. We find it strange that the Netherlands determines who that is. We would like to ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to give the islands a say in this in one way or another. Mr. Chairman. Since we are talking today about the Kingdom's budget relations, I have a call for our king. King's Day 2019 will take place in Amersfoort, a cozy city in the middle of the Netherlands. Wouldn't it be great if King's Day would take place in 2020 on the islands, in the Caribbean Netherlands, with a festive tour along the islands, along the Dutch municipalities of Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba and along the autonomous countries of the Kingdom, Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin? Then the king would really write history, further consolidate the connection of the European and Caribbean Netherlands and send out a fantastic signal. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u69	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the Court's first term in dealing with the Kingdom's budget relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-23.u70	No settlement is expected anymore. That concludes this meeting.
