ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the budget for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. I would like to welcome the Minister, as well as the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u2	In a budget, a lot of people always register as speakers. In this budget there are a total of thirteen. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Madlener of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for this evening. We have another real Minister of Agriculture. The CDA is also in the government, and the new Minister of Agriculture also turns out to be a charming farmer's daughter, so nothing to worry about, you might say. But in reality there appear to be black clouds hanging over Dutch agriculture and fisheries. The cabinet comes with beautiful sounding plans, but in reality it will be the beginning of the end for many businesses and agricultural entrepreneurs. Over and over again, many parties hide behind fine visions, short-sighted environmental policies, or behind the European Union and the bureaucracy they themselves form part of. It sometimes seems as if the Netherlands and the European Union want to deliberately reduce Dutch agriculture and livestock production. Many new regulations for agricultural entrepreneurs are in practice detrimental to Dutch farmers, with sometimes harsh consequences and bankruptcies for the smaller Dutch family businesses. One of these many lows is phosphate policy. The milk quota was abolished in 2015 and replaced by so-called phosphate rights. Countless dairy farmers were thus greatly disadvantaged, because an unfair system was devised to grant those phosphate rights. To date, no solution has been found to the problems, with very serious consequences, possibly even some cases of suicide by desperate entrepreneurs. The PVV has often drawn attention to a real solution. I would therefore like to hand over to the Minister the latest article by Geesje Rotgers, entitled The Netherlands in the mistake of allocating phosphate rights. It provides a comprehensive and clear description of the problem and a possible solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you. I'll check with the clerk, see if he can hand it over to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u5	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u6	I'll hand it over to the minister through the chairman, as you should.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u8	I would once again appeal to the Minister to have one more personal conversation with the Innovative Action Group from the Knel to come up with a solution. If the Minister is prepared to do so, my question is. I'm actually hoping and counting on a commitment. If there isn't, I'll file a motion. Mr. Chairman. Is it even fun to be a farmer in this country? Isn't administration and control pressure becoming an unworkable whole? It appeared at the beginning of this year that the Chamber has now lost track. In total, the reactions to the irregularities in the I&R system were spasmed and overridden. "The greatest fraud ever" was called by some. Food safety was at risk. 2,100 companies were closed down, the administrative chaos was complete. There was talk in this Chamber of "the greatest fraud ever," but it all turned out to be very overwhelmed and in most cases just to be sloppy. This shows how tight politics is dealing with the agricultural sector. Administrative reality is going to lead its own life that has nothing to do with reality anymore. The suffocating rule pressure has just gone through and the government is failing in this. Mr. Chairman. It is also poignant in poultry farmers. Here, too, entrepreneurs have been overwhelmed by poor government policies and failure to implement them. The Sorgblader Committee's report on the fipronil affair was very clear. Why is the government still not prepared to acknowledge its own mistakes and liability in this matter? Is the Minister finally prepared to compensate those poultry farmers, who were in good faith, or at least partly to compensate for the damage suffered? Mr. Chairman. The PVV wants an animal-friendly agriculture. The plofkip is banned in the Dutch supermarkets and that is a good thing, but the back door is wide open. About 70% of all Dutch meat chickens are puffed chickens, especially for export. The back door is also open due to the fact that a lot of cow milk ip fillet and eggs are imported from Ukrainian megasts, which are often still built with EU subsidies. Here too, we are always calling for attention to be paid to this unfair competition and this animal suffering, which we should not want. What is the Minister going to do about this, we ask for the umpteenth time. And by "shuemelkipfilet," I mean, of course, bypassing Ukraine's regulations by changing the labelling of chicken in large quantities and thus circumventing the rules. The vision of circular agriculture is in danger of becoming an empty shell and does not seem economically well thought out either. We support the desire to use less fertilizer. We've asked for that a lot. But even then, the Netherlands produces even more manure than we use ourselves. If this is properly processed or exported and does not end up in surface water, that is no problem. After all, manure is a very important raw material. But in the Netherlands the manure rules have become very strict, even stricter than the rules for heavy chemical waste, and exports have been unnecessarily complicated and expensive. This way, of course, you maintain the manure problem yourself. At the same time, the European Union is concluding a soy deal with Trump to import more cheap soy. The phosphate balance will therefore be even more negative for the Netherlands. This is to the detriment of Dutch farmers. It runs counter to Dutch policy. Has this deal been discussed with the Netherlands before? What is the Dutch position on this? The European Union is also developing a new common agricultural policy. This, too, threatens to be at the disadvantage of Dutch farmers. Dutch farmers are likely to get less money from the EU subsidy jars, which we pay. European countries seem to be receiving more. Once again, money goes from the Netherlands to Eastern Europe. We pay for our own downfall. The Dutch dairy farmers, among others, have recently warned about the very harmful consequences for the Netherlands. That's unacceptable, isn't it? Is the Minister going to stop this in Brussels? I can guess the answer, but okay, I'll ask again. Then the next example is to bully farmers. It's been a very dry summer. It's been nice weather, but it hasn't rained much. The farmers have suffered damage, especially on the dry sandy soils. The water boards have not been able to supply enough water via the locks and have announced bans on irrigation. Whole harvests are fucked up. This Minister then says: we are not going to meet the farmers, that is business risk. But now it appears that the foreign farmers are being massively supported by their governments. I would like to mention a few countries where the government said that we are going to compensate our farmers for this damage. I call Belgium, Germany, Denmark, Poland and Sweden, all of us around us. They all support their own farmers because of the drought and the Netherlands alone does not. I can't explain other than that you're just ruining your own sector. We are deliberately putting our own farmers behind foreign competition. As always, it is of course the smaller family businesses that are hit hardest again. So again my question: is this minister finally going to stand up for our farmers? Then there are the plant protection products, the pesticides. No one wants them, and neither do we, and so there are ever stricter rules. The Netherlands was also in favour of a ban on arthropods, with the support of the PVV. But what happens in practice? The Netherlands bans it and other countries ask for exceptions and just allow it. So Dutch farmers are not allowed to use it anymore and foreign farmers are allowed to use it. This will once again give us distortion of competition, and that goes on and on in the EU. So our supermarkets are going to be full of cheap products from countries where they can be used. So again we measure with two sizes, of course again at the disadvantage of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you. That calls for an interruption by Mrs Lodders. We agreed to ask eight questions during this debate. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u10	(NL) Mr President, I shall have the courage to do so. This concerns in particular Mr Madlener's last question. I hear a lot of examples where the Dutch farmer is hit. I understand that very much. Some files are also very complex. But when it comes to turnips, I actually hear a two-way story. On the one hand, you are in favour of a ban and, at the same time, you are crying crocodile tears that our farmers, our professionals, are no longer allowed to use that medicine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u11	It has become a kind of principle in the European Union that we have a single market. Of course, we'll take advantage of that. We can sell our products abroad. But there is no single market at all in the production requirements. If the Netherlands is going to be stricter for our farmers than they are abroad, then of course we are going to damage our own sector. What should have been done is to ban turnips all over Europe and not just in the Netherlands. That's the point I want to make here. New rules, which are sometimes very painful for everyone, always end up on the plate of Dutch farmers. It's been going on for years. That's how we're damaging our own sector. It is time for the Netherlands to stand up for this sector and say: The Netherlands is not going to do it alone, we are all doing it. The borders are open, and now our farmers are competing with products that are produced cheaply with satsumas. That's just unfair competition. We are always calling for attention to be paid to this. I hope the VVD will support us in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you. That also calls for an interruption by Mrs Bromet. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u13	It's about... uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... Mr Madlener pretends that we are always the strictest in all of Europe, but in Belgium it is prohibited for private individuals and not here. Does Mr Madlener think that this should also be banned here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u14	I remember when I was an appraiser and real estate agent, I had to value gardeners and that those poison sheds were full of products from Belgium. Everyone's gonna take that. If you ban something in one country and you don't ban it in another, then of course you ask for problems with the border. So it's not convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u15	Just as Mrs. Lodders just said, you're measuring with two sizes. On the one hand, you think there should be less poison. On the other hand, if poison is banned, as in Belgium for private individuals, then you say: they will get it from across the border. I find that contradictory. Let me ask you again: does the PVV also want to ban pedigree for private individuals? That would be worth GroenLinks a sweet thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u16	I believe that Mr Graus has been begging on behalf of the PVV for years to ban. But that's not the point I want to make. Of course, we all want to get rid of as many pesticides as possible. What is at stake here is unfair competition. I want to make that point here. Dutch farmers are put at a disadvantage compared to foreign farmers. This applies to manure policy. That's the case with the... the... the... the... the... the... the... the... the... That goes for so many things. That's what I want to make clear. It is time for the Netherlands to stand up for its own entrepreneurs. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u17	That calls for an interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u18	I wanted to deal with my interruptions carefully, but this has got to be off my chest. Mr Madlener is standing here pleading for the farmers. I'm very happy about that. But at the same time he presents a picture of farmers working on pesticides. I can tell you one thing: farmers do not fight crops, farmers protect crops. You're talking about a level playing field. That starts with recognizing and giving space to our professionals, in the Netherlands but also in Europe, to use these resources in a good way. It doesn't help standing here with these crocodile tears.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u19	What the VVD here calls crocodile tears, that's what I just call hard fake competition and the failure of your party, the VVD, to stand up for our own interests. The VVD is represented in the European Parliament. It is your unelected leaders who sit there and put our farmers at a disadvantage. It's your government that does all that. I've got peasants crying on the floor every day telling me how bad it is. If I look at the dossiers in this way, Dutch farmers are lagging behind, and then any policy proposals always go to the disadvantage of the Netherlands, and then we can pay more to Eastern Europe, and then Ukrainian chicken fillet, produced in a totally unfair way, comes back to the market here. That's the point I want to make here. You can then bring up crocodile tears, but you should answer the argument that the Netherlands does not stand up for its own farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u20	I'd say, what a schizophrenic story. In recent years, the PVV has supported almost all the motions of the Party for Animals that want to tighten the screws in our agriculture and horticulture. So this is going to be the PVV's new policy? Or does Mr Madlener just like the story and will Mr Graus just come and press the vote the other way again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u21	Madam President, I would like to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u22	A point of order. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u23	I spent 12 years doing the LNV budget. Among other things, the better earning model for small family or family businesses came from me. All for the sake of the farmers. We are the only ones who have tried to do something against the neckbeats they are getting from the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u24	What is your point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u25	That is my point of order: that it is simply a lie here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u27	If anyone's stood up for the small family and family businesses, it's been us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u28	Thank you, Mr. Graus. It is not entirely a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u29	I can add here that Mr Graus is always fighting for fair competition. We are talking about unfair competition, including within the EU. That is what I agree with Mr Graus. He's always talked about fair competition. If we are stricter for our farmers than foreigners for their farmers, then we are lagging behind. I hope you can at least agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u30	Thank you. I give the floor again to Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u31	What is happening now, I find a special figure. There are two PVV spokesmen at once, both of whom do not answer the question I am asking them. I'm gonna repeat that one again. What is the real story of the PVV? What is the real voting behaviour? I'm allowed to be a Member of Parliament from 2012. I can only conclude that most of the Party's motions for the Animals are supported by the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u32	I can't do that much with this question. I would like to hear a specific motion for a resolution, and I would like to give you an answer to that. The line is what I want to tell you here. What I hope you will support me in is that we must allow our own farmers to compete fairly. This is not happening in this EU, where the CDA is also widely represented. I constantly see that EU regulation, apart from being suffocating for those entrepreneurs, is unfair. In the Netherlands it is not allowed and in Belgium it is allowed. That's not good, is it? We pay our own competitors in Poland and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u34	Our contribution is going to go up and the farmers in Poland are going to get more. And you're okay with that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u35	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u36	Well, that's the way it is all the time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u37	I can tell.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u38	The next topic is pork. The Netherlands is a huge producer of pork. You never see them, those pigs, because those poor pigs spend their whole lives in a stable with a food silo on them, but the cabinet has figured out that much smaller pig farmers have to leave. Yeah, it's the smaller pig farmers again who'll fall over. A "warm clean-up" they call it. I think the word "warm" refers to the temperature of the foreheads of those small pig farmers who feel compelled to sell or terminate their business. The Rabobank therefore predicts 5% less pigs but 60% less entrepreneurs, i.e. 5% less pigs but 60% less entrepreneurs. So that means a huge increase in scale. So it is again the smaller entrepreneurs who are affected by this cabinet policy. Mr. Chairman. It will be clear that the future is increasingly grim for many farms. There are now so many suffocating rules that, when my son asks me later, "Daddy, how should you become a farmer?', I'm gonna have to answer "son, then you're gonna have to go to law school." So that's what you see in the numbers. The scaling goes on and on. Smaller, often innovative farmers no longer see the future and stop. Less and less children can take over their family's business. More and more farmers are going abroad to be able to do business. I therefore ask the Minister to stop this scaling-up and keep the Dutch countryside viable, especially for smaller businesses and family businesses. Key to this principle is every new policy. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Then I shall move on to fishing, Mr President, because it does not look any better there. The Dutch pulse trawling industry is in danger of being overturned by Europe. The North Sea is built full of windmills. And if there is a hard Brexit, British waters will no longer be fished by Dutch fishing companies. The last IJsselmeer fishermen are chased out of their boats by the environmental movement. Here too dark clouds gather above our fishing tradition. The Minister is showing great commitment, but we are not gonna be able to do it. Hit some tables in Brussels with that Dutch fist! Don't be a good boy. Don't be so slavish. Other countries stand up hard for their interests, but the Netherlands is always the best boy in the class in Europe. Then nature, Mr. Chairman. Here I have a message as we read it about every year; from the moment I learned to read, I can remember that. That is the following message: "Since 1970, the populations of wild animals worldwide have decreased by 60%. The World Wildlife Fund comes to that conclusion in the biennial Living Planet Report on Global Biodiversity. The WNF sees as a reason for the decline the destruction of habitats, including by agriculture." Overpopulation is being carefully avoided as a cause again, because of course that is happening. There's overpopulation in the world, in Africa, you name it. The role of the Netherlands is also a little too rosy. In 2006 I warned here on behalf of the PVV that the Netherlands has environmental policy that is very often bad for the environment. That sounds crazy, but it really is. Take the blending of biofuels and the large-scale use of palm oil, subsidised. A few years ago I also warned here about burning wood in the coal plants. That is also environmental policy and also bad for the environment. But as usual nobody listens to that and the Netherlands continues with it. While the Chamber talks about circular agriculture, the Netherlands is one of the largest importers of palm oil in the world. The supermarkets are now full of food packed with palm oil. Health is different and the consequences for the jungle are disastrous. In the last ten years, palm oil imports have increased by a quarter. That takes a lot of tropical rainforest. I have roughly calculated that an area of 216.000 football fields is now needed to produce palm oil for the Dutch industry. It is cynical that the WNF report says that the Netherlands deserves a compliment because there is more fish in the rivers. But finally, a positive note, Mr President. Because the Netherlands was always good at producing food in an extremely efficient way on relatively small farms, which are still able to compete on the world market. That's good. In this relatively small scale, many families can still earn their living and even more landscape elements can find a place. More wooden walls and flowery fields can adorn the landscape while helping Dutch nature. I hope that the Minister as a farmer's daughter will now really stand up for the Dutch countryside, farmers and fishermen and no longer hide behind the EU. They are your own bureaucrats of your own parties there in Brussels. For now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u39	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Graus of the PVV. I would just like to point out that today we are only doing the first term of the Chamber and tomorrow the sequel. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u40	Thank you, Madam President. I'm upset. I've done it before Mr. Madlener for 12 years. We were always in favour of European cooperation. A better income model for the farmers came from us. We are against suffocating laws and regulations. We were the only ones against all those suffocating phosphate laws and regulations. We were the only party. The farmers are now all getting their necks kicked, as are all the other rules in Brussels. We were the only ones against that. So how dare anyone say that we did not stand up for the farmers? Not for the megas, but for the small family and family businesses we fought like a lion. I've done that myself, for God's sake, in person. I mentioned the story of a better earning model, and that we should not see manure as a waste, but that phosphates are rather scarce substances that bind oxygen to humans and animals. That we're short of phosphates. That we should see manure as the best building, soil and energy dust. That was our story. That was not supported by anyone at first. Now it is, now that it's almost too late and the farmers are all dying. Now all of a sudden we're getting support. Madam President. As an animal ambassador, of course, I would like to talk specifically about the animals. I once went into the Chamber to fight for the rights of animals. I would also like the rights of animals to be enshrined in the Constitution, as my group chairman Mr Wilders has tried to do, together with Mrs Halsema and at the time of the Wilders Group. At least I am now working on an initiative law, which I have prepared. I'm probably going to file it with Mrs. Femke Merel Arissen of the Party for Animals. She has indicated here in the plenary that we may do so together, if all this continues. I hope that can happen soon. It must also be feasible. Otherwise, we are not going to employ all those civil servants who also cost a lot of taxpayers' money. That's why I've had to wait a few years with this. I noticed that the Chamber wasn't ready and then you shouldn't do anything for the stage. That's not how I'm gonna be. I'm very well guarding the citizens' money. So I only come up with something like that when I know that there is a chance of success. Madam President. Animal rights in the Constitution; please respond. I also want prison sentences and towering fines for animal executioners. I've already said that. Why don't you take care of that with the Minister of Justice and Security? Naming and shaming of animal executioners. Take on that animal-related undermining crime, and also dog fights and illegal dog trafficking, with bread breeders who put all those pathetic punks on the market who can't even breathe properly. This has already been achieved in 2010 by the PVV, but little or nothing has been done about it. I hope this minister picks that up. And indeed: prison sentences and a life-long ban on keeping animals for all animal executioners, no matter how much the offence is. They're just proven recidivists. They're sick idiots. If you can do something with a defenseless creature as hypertensive as an animal, you're just crazy, crazy. Then you're crazy, and then you just have to stop keeping animals your whole life. Tomorrow we are going to have a separate debate on the horses in a VAO. The AA, the general consultation, has already taken place. I would like to have a reaction to a report by Dier&Recht from March 2018 on the abuses in the riding stables. I'd like to present that to the Minister in a moment. If my right hand, Mr. Madlener, can give it to you in a moment? Thank you, Mr. Madlener. He's still my errand boy now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u41	That goes through me, the chairman, and Mr Madlener does that very charmingly; thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u42	I'd like a response to that report. If that is possible, preferably for tomorrow, because tomorrow at the VAO it will be possible for the Minister to table a motion in which I ask the Minister to take over all these recommendations and to anchor the 2011 Horses' Decision in legislation. I'll continue with the horses tomorrow, if you'll allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u43	That's fine. I think the Minister will also respond to the report tomorrow. We'll wait for the treatment tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u44	Madam President. There are still problems with the Animal Welfare Team, an elite unit of the NVWA, the Dutch Food and War Authority. Those are real heroes. They also recently found all sorts of abuses at slaughterhouses. The minister should be proud of those people she's in charge of. But there are still problems. There are still a lot of internal issues that lead to discussion. The supervision of veterinarians is still inadequate. For example, the inspectors from the Animal Welfare Team have also found serious abuses that were not directly opposed to them. This has to do with the fact that all these people are classified for the benefit of other problems that are less important than animal cruelty. I'm referring to a derogation or something; with all due respect, but dealing with an animal executioner would be my priority. I hope that is also the case for the Minister. By the way, I've also pulled a lot out of... Will I mention the source before officials are suspected again, because that always happens? The state's attorney's office is targeting slaughterhouses in the north. That's just a public source. That the Minister knows that too, because I notice that every time I say something, a few officials are being called up. I don't think it's right for that to happen. Of course, it does not work that way; moreover, it should. After all, the animal police, officers on the front line, are allowed to talk to me as well. They're not going to be banned. Last year the Animal Welfare Team had to stop, because the hours were up. That's the crazier thing to do, isn't it? We don't live in the Middle Ages. It was also said that only the serious reports could be picked up. A newsletter from FNV shows that there is a great culture of anxiety among veterinarians. Veterinarians have been intimidated at slaughterhouses for decades. And they're afraid to say anything because they're afraid to lose their jobs. It's a disgrace. Let every veterinarian be accompanied by an animal policeman or woman; that's how it ends. Because then someone will intimidate or threaten, then he will get caught with his shoelace, he will go along and the end of practice. In fact, we should remove them directly from the slaughterhouse and give a life-long ban on keeping animals, including private ones. I would ask the Minister as a good keeper of the sheep to ensure that an animal can no longer be impounded as an economic asset by bailiffs. It's crazy. Anyone has a rent debt, well, we'll take the dog. It can't be! Some people are guilty of it themselves, but most come into trouble unexpectedly and unexpectedly. Then you're not gonna confiscate an animal. That's often the last thing they have. I know what it's like to be sad. Then such an animal is some kind of consolation, a last resort you have to survive. Please don't touch that! Why don't you take care of that, Minister, as a shepherd of animal welfare? I would also like to ask the Minister the support she promised and the budgetary commitment (Room 32336, No. 73) in cooperation with the ministries of OCW, VWS, EZK and IenW and, of course, under the direction of the Minister of LNV. Six motions for resolutions have already been adopted in this area. I like to get a reaction. We can get rid of these animal experiments very quickly; it is really pointless. Animals are not representative at all. It's really bullshit that we're testing something else on animals. That's not done. That won't happen again. It has also been promised that this will end as soon as possible. There are plenty of alternatives. I also call on the Government, the Minister in this matter, in cooperation with the Ministries of LNV and Justice and Security, to examine the possibility of placing the ban on animal abuse in the Code of Criminal Law and to clarify vague animal welfare standards. That is still laid down in animal legislation, animal health and welfare legislation, we have the Animal Law, but I want that to go back to the Code of Criminal Law, so that also judges can act better. As far as I'm concerned, there may also be an animal chamber, as well as an animal prosecutor. We've already asked for that once with the SP. Something really needs to happen there. I would also like to ask the Minister, in cooperation with the ministries of LNV and Justice and Security, to give clear substance to animal protection law by laying down animal rights in legislation so that a judge can rely on normative principles. A judge often sits in his hair at the moment. There are also few judges and prosecutors who know about this kind of animal abuse. It's all far too vague, because what is animal cruelty? What is neglect? When can an animal policeman confiscate an animal or not? Animal police have their hands in their hair, like judges and auxiliary officers and prosecutors. It just can't be. There must be normative bases. I'd like a response. Finally, the stable fire prevention plan Stable Safe, which allows animals to flee during a fire. I would like to see a rapid practical test of this, in order to prevent barn fires and thousands of burnt animals every year. I've been asking that since 2010. There is an approved Graus motion for a stable fire prevention plan in cooperation with insurance companies that want to give a discount, the fire brigade, farmers, farmers' organisations and all of them. Do something with that, because we can't have all those animals burned every time. They have to be able to run. Sprinklers often don't make sense, because of that you often get smoke development and then they suffocate before the fire department gets there. So they really need to be able to run. Stable Safe is a system that operates on an underpressure system of the feed silos, allowing the animals to flee. It is quite cheap to build and the farmers get a discount. It can simply be applied in every farming practice and on every farm. I'd like a response to that. Madam President, I have to finish. I would like to ask the Minister to bring the NVWA's specialist animal welfare team, the heroes, the minister's elite team; it is the best that exists at the NVWA's headquarters at the Ministry of Justice and Security. Why? 'Cause those people are getting counterintelligence in their ministry. I can't. They're after recidivists. They're really after the biggest bastards in our country, including recidivists. They should be able to come under the Ministry of Justice and Security. LNV should not be allowed to interfere at all. That ministry shouldn't be able to say, and now you're going on manure business, and now you're going to do this. No, they should be under the Ministry of Justice and Security and are really only dealing with criminal matters. I'd like a response. Madam President, the animal police. The animal police are well up and running. Most people think the animal police no longer exist, but they're even growing. Animal policemen are trained every year. Unfortunately, they have become task accent holder, thanks to D66, but they are still there. Make sure that team can survive, too. Make an effort to do so during the Council of Ministers and continue to lobby the Minister of Justice and Security. They take very serious animal executioners out of society, who also often commit crimes against people. So be ahead of that. We can get ahead of that. Finally. I was with the minister the other day visiting the National Expertise Center for Animal Abuse. Then it was told to me and the minister that Monique Verkerk, the only forensic doctor we have, was not a forensic doctor. It's her by now. Please make sure she gets involved in the LED, because she passed. Then it was rightly said at the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine: she is not a forensic doctor. But now she is, so now there's no going around her. So I want this Monique Verkerk, whom we should be proud of and who is probably the only veterinary forensic doctor in Europe, to be involved in the National Animal Abuse Expertise Centre, which I used to call the National Animal Welfare Expertise Centre. Thank you and a blessed evening, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u45	Thank you, Mr. Graus. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Lodders of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u46	A cheese sandwich and an apple. Mr President, that was my breakfast this morning. Whether it's breakfast, lunch or dinner, our Dutch farmers, gardeners and fishermen provide quality, healthy and affordable food. It seems obvious: the well-stocked shelves...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u47	Sorry, before you start, Mr Graus would like to make a small addition to his contribution. I'll give him the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u48	Thank you, Madam President. I was told by the clerk that the Minister has indeed already sent a response to the report by Dier&Recht on abuses in horse riding. I would like the Minister to take on board the recommendations made therein. I also want the 2011 Horses Decision to be enshrined in legislation. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that. I am saying this for the sake of clarity, so that there are no misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u49	Thank you. Clear, I think. I give the floor again to Mrs Lodders to make a fresh start. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A cheese sandwich and an apple. Mr President, that was my breakfast this morning. Whether it's breakfast, lunch or dinner: our Dutch farmers, gardeners and fishermen provide quality, healthy and affordable food. It seems obvious: well-stocked shelves in the supermarkets, the shop with local produce or the farmer selling fresh milk, potatoes and eggs. And yet it's not. Our farmers, growers and fishermen often depend on circumstances where they have little or no influence. Whether it is the uncertainty about the forthcoming Brexit or about the tensions in the world, the challenge surrounding the climate or the nuisance experienced by some people: it is admirable how farmers, gardeners and fishermen sometimes do their work under difficult conditions, surrounded by uncertainties and sometimes tensions. I would first like to express my appreciation for that. Mr. Chairman. Before looking ahead, we can only look back in the light of the sometimes difficult circumstances. Last year illustrates how unpredictable weather conditions have a major impact on the work of our farmers and gardeners and on the availability of food. Heavy rainfall and flooded plots in spring meant that the potato and onion harvest had already failed in the beginning of the growing season. This was followed by an extremely dry summer with exceptionally high temperatures. Farmers were working day and night to water the crops where they could. Most products have now been harvested, but there was a disappointing yield. Some farmers haven't even been able to harvest. Prices will be higher this year, but it is very doubtful whether this will compensate for the lower returns and efforts at all. That is why I repeat that it is not self-evident that the shelves will be well filled. I think we should think about that more often. Mr. Chairman. A year ago, I was standing here with the proposal to introduce the Farmer's Week, a week in which we express extra attention and appreciation for our farmers and gardeners, a week in which we reflect on where our food comes from. The VVD Group welcomes the Minister's response to this call. At the beginning of October she thanked the farmers in the Week van de Boer with videos by well-known and less well-known Dutchmen. That is quite right. It is an important appreciation of the sometimes difficult conditions in which they have to do their job. Let this be an annual week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u51	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Madlener. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u52	I was just talking to my colleague, so maybe I missed it. I heard Mrs Lodder talking about the dry summer, the squandered harvests and the problems that this creates for farmers. But I didn't hear if she asked the Minister to compensate the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u53	No, I didn't ask you to. Last summer, Mr Madlener saw how I tried, on behalf of the VVD, to provide, at least in terms of legislation and regulation, such space that farmers can act. I'm not gonna ask you something I can't actually fill in on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u54	For a moment I thought: well, that's a nice story from the VVD, because these particular weather conditions are not very common and therefore there is damage to farmers. I have just said in my term that all the countries around us are in tune with the farmers. So I think: now the VVD also comes up with the demand to meet the farmers, but you come up with nothing. And then you called it "crocodile tears" to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u55	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u56	My question is why the VVD does not simply come up with the specific question of doing something for those farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u57	Mr Madlener's question to the Minister is, of course, an empty question, because I have not heard the solution from Mr Madlener. We have been in this house more often than not, and this is not just about the past year, because we have had different extreme circumstances. As a parliament, we have chosen, for example, broad weather insurance. You can and will find what you want, but these are steps that we, as a Dutch Parliament, have taken. Then it is easy to say to the Minister: well, go and compensate. I would like to know from Mr Madlener how he intends to compensate. Because with all due respect: the farmers are not waiting for questions with an empty wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u58	An interruption means that you get a question, but you also ask a number of questions now. So I will give Mr Madlener a little more time to respond if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u59	Yes, I always hear that the VVD wants to be an entrepreneurial party that scatters billions to business, sometimes even foreign business or foreign investors. This is where you completely fail. We are talking about hundreds or thousands of entrepreneurs. They're entrepreneurs too, you know, farmers. And now you come up with a tear-making story about the worst harvest and the drought. I have just done so, but then you come up with nothing, while all the countries around us do. So the VVD drops the Dutch agricultural entrepreneurs hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u60	No, I repeat part of what I said earlier. Last summer, even during the summer recess, we drew attention to this on a number of occasions in order to ensure that there is sufficient room in the legislation and regulations so that farmers can also anticipate the drought. Moreover, it has been shown that this has not been entirely satisfactory, but I have argued in favour of it. In the previous common agricultural policy, we have chosen, among other things, to shape this broad weather insurance. I think we should appreciate that, too. The last thing I would like to say on this point is that, apart from this agricultural budget next week, we are going to talk about the Tax Office and if there is one cabinet that reduces the burden, including for entrepreneurs, then it is this cabinet. I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman. The Dutch agriculture and horticulture is highly regarded worldwide. It is not only the products we market worldwide, but also our knowledge and innovations are an important export product. About 73,000 companies are active in agriculture, forestry and fisheries. Over 100,000 people find their daily work in the greenhouse, on the field or on the water. About 9% of all jobs are linked to the agro-food sector. In recent years, all these people have ensured that a total of EUR 101 billion of products and knowledge have been exported. Important for our economy and therefore important for our prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u61	Thank you. I can see Mr De Groot standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u62	Let me see if this block is over. I have a question about export, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u63	Mrs. Lodders, let me take a look at you. Were you done with the export block yet? I had a feeling you were just making a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u64	Yeah, I'm going to the next paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u65	Thank you. Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I recently spoke to a farmer from Peru who grows potatoes high in the Andes, papas. She has a family and a whole village that benefits from it. Only, where she was suffering from, were these fantastic Dutch export products, which were very nice large potatoes from the Netherlands that came on the market there for 20% below its price. Of course, she also granted these Dutch farmers their exports, just like D66, but what are we supposed to do with such a signal? I think it's pretty serious anyway. How are we supposed to look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u67	Thank you. Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u68	I think that's a rather complicated question. If we want to solve Mr De Groot's problem by telling our farmers and growers that they should no longer export, we are creating a very strange situation in the Netherlands. Of course, you're giving everyone around the world the chance to farm, grow products. I think that a very important point is that the export of knowledge has shifted, that we used to do so less than we do now. So I have to say, we're going to export more and more knowledge. Last year, or two years ago, in the budget, I devoted my story to the export of potatoes and the knowledge surrounding them. We can grow our Dutch potato with about 100 liters of water. Worldwide, this is an average of 290 litres of water. For 1 kilogram of rice you soon need 25,000 liters of water. So let's share our knowledge of how to grow the potato in a good way with the people from Mr De Groot's example. I think there's a lot of chance, space and opportunity for that. But it seems unwise to stop exports. Mr. Chairman. Not everyone appreciates the sector. Some people are bothered in their daily lives. Problems such as greenhouse gas emissions, particulate matter or the decline of biodiversity are quickly attributed to the sector as a whole. And that's not right. Of course, this sector also faces a number of major challenges. Besides producing food, of course, we want to address the problems that exist. The signing of the climate agreements will also have to contribute to agriculture and horticulture. But too often, as a solution to this challenge, we hear that less needs to be done: less agriculture, fewer animals, less choice for consumers. That is not our solution and it cannot be, because the world's population is growing. In the Netherlands, around 2040 we will have about 18.4 million people and 9.5 billion people worldwide. These people all have to eat. Prosperity is also increasing worldwide, allowing more people to spend more on food. The Netherlands can and must play an important role in this. And you can. Then I'm talking about the knowledge we can share.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u69	Mrs Lodders sees it as a heavy responsibility for the Netherlands to feed the world. But the question is: at the expense of what? She also says in her contribution: the loss of biodiversity is too often put on the farmers' plate. Only 80% of the biodiversity in the Netherlands has disappeared. The meadows are poisonous green; there are no more flowers and the number of meadow birds decreases each other for a year. At the expense of what does it want to export and want to be the granary for the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u70	Mrs Bromet should not know from my words that we are the granary for the whole world, because I did not say that. The Netherlands can play a very important role in the world food supply, especially with knowledge and expertise. I am not just putting forward this line this year; I also put it forward last year during the budget. It is precisely our knowledge and innovations that contribute to efficiency and productivity. We cannot ignore it: the world population is growing and people will have to have enough to eat. And that's not at any price.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u71	That is good to hear and GroenLinks also agrees that knowledge can be an important export product for the rest of the world. However, when it comes to climate change, we need to reduce 95% of CO emissions by 2050. Agriculture will have to contribute to this. I said that to some farmers on the Square this morning. Their eyes became huge: 95% reduction of CO! How does Mrs Lodder feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u72	I can respond very briefly to that, because I think I have indicated that. We signed the climate agreements with each other. All sectors, including agriculture and horticulture, must contribute to this. I'm not going to anticipate what comes out of it. There is also a debate on the climate agreement tonight. We all know that the climate tables are working on a further floor, or an improvement, I don't know what to call it. But there's a job to be done, isn't there? I'm not gonna shove it away either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u73	Mrs Lodders paints an image here as if the farmers and gardeners in the Netherlands were producing healthy food for all of us and we would all starve if they did not. But a very important part, perhaps half, goes to the food processing industry. On the other hand, all kinds of experts point out to us, and they warn us, that we do not eat at all as healthy and that we may have to make a choice for indeed healthy vegetables and healthy fruit, for plant proteins and for less food that is not really food but just stuffing, junk, sugar, with for example a hundred kinds of desserts that we don't need at all. Is the VVD in any case willing to make that distinction, between food that is good for us and food that you can regard as a kind of luxury? And then it's actually a luxury with nasty sides, because it doesn't make us healthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u74	Mrs Ouwehand has listened very carefully to my speech, because I have just outlined that people are of course concerned. But let us be honest: sufficient and high quality food is produced in the Netherlands. A number of parties, especially Mrs Ouwehand's party, often respond: less, less, less. Less animals, less agriculture and less consumer choice. It's not our solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u75	I'm not making this up myself. We can feed the world. That's a big job. I suppose the VVD is also in favour of getting the hunger out of the world. There are many scientists and independent rapporteurs and advisers who have said: we will only achieve this if we eat healthier and more plant-based food. So you have to say goodbye to a lot of meat and lots of dairy, and certainly of that shit we don't need. My question is simple: is the VVD willing to acknowledge that? Of course, there are wonderful perspectives that are going to produce that food, so let's look at what we can do together. But that also includes the choice that we do the luxury food, the bad food, a little less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u76	I am almost challenged to have a debate here on food prevention. I do not want to do that, because I believe that this has already been discussed in the VWS budget last week, and it will be on the agenda again in the coming months. That debate will also show that there are many more aspects that can contribute when we talk about health and healthy lifestyles. These are not just the choices made by Mrs Ouwehand. It is also not the choice the VVD makes to ban all kinds of things or to do less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u77	Mrs Lodders will be aware that environmental space in the Netherlands is limited. The agricultural entrepreneurs are sanding against the edges, for example when it comes to phosphate, nitrogen and CO. Should we not then be a little more selective with agriculture in the Netherlands and say: perhaps we should shrink a little in some sectors? Let me give you an example. There are 10 million pigs stuffed with feed imported here. They'll cross the border alive. Would it not be better for those 10 million pigs to be bred in the countries they are going to and for the Netherlands to be selective on those parts of the sector that really create value and add value to this country? In doing so, we are expanding the environmental area for the rest of the farmers. How does Mrs Lodder feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u78	It is a very special choice to say: we will only do less in the Netherlands. As if all those farms that are now working out day in, day out, week in, week out, 24 hours a day, I dare say if we stick to pig farming for a moment, there is no added value for the economy in the Netherlands. It is not for nothing that I have just outlined the figures to indicate that. It is not just about the money, but also about employment, about the people who have jobs in that sector or in the processing of products. So it's a very different, much broader, discussion that you should have. In addition, we will shift the problem if we move production to the countries around us. We have signed the Paris climate agreement with many countries in the world. We're facing a challenge. That's not what the VVD's running away from. We believe that solutions should be sought within the various sectors, wherever the tables are now. That is what we stand for, and that will be quite a challenge. But I am also convinced that, with all the innovations and knowledge we have in this country, we can take good steps in the field of agriculture and horticulture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u79	I don't think I've expressed myself clearly enough. The suggestion contained in Mrs Lodder's reply is one to command farmers to stop their activities. But we just know that a lot of farmers are going to stop in the future. We know there are no successors. Should you not now take the time and opportunity to come up with a gentle clean-up of parts of the agricultural sector? This would allow us to create environmental space and development space for those entrepreneurs who are keen to go through farming in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u80	There's a natural process going on anyway. Farmers who stop, sell their business to their neighbors or to farmers in the area. You can see that's already moving there. My group does not choose to be the first to look at the size of livestock. That is because of the arguments I have just put forward at the first interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u81	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u82	The VVD Group sees in the Minister's agricultural vision important points of departure to shape agriculture and horticulture towards 2030: not less, but different. The VVD sees a circular agriculture that focuses on the use and reuse of raw materials and residual flows. Close to what can and regional or international what should. An agriculture with more attention to soil life, so that minerals extracted for food production can be replenished. Agriculture with a focus on plant health and with less use of fertilizer, because alternatives from manure give the same or better results. Circuit farming is also characterised by precision agriculture where drones give nutrients and plant protection products in the right place. Circulation agriculture contributes to a further reduction of CO and particulate matter. Circulation farming is not the agriculture in which we go back in time. No, we are taking a step forward, where the Netherlands, together with the young farmers and the agricultural entrepreneurs of today, will still be leading food production in 2030. They do so in an efficient way with the maximum possible use of their own raw materials and reuse of residual flows, and energy-neutral. Mr. Chairman. It's a vision with ambition. A vision with ambition requires courage. Fun to give the farmers and gardeners who want to work the space to do so. My group still has some concerns about this, because in what way are we going to remove the obstacles that farmers run into? Whether it concerns the use of residuals, the use of green fertilizer, or the optimal application of animal manure, there are many examples that hinder the closure of cycles, the optimal use of animal manure and good soil practice. I would ask the Minister to draw up an implementation agenda which sets out how she will translate the vision into policy and how she will identify obstacles, how she will involve the research institutes in the questions of knowledge and how she will involve farmers and gardeners herself in the steps to be taken. And perhaps the most important: how will the Minister move Brussels towards more space for innovations needed to close the loops? The first national test will be the review of manure policy. The Minister then has the opportunity to turn her ambition into action. In particular, there are major gains to be made on the nutrient cycle and soil fertility. I look forward to these actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u83	Let me say something about the agricultural vision and the VVD's vision of that vision. Because I recognize a lot of them in what I like. One of the things that is in it is that the current model of production increase and cost reduction leads to scaling up and that this is actually not what we want anymore. Is that how the VVD sees it? In that case, I see a slightly different perspective than the party has had in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u84	I don't know if that's any other than the party's had in the past. Of course, it is important to see if we can actually add that additional price. I know that there are a number of obstacles to this. So there are some really big challenges in this vision. For my party, the most important thing is that we can take some steps quickly. I think there are those: closing the loops, reuse of residues and much better use of fertilizers. Well, then we're pretty much on our way. We may not be talking about an addition on the revenue side anymore, but perhaps rather about cost efficiency at such a company. Of course, Mr Futselaar is aware of the examples that a farmer who has a poultry branch next to it has to dispose of the manure from his poultry farm and then on the other hand he has to pay the bills for the fertilizer. That's crazy, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u85	Sure. There are all measures where we can discuss how, when and when we can introduce them. But there is also a real analysis in the vision why the current system is not sustainable. Then I'll come up with that principle of: "Marges are low. What do you want me to do? Should I expand? Because then I can pay for a new stable, and a loan from the bank et cetera." That's how you're gonna be in that cycle that I think is pretty well described. I ask not only Mrs Lodders whether she sees the possible solutions, but also whether she recognizes the underlying analysis in that agricultural vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u86	I think that one of the important points in this view is that there are a number of significant obstacles, especially in the case of manure legislation. That's why I didn't call it for nothing. The moment you can settle it, you'll help the farmers and gardeners. Look, I am not going to take over Mr Futselaar's words one-on-one, but of course there are a number of challenges there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u87	I am not asking Mrs Lodder to take over my words, but I think they did touch what is in the agricultural vision. Anyway, I just note that different people can read quite different things in the document and that may still be a problem in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u88	That is why I am asking for an implementation agenda in which, in the short term, we are simply getting a little more clarity as to what direction it should take, especially when it comes to defining policy but certainly also when it comes to determining the research mandates. And they'll be needed, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u89	I do share Mrs Lodder's concern about how to translate a vision into a concrete practice. She calls for an implementation agenda. We have set up a whole process at an adjacent ministry, under the direction of a ruler who is also from the VVD house, to bring together all kinds of stakeholders, to remove those parties from the shooters' pits and to see that you can jointly create such an agenda. That is the climate agreement in the pipeline. All the limitations that are attached to it will be dealt with later tonight. But does Mrs Lodder see salvation and meaning in such an approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u90	Thank you. As you said yourself, there is still a debate on climate tonight, if that is all right. But I would like to give Mrs Lodder the floor to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u91	But this is about circular agriculture, Mr President. I want to set up the same process there as before the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u92	Thank you. Clear. Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u93	Mr Moorlag is working overtime today with another debate this evening, if I am not mistaken. Mr. Chairman. I think we can actually do a bit faster here, as there is already a vision. I think it is just very important that we should have that implementation agenda in a reasonable time, and as far as I am concerned it is sometime at the beginning of next year. It should state what steps we are going to take. At the time when we were going to reach a circular agreement or an agricultural agreement, Mr Moorlag has already argued in favour of it. I think we are going to lose another year, and that would be a shame. I don't think that's necessary either. Mr. Chairman. Another point I would like to address is the Dutch Food and Consumer Protection Authority. My group has been concerned about this organisation for a long time and we have seen a number of persistent problems before. In some cases, this had serious consequences: insufficient analysis of identified shortcomings and no incentive to keep the costs of the organisation low and thus pass the costs on to the business community one-on-one. We are also concerned about the risk assessment which should lead to risk-based monitoring. In the case of new products, for example, insects for human and animal consumption, it often takes a very long time before it is clear which conditions have to be met. And it is not clear to what extent risk-based supervision has these new products in mind. Mr. Chairman. The Buro...................................................................................................................................................................................................... In doing so, this agency has an influence on policy. It also works out policy rules. My group is of the opinion that the development of policies and the development of policy rules does not belong to the NVWA. As far as the VVD is concerned, this belongs to the various trade ministries. The NVWA must deal with the supervision, in accordance with the rules laid down by the Ministry. My group realizes that this is a significant change of course, but we see sufficient indications to use this change of course. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she recognizes and shares these signals and, if not, what arguments she has to make policy making and the drafting of policy rules take place by the NVWA. I will certainly come back to this in the second term. Mr. Chairman. I already mentioned the costs of the NVWA that are passed on to the business community. My group has repeatedly called for attention to be paid to this issue too, in the case of various members of the government. The NVWA has no incentive to keep costs low due to its cost structure and the system of charging costs to the business community. We have seen this recently in the proposal for the merger of two laboratories, with structural costs rising. In a previous debate, the Minister promised that these costs would not be passed on to business, but it is not possible for business and for us as a Chamber to control this. My group is looking for an instrument or an incentive to ensure that the NVWA itself wants to keep its costs low. Can the Minister answer that? On this point, too, I am considering returning in the second term or tabling a motion. Finally, Mr President-in-Office, I see the red letter that I have to conclude. I would like to ask the Minister for an up-to-date state of affairs in the phosphate dossier. Can the Minister state what progress has been made on the settlement of the objections and developments concerning the beef and veal sector? A response to the article from V-focus has already been requested by Mr Madlener, but I would like to ask the Minister in particular whether he would like to comment on the concern it raises about breeding and exports. Mr President, as far as I am concerned, and again, I began by thanking the farmers who take care of our food every day around the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u94	Thank you. There is, however, another interruption by Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u95	I waited until the end of the speech, because I actually expected the VVD to address two points for which it is always strong: 'a deal is a deal' and 'we are not going to spend tax money'. I have two questions about that. The first concerns the warm clean-up of pig farming. That's where 200 million taxpayers' money goes, and I'm missing the analysis. Does the VVD have any idea how it happened that it is now necessary to clean up in those areas? The second one is about "a deal is a deal." By the end of 2018, piglets mortality in pig farming should have been reduced to 10.5%. We're almost at the end of 2018. I don't have the impression they're here. What conclusion will the VVD draw if this goal is not met?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u96	First of all, the warm clean-up. We've been talking about that route for a long time. In the coalition agreement this agreement was made. I think that Mrs Ouwehand should be particularly pleased that there is money available for this. I think Mrs Ouwehand would have liked to use that differently. It may be based on an analysis that we are taking this step now, but the fact is that this is what we are going to do. With regard to piglets' mortality, I do not think it is as simple as it was outlined, as if we could turn a button to adjust it. I think everything must be done to try to achieve that target, but it is a little too easy for me. I would therefore like to cite another example: reducing the number of barn fires. I think we'd like to see that, too. But I would also like to give Mrs Ouwehand a thorough analysis of the cause. Also, we cannot just turn a button. You may ask the question, but I am not going to commit to a ruling on what we do if we don't make it. The most important thing for my group is that the effort is being made, and I can see that in any case in the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u97	First, on the issue of piglets mortality. I would remind the VVD that the note of the second purple cabinet was written by Mr De Groot, or Minister Brinkhorst, but the VVD was in it. She was in that cabinet. The VVD was then in favour of a policy that it is undesirable to breed on features that lead to welfare deficiencies and said that we would stop that. The problem with piglets' mortality is that they have been overgrown. The sector has had ten years to bring that back. Does the VVD really say: what we then supported under Purple II we forget, and even after ten years of non-binding efforts by the sector we do not yet draw any conclusions if we do not achieve the goal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u98	Mrs. Ouwehand here suggests that this is turning the button. Farmers work with live cattle. I see efforts are being made. I think we should especially appreciate that. At the same time, we are focusing on animal welfare. We have regular debates on this. The requirements are also being tightened. But again, it's not a button you can just turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u99	My question is what happened to the VVD. I have a letter for me from Minister Van Aartsen. He said in 1996: "It's very nice, there's a plan of LTO's approach. I don't see any improvement a year later. Within a year of results, otherwise there will be just legal measures." That was the VVD back then. Now Mrs Lodders says that the VVD is now: for ten years crippling pigs and if we haven't managed to reduce that little bit, we still don't think we can intervene. And thank you... My second question concerns the restructuring of pig farming. I'd really like that analysis anyway. The Animal Party has always said that new permits are not useful. Now 200 million have to go to that rehabilitation, but there is no analysis of how that situation has gotten out of hand and there is no guarantee that it will not happen again. Is the VVD prepared to at least ask the Minister for that analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u100	In view of this question, Mrs Ouwehand will ask for that analysis. So that's what I'm waiting for the answer to. The reason we took this step? I would say in the direction of Mrs Ouwehand: count your profits. As far as the death of pigs and the like is concerned, that is an image that I really do not take over from Mrs Ouwehand. Our animals are being handled very carefully in livestock farming. That may not be the way Mrs Ouwehand would like to see it, but I really want to distance myself from the image that is being put here, as if pigs are machines and pigs are dying. Really, on the contrary. I'm not gonna be a part of that statue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u101	Thank you. Your sixth question, Mrs Ouwehand. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u102	You can say you're not in on it, but could Mrs. Lodders please describe here how those pigs die there? Can she confirm that animals are being beaten to death against the wall? Does she think that's a humane way of killing defenseless animals? Mrs. Lodders can confirm that there is no veterinarian coming to relieve a piglet that is not going to make it, painlessly from his suffering? If so, she must provide the evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u103	I distance myself from the fact that livestock farmers are all beating pigs to death against walls. If that is the case, it is unacceptable and we must act on it. So if that's found out, tackle the trade. But here we create the image that every cattle farmer does his work in this way, so we really do all those people more than short with heart and soul, 7 days a week, 24 hours a day and the year around with their cattle. So I'm not going to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u104	Thank you. Mr Futselaar was a bit earlier on the interrupting microphone, but I have the feeling that Mr Graus is quite ready for it. I understand now that Mr Futselaar has another point. I shall now give the floor to Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u105	Mrs. Lodders just said she's not familiar with the cause of barn fires. But the Animal Party and the PVV have been trying since 2010, and even before, to put that file on the agenda. These fires are very often caused by gnawing, plagues and plagues, and also very often by not-good electricity and that kind of thing, or by a heat lamp flying into the fire. Do I understand correctly that Mrs Lodders, who, I think, has been spokesperson LNV for eight years, doesn't know where a barn fire came from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u106	Oh, yes, I do. Fortunately, in the coalition agreement, we have also put forward a number of proposals which we need to work on, because Mr Graus' analysis is right. Pest control is one of the things we are lagging behind in, because farmers are no longer allowed to control pests in and around the stables. I think that's a very important cause. We need to do something with that. In the stables of 20, 30, 40 years ago, you saw much less automation. So I think that the short-circuiting of automation is a consequence of the development of livestock farming. I'm not happy about that, because I get pain in my belly when I see the footage. In the interruption I indicated that it is sometimes suggested that it is a matter of turning the button and that we can reduce the number of barn fires. I don't think it's that easy to fix. We have to use all the energy we can to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u107	Because it will continue to occur as long as the homo sapiens exist, we will have animal cruelty and also stable fires, which is not always done directly by willful animal cruelty. Will Mrs Lodder at least support me in putting into practice the flight programme, the Stable Safe system that allows animals to flee in the event of a fire? Neither does Mrs Lodder, and I do not understand that. "Prevention as the best biocidal product" is the words of Dr. Weijman, our pest and pest expert, the best in Europe. He says, "You can beat it to it." You don't have to kill so many animals, you don't have to kill plagues and plagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u108	Yeah, you can beat it to it. Prevention is always very good, so you'll always have to bet on it. I think Mr Graus visits stables as often as I do. He also knows that the mess, the food, feed residue and such vermin attract. The moment they arrive, as a farmer, you must have the tools to fight them, otherwise you will really have these problems. Secondly, the system which Mr Graus has often advocated. I think there have been a number of test settings. I think it's really up to the barn builders to put up a test setup. By the way, we have also had this debate before, and it is not the case that animals run away from the sea of flames. I've been able to see animals fleeing into the flames a little closer to the misery myself. We do not need to discuss this here, because that is another very different subject. But that too is not easy, I say to Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u109	And that again differs by species. I have just had Mrs Lodder's comment addressed to me about policy rules at NVWA and that the NVWA should not make them on its own. I would like to ask for an explanation of this, not because I do not agree with it, but because I do not yet have it completely. Should I imagine that it goes so far that a NVWA inspector who enters a stable should only be allowed to maintain what is accurately laid down at the inch in legislation we are making here? Because then we still have something to do in the production of rules. Or does Mrs Lodder mean it only on another level? I'm struggling a little with what she's trying to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u110	I am very pleased with this question from Mr Futselaar. It is clear that it is a change of course and also one that you have not realized from today to tomorrow. That's exactly what makes it difficult. You can now see that the NVWA itself develops policies and policies. I mentioned very briefly the example of new activities in the Netherlands. People produce insects for human consumption that they may want to export. I've spoken to a number of entrepreneurs. They have been waiting two and a half years for clear laws and regulations to come from the NVWA and to be checked by the NVWA. When it comes to human consumption, I think it really belongs to VWS. When it comes to animal feed, it belongs to LNV. When we look at the number of discussions, we have talked very recently about the chlorine agent. I think it was Mr Futselaar who asked questions about this. There too, I think that there is far too much at the NVWA in the whole case: ask for advice, but take over, not take over. No, I just want a clear explanation from the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport, especially the Public Health branch. They must indicate what can and cannot be done. For example, advice from the RIVM sided with them and a different angle was chosen. It'll take too long. That really belongs to the trade ministries. So that I was I mean. Sure, you always run into checks in practice, you always run into "hey, can this be done, can't this be done?" Yes, you also want to have it practically arranged, but designing policies and drawing up policy rules I think belongs to the trade ministries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u111	Thank you. You've spoken through all the interruptions for almost 45 minutes, so well maintained. I would very much like to give the floor to Mr Weverling of the VVD. I suggest that after his input we suspend for dinner break. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As my colleague Mr Lodders said, we should be proud of our farmers, growers and fishermen. They make sure we have food every day. Without the fishermen in the North Sea no fish in the pan, without the growers in the Westland no tomato in your salad and without the farmers in Friesland no piece of meat on your sandwich. Even though these groups provide a variety of products, they have one thing in common: their commitment to an increasingly innovative sector. Innovation is in the genes of all Dutch farmers, gardeners and fishermen. The scope for innovation should be promoted by public authorities and not countered. It is therefore also up to the cabinet to create the right situation for this, both in our own country and in Europe. Because how frustrating is it for entrepreneurs to be countered by European regulations? Moreover, it hampers the sustainable progress of sectors and thus of society. Mr. Chairman. So many introductory words. I'm going to focus on a number of important areas. Dutch horticulture is world-leading and famous for its closed, sustainable and circular cultivation system. Last year the VVD asked attention for the innovative Dutch greenports. These are the area clusters of the Dutch horticulture sector. This sector offers solutions to global challenges and focuses on where we want to be in a few decades' time. In order to retain the important role they now have in the coming years, new methods, such as sustainable heat and CO supply and the use of geothermal or geothermal heat, will have to be used. Further modernisation of the crop area, working on biobased solutions, working with resilient crops and healthy plants and the circular economy are also of great importance for the sustainable and innovative development of greenport clusters. As a result of our greenportmotion, the Minister recently wrote to the Chamber that she is working proactively on a horticultural agreement, an implementation agenda and various discussion tables. We welcome this and thank the Minister for this approach. Can the Minister state the time limit within which it intends to conclude a horticultural agreement? Mr. Chairman. Agriculture and horticulture is nothing without the innovative Dutch seed processing sector. The seed growers have to deal with obstructive regulations through a ruling by the European Court of Justice. In order to keep the seed production sector successful, but more importantly, in order to achieve a more circular agriculture, it is important that the Cabinet should work to keep new methods, such as CRISPR-Cas9, out of GMO regulation. Our food system depends on proper regulation and it usually takes years before a new breed can be introduced. The first step is therefore to create urgency in Brussels and in other Member States. This morning in the Volkskrant, the Minister spoke positively about the future of CRISPR-Cas. I would also like to invite the Minister to share her position with our Chamber in the first place and at the same time explain to us how she intends to manage in Brussels that the CRISPR-Cas technology will be implemented and we will not lag behind. How does the Minister intend to deal with this in Brussels? The ruling of the European Court of Justice is also detrimental to our climate of establishment. The Netherlands has traditionally been a country with many seed breeding companies and therefore a lot of knowledge about it. Can the Minister explain whether she has received signals from companies in this sector that would like to leave the Netherlands or the EU because of this ruling and, if so, what can she do about it? Mr. Chairman. New, improved plant varieties are important for food security. The plant variety right is important for the development of new varieties of plants. Knowledge sharing is also of great importance here. In last week's letter on plant variety rights, the Minister writes: "In recent years, the financing of these additional tasks has come under pressure. (...) between the parties, in accordance with the advice of the Audit Service, I will restore the financial level to sufficient level from 2019." End of quote. I've shortened it a little, as you can see. Can the Minister explain what she means by "bringing these finances to a sufficient level"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u113	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u114	I'm going back to CRISPR-Cas9 and the interview. Mr Weverling asked the Minister to explain this in the first place. I would really like to ask you not to do that. Because I don't like reading news from the paper. I suggest we all wait for a decent policy letter and then talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u115	Mr. Chairman. I would like to address another major task for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u116	You're talking about your own words. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u117	Sorry. I shall continue with my speech, because I saw it more as a point of order from Mr Futselaar. Excuse me. I like to go into the green cities. The combination of buildings and greenery, especially in urban areas, is of great importance. Climate change makes it warmer and wetter in cities. That requires clever solutions. In addition, green provides oxygen, cooling, and waterbuffering, and stimulates biodiversity. In addition, green is good for the well-being and health of people. Is the Minister prepared to discuss greening cities and villages with other ministries, provinces, municipalities and perhaps even water boards? Greening cities can also play a role in stimulating food production closer to citizens. The VVD therefore wants to further focus on the concept of "feeding and greening the cities." Is the Minister prepared, in the context of our internationalisation strategy, to examine, together with her foreign trade colleague, the possibilities for bringing this concept to the fore worldwide? In this context, the world garden exhibition Floriade 2022 in Almere is a great time to highlight the concept of "feeding and greening the cities" and to work on example projects. Optimal cooperation between state authorities and municipalities is very important here. At the Floriade, all this comes together. Moreover, it remains a permanent green city of the future even after the expo. The VVD is therefore pleased that yesterday there was a letter in which work is being done on the collaboration with Almere. The VVD would like to stay informed about the future cooperation of the Ministry with the organisation of the World Expo Floriade. I have three questions for the Minister. Can she explain the exact nature of her appointment with Almere? When did the Floriade in Almere pass the cabinet? They should not be alone; when will the cabinet be satisfied with this expo in 2022? And can the Minister undertake to inform the Chamber annually about the progress of the innovative projects and the related finances, so that we can monitor them? Mr. Chairman. One more topic on green and nature. During the AO Nature this year I asked for a plan of approach to improve the position of the green boas in the Dutch nature reserves. Due to increasing recreational pressure, but more importantly, increasing crime in nature areas, they lack eyes and ears. The plan of action sent to us yesterday is a good start, but far from complete as far as we are concerned. As far as I am concerned, it is still a concept and the Minister is going to talk to nature organisations to give the green boas the recognition they deserve. Green boas have to do with understaffing, too close to the police and too little good communication. There is a need for more capacity, more training budget and better equipment. It is also a matter of principle who is responsible for monitoring and enforcement in nature reserves. Is that the landowners and nature managers or is that the government? And who's gonna pay for the cleanup? It can't be that nature organisations have to pay for this themselves, can it? Is the Minister prepared to come up with a plan of action that has actually been drawn up together with nature organisations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u118	As far as these green boas are concerned, a boa is no longer capable of dealing with the growing crime. We have had a hearing here in the States General which showed that in Brabant the green boas and also the animal police are no longer able to make it. They even had to use arrest teams there against organized serious crime and poaching in the woods and fields. My question to my colleague, Mr Weverling, is therefore why he does not support us in relation to the animal police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u119	Thank you. Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u120	A boa can't stand that. They have no police or criminal jurisdiction. They don't have the right weaponry. You can't use those people against organized crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u121	Thank you. Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u122	As far as we're concerned, using green boas goes far beyond the animal police. I went with both of them. With the animal police, that was before the summer. They do very impressive work and really come to people's homes. The green boas are often employed by nature organisations. They are the eyes and ears in the nature reserves. That's really different from the animal police. But both are just very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u123	That's bullshit. I'm sorry, but I co-founded the covenants with Mr. Opstelten. When the animal police got there, we wrote a memo. The covenant states that the animal police may interfere with all animals: wild animals, farm animals and pet animals. It's bullshit what's being said here. A green boa is not up to the growing crime or poaching. Boas are not up to that, they do not have the right powers, and they do not have the right armament for that. Come on, Mr. Weverling, grow up in this and please support us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u124	Mr. Weverling. It's a repeat, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u125	It is also about waste dumping of ecstasy. It's also about vice. For me, the green boa is not the only party in that, but certainly not the animal police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u126	A fine plea by Mr Weverling about greenery in the city and more biodiversity. That's what it's all about in the end. Green in the city is also important for recreation, for clean air. Can I understand the VVD Group in such a way that it is now also in favour of nature-based construction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u127	I do not know what exactly Mrs Dik-Faber's definition is on that, but it seems to me to be a good starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u128	I really love to hear that. Nature-inclusive building is about designing your new buildings or renovations in such a way that bats, for example, can get a spot, or other special animals. They can sometimes be under pressure because of the built environment. So I am simply very pleased with these words from Mr Weverling and I welcome the new direction of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u129	Let us see if Mr Weverling recognizes himself in the definition that is now being expressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u130	Well, I remember from my time as alderman that bat colonies prevented homes from being demolished and new buildings could be built, because those bats were there. So I'm a little more critical of that. But of course, I understand your interpretation. As far as we are concerned, we need smart solutions. On the contrary, we must encourage greenery in cities. We have a lot of green outside the cities, but this is also important within the cities, especially with the changing climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u131	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u132	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I'm on my way to fishing. Despite the fact that the Dutch fishing industry is also very innovative, the sector is in a complex situation. This has a major impact on fishermen and their families. The VVD believes that the government should make every effort to prevent a ban on pulse fishing, to ease the landing obligation so that excess by-catch does not have to be poured with red paint, for example, and to ensure that the interests of fishermen are taken into account when placing windmills in the North Sea and that multifunctional use of these wind farms is taken into account. Does the Ministry of LNV have sufficient position in the discussion about the offshore wind farms? That is my question to the Minister. Does the Minister consider that sufficient action is being taken to safeguard the interests of fishermen and nature? Mr. Chairman. The Dutch fisheries sector is underutilising the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, the EMFF. This was also noted by the General Court of Auditors. How can we make the EMFF more attractive for the sector to use? And can the Ministry provide support to the sector so that more money is available for innovative fisheries projects? Finally, the issue of the motion-Weverling c.s. widely adopted on 4 July 2017, which notes that improvements are possible in the information process of budgets and annual reports from the Ministry to the Chamber. With this motion, we aim to obtain more information on the progress of policies and policy changes, and to make it easier to understand the relationship between the objectives, performance and means of policy and the effects of policies pursued. This was not yet possible for the 2019 budget. Can the Minister undertake to pay attention to this for the 2020 budget and to work with performance indicators? Mr. Chairman. At first sight, the House of Representatives, the cashiers, fishermen's quarters and the farmhouse are far from each other. But if you think about it, they're very close together. We, here, have the opportunity to give our farmers, growers and fishermen the tools they need to continue to innovate, in order to respond to global challenges. That is what the VVD stands for and we will continue to fight for these groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u133	I see an interruption by Mr Moorlag. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u134	What is at the heart of this motion is that this tax money is being spent efficiently and effectively and that it is also transparent for the Chamber. In this policy area, tax facilities account for about double the budget budget. Does Mr Weverling agree with me that we should also have a little more insight into the effectiveness and effectiveness of these tax facilities, also in the light of the fact that there will be a policy change at LNV, in the sense that the concept of circular agriculture should be rolled out in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u135	Mr. Chairman. What we intended at the time also had to do with the Ministry of EZK. That's split up now. What is at issue is the classification of, among other things, the budget, but in particular the performance indicators. In my opinion, there is a kind of indicator that the number of members of a nature organisation is a kind of measuring point whether or not it is going well. I would have liked to have looked at that, because that feels a bit like a weak indicator to know if your nature policy is good, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u136	Mrs Lodders of the VVD Group just called for an implementation agenda for circular agriculture. Would it not therefore be appropriate not only to assess the resources directly devoted to them but also the tax facilities on the basis of performance indicators for such an implementation agenda for circular agriculture?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u137	My colleague, Mr Lodders, has told us a great deal about our vision of circular agriculture. That question would have fit in very well with that. She's also the tax spokesperson. I think that question would fit very well with that debate, Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u138	Thank you. We're gonna suspend for dinner. I propose that we proceed with the debate at 7.50 p.m. Then we'll start with GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u139	The next item is the budget for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. There have already been a number of Members, and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u140	Mr. Chairman. In my first week as a Member of Parliament, just before the summer, I wrote on Twitter: GroenLinks wants to be the partner of farmers who want to be sustainable. I was gladly surprised by the many farmers who invited me to their farm following this tweet. During the recess I visited a lot of farmers. No farmer was the same. I was with farmers and farmers and with old and young farmers, and I travelled from Brabant to the far north of the Netherlands, Schiermonnikoog. The farmers proudly showed me their business, talked about their love for their trade and showed what they thought was good for their business and society. One thing they all said: we want to know what we're up to. The agricultural policy of recent years has not been consistent. Successive ministers and Secretary of State poured out policy on the farmers, but few knew where they were going. The milk quotas were abolished, there was an Action Plan Vitalisation Pig farming, chaired by Ed Nijpels, a SER committee wrote a report on sustainable livestock farming, which was put in a drawer by this cabinet, and phosphate rights were introduced. And the peasants, they continued with peasants. There is something else the farmers all said when I visited them: we want to be appreciated. The food scandals that occurred in recent years did not do the farmers any good. Q fever, insect mortality, fipronil, a new stable fire and manure fraud every week: the farmer had bad press. One farmer I spoke to said: I do not need more cows, I am happy with what I have and I enjoy most of the walkers who compliment me with the many gruttos on my land. Here in the Chamber, the debate went along predictable lines, with CDA and VVD on one side of the spectrum, arguing that they were in favour of the farmer, and the Party for Animals on the other. Everyone looked forward to the vision of Minister Schouten. Valuable and Connected, she had called that vision. The banks reacted positively, Natuurmonumenten was pleased with the vision, LTO felt that the minister had the right course and even Greenpeace was happy that the minister faced reality. That reality is, and GroenLinks wholeheartedly agrees with the Minister, that current agriculture in the Netherlands is not sustainable. Because anyone who doesn't see the problems we face is blind. 80% of Dutch biodiversity has disappeared. Islands are green as grass and no flowers bloom anymore. Insect populations are frighteningly decreasing. And even the decline of our national bird, the grutto, is not reversed. It is good that the Minister says that it can no longer be done, that agriculture as it is today has become untenable. But that almost everyone responded cheerfully to the vision gives to think. It should also make us suspicious. Because what does it say when, in a very polarized field of forces, everyone suddenly gets excited? The starting points are good, but there is no concrete impact. Without having any idea of the consequences, everyone can support the vision. It will only become apparent from the results that painful choices will also have to be made. If the principles of the vision are taken seriously and everyone really thinks that nature, the environment and the climate should no longer be the victims of agriculture, this is a huge revolution. For GroenLinks, the Minister's vision is: fewer animals, a better income for the farmer and a nature that does not suffer from agriculture. There are no concrete proposals on any of these three points. The first point, less animals, is carefully avoided in the vision, while everyone knows that agriculture in the Netherlands is untenable, among other things, because of the far too large numbers of animals. Nor can I imagine what a circular agriculture looks like with these huge quantities of cattle kept in large stables in the Netherlands. Can the Minister explain that a little bit more? Mr. Chairman. We face major challenges in the Netherlands, but the good news is that there are also good solutions. The problem with this cabinet is that it is a taboo cabinet, with a taboo on mileage tax, a taboo on the closure of coal power stations and, yes, a taboo on the reduction of livestock. Even after the appearance of the agricultural vision, the world does not stand still. The vision is nowhere related to the climate agreement's concept agreements and to what the BBL calculations say about this. GroenLinks wants that effect. The farmers are asking for clarity. Then give them that too! And be honest too, because for some farmers this may mean the end of their business. And be clear for a long time. The farmers have had enough of going in a different direction every time. I spoke to some farmers at the Square this morning. Their eyes grew when they heard that CO emissions had to be reduced by 95% by 2050. They really have no idea what that will mean for the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u141	I'm gonna focus on reducing the livestock. Of the 200 million, the cabinet spends 120 million on reducing the pig population, because there are over 1 million pigs. Isn't that the shrinking of livestock? Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u142	Yes, and that is also something GroenLinks is very happy with. However, we think that this is only the beginning of the much greater reorganisation that must take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u143	It is also a very expensive measure, because if we are going to do what GroenLinks wants, so cleaning up the livestock in that way, you need a multiple of that amount. That is precisely why we need to move on to circular agriculture. Then I am all the more surprised that you say that it is a taboo for this cabinet to reduce livestock. Apparently, that's not taboo. You do not spend a penny in your own budget to make that possible, so I find the criticism in this way very easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u144	It is often said that livestock farming has problems because, for example, there is no follow-up. You could say it's an opportunity. There is no mention at all in the vision of the discussion with the sector about the enormous changes that need to be made. GroenLinks would like us to work with the sector to see how we can do this rather than deny that there is a problem. 'Cause this is really at the door. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks would much rather show that the cabinet shows leadership and talks to the farmers about the reduction of livestock and how it can be accompanied by as little pain as possible. That is better than sticking the head in the sand and pretending that the current livestock sector can continue as long as you call it circular farming. Like the VVD and the PvdA, GroenLinks wants a concreteisation of the agricultural vision, one that lasts longer than the next two years of this cabinet. GroenLinks wants a policy that can count on broad support, including in the next cabinet periods in which other parties will form the government. We would like to hear from the Minister how and when she will produce the results. GroenLinks reaches out to the cabinet. We want the Minister to conclude an agricultural agreement with farmers, nature organisations and other interested parties before the summer, which also includes the agricultural climate charts. Then there will be an effect which can also be borne by future Cabinets and which will give farmers clarity. In the second term, we will make a proposal for this together with the PvdA. GroenLinks, of course, also has ideas about the new agriculture. This summer I was with the farmers on Schiermonnikoog, an island in the Dutch top nature, an island where seven farmers have their existence. Nature on the island suffers from agriculture. The farmers themselves see that, but they want to stay. They realize that this can only be done by adapting. They decided not to choose quantity anymore, but quality. They have no fun watching the milk truck leave every time without knowing where their milk ends up. They do not want to produce for the world market. They will therefore reduce their livestock from 650 to 430 dairy cows on their own initiative. They start their own Schiermonnikoog dairy line. To start their milk and cheese factory, they need a little financial support. We have tabled an amendment to regulate this, not only for the farmers of Schiermonnikoog, but precisely to learn from this project which could be an example for many other farmers in the Netherlands, a model example of circular farming. I would like a response from the Minister to this amendment. A second proposal, which I will make in the second term, concerns the reduction of nitrogen fertilizer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u145	On the amendment tabled by Mr Bromet of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. I take it from that that an attempt is being made to create an alternative model of earning in order to bring about the shrinkage of livestock. I see Mrs Bromet nodding, so I am on the right track and I interpret it well. Then I wonder if the agenda of GroenLinks is that food can only be produced for our own inhabitants in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u146	Not necessarily, but GroenLinks believes that there should be no place in the Netherlands for bulk production. So it is for quality production but not for the bulk. GroenLinks does not think that there is a need to produce for the market of China. Rather, we see that farmers' incomes can improve if they do not have to compete with countries that have much more favourable opportunities to produce, with lower wages and larger areas of land and where they have to keep up that race to the bottom. We choose quality products and a better price for the farmer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u147	I think we're going to have a few more debates on how that earning model will be improved, but at least I conclude that GroenLinks is wearing the export model that Holland has this evening. That's one. I also read in the amendment, and Mrs Bromet herself also points out that those dairy farmers go from 650 to 430 animals. That amendment also states that it may only be a loan and that the livestock must not grow during and after the loan period. If this experiment goes wrong, what do you say to these dairy farmers? Because they can't go back to their original number of animals. Actually, it's just over with these dairy farmers if this experiment doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u148	That is precisely why I should like this amendment, because I think it is a very good plan that farmers have and I would also like it to succeed because it can be an example, an illustration of the fact that what is argued in Minister Schouten's view can also become a reality. It would be terrible if it failed, because that would not only mean that this experiment fails, but also that the whole circular agriculture is an idea fix. A second proposal, which I will make in the second term, concerns the reduction of nitrogen fertilizer. In circular agriculture, ideally, no fertilizer is needed anymore. GroenLinks wants a levy on nitrogen artificial manure. The Minister announced that she would review manure policy in 2019. Our proposal could be taken into account. A third idea that deserves attention in the eyes of GroenLinks is the increase in groundwater levels in peat meadow areas. A third of the Netherlands has peat as its soil. They are the green meadows with the locks that the Netherlands is so famous for. Soils fall due to low groundwater levels and emit a lot of CO. In the draft climate agreement, increasing water levels is one of the major solutions mentioned to reduce CO emissions. A higher level of water is also good for water storage and biodiversity, but also means a lot for the management of the farmers in the peat meadow area. In spring 2019, I will send the Chamber my initiative paper Versatile peat, in which I will come up with proposals to preserve the peat, save the meadow bird and continue to provide the farmer with an income. Mr. Chairman. Last week, the sustainability workgroups of ChristenUnion, D66, CDA, VVD and GroenLinks presented proposals to make agriculture in the Netherlands more sustainable. GroenLinks not only wants to stand by the sidelines, but to contribute to the enormous challenges that lie ahead for agriculture. I therefore hope that the coalition parties will look openly at our proposals in the interests of the farmers, who want clarity. And finally, not only in the Netherlands, biodiversity has fallen dramatically, but also worldwide, as we heard yesterday from the World Nature Fund, that the wildlife has decreased by 60% in less than 50 years. Last week on Facebook a horrible video of sharks being slaughtered because of their fins, well-known for the shark fin soup. The shark is also threatened. More than 25 shark species swim in Dutch Caribbean waters. They deserve more protection. GroenLinks thinks it's time for a shark action plan, abbreviated Hap. We shall put forward a proposal to that effect in the second period. Until 2016, the Netherlands contributed annually to the Dutch Caribbean Nature Alliance, an organisation in which all Caribbean islands cooperate in the field of nature management. GroenLinks believes that the Netherlands should feel responsible for nature and biodiversity in the BES islands. We have also tabled an amendment to this effect. I'm counting on your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u149	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Geurts of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u150	Thank you, Mr President. A while ago I read an article with the headline "Arts seeks farmer for healthier life." From that article it emerged that in Western medicine there is growing awareness that nutrition is important for a healthy body. Certain fats in milk, yoghurt and cheese have anti-inflammatory properties. These types of food ingredients can contribute to an accelerated recovery and improvement of the quality of life. With many researchers, I believe that further research will lead to a revaluation of animal products. I am convinced that in the future several parties will recognise and revalue that farmers with their products will promote health. Mr. Chairman. Our farmers, growers and fishermen ensure that we do not have to worry about whether sufficient food is available today or tomorrow. They ensure that we can feed ourselves and many citizens outside the Netherlands. This achievement is not valued by parts of our society. There are even organisations that activistically fight agriculture and put the farmer, gardener or fisherman constantly as a cause of environmental damage or animal suffering. Our farmers, gardeners and fishermen are also experiencing great psychological pressure. I have already mentioned this high psychological pressure in the previous budget. The Minister would pick up my signal. Can the Minister state what has been done? Mr. Chairman. Our farmers are asked to think along with us, but why would they want to do so when at the same time various organisations and people say to them that they don't care about nature and have to stop their business? In addition, many food producers face relatively low incomes, urbanisation and lack of appreciation. As a result, fewer and fewer young people want to enter farming. In addition, more and more requirements are imposed by governments and customers. The CDA is convinced that farmers belong to the Netherlands and deserve appreciation. They want to produce sustainably and want the best for their animals. Among other things, they need a fair income. Now that we have our own LNV ministry again, our minister can make this happen. To this end, the cabinet invests in agriculture with a fund for young farmers and with support for the rehabilitation of pig farms in livestock-proof areas. This cabinet will strengthen the position of farmers in the chain by tackling unfair commercial practices and facilitating cooperation between farmers. All these plans will have to be implemented in 2019. What is the timetable for the young farmers' fund? And when can pig farmers report for rehabilitation and when is the competition rights package in the Chamber, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The Minister has come up with her agricultural vision. The CDA believes that this vision offers a perspective for farmers and our country, but it is now about implementation. I would like to focus on three aspects: fair income, cycle and lease policy. An important aspect for the CDA in the vision is a fair income for farmers and the fact that investment and further sustainability must be able to earn back. The vision includes: "Farmers, gardeners and fishermen are hard-working entrepreneurs and they deserve a solid position in the chain." A very important sentence with regard to the CDA, especially now that Europe is becoming the battlefield of food giants from Asia, among others. That is why the question of how the Minister can contribute to new sales channels, including internationally, in order to ensure better income and a better connection between urban and rural areas. In the agricultural vision, attention is rightly paid to the regions of Betuwe and Vechtdal, which distinguish themselves with typical products and tastes. However, the supermarket industry often does not choose regionally. Why are there no Dutch apples in the shelf but from the other side of the world, so I wondered the other day. What are the possibilities for the Minister to agree with the supermarkets on the offer of local and regional products? We are also thinking of making supermarkets contribute, for example by obliging supermarkets to pay back for local production through a promotional fund. A second important aspect of the vision is sustainable soil management. The goal is a richer soil life and less fertilizer. The Minister wants to work on this, inter alia, by examining how my motion on company-specific accountability can be completed. Thank you for that, but more space is also needed in European legislation and in the Fertilisers Act. The CDA is thinking of a broader implementation agenda, with actions to be taken, to enable better soil management and manure use.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u151	I have a question about fair and good income for the farmer in relation to circular agriculture. Does Mr Geurts agree with me that the current instruments for the renewal of agriculture are too much focused on the primary holding?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u152	I'm just trying to translate the question for myself. What does Mr De Groot mean, on behalf of the D66 Group, by this question: the current instruments are limited to...? I think it's wise...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u153	I would like to give Mr De Groot an opportunity to clarify his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u154	To avoid a misunderstanding: the innovation is often limited to farming. Then a stable is renewed and people think: we are going to win the market with that. But does Mr Geurts not agree with me that we need to invest much more, precisely in order to bring these innovations to the market, with support for chain cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u155	When it comes to that particular example of chain cooperation, you'll have me with you soon. It is in our election programme, and that is what we, as a CDA, have been promoting for a number of years. I would also like to mention, for example, the possibility of making general statements binding. This was not possible with the previous cabinet, but fortunately with this cabinet, also thanks to D66. Yeah, we're sure not only to support the primary business. The whole chain, with all the links, needs that help.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u156	Then there is the question: do you think that in the current budget and in the current instruments of the Minister there is sufficient room for this chain cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u157	In the end, I think: the farmer's future in the stable is on his land. In the end, what is going to happen is determined by the consumer. I think that is the key element, that we should also tempt that consumer to do business and sometimes pay more for products.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u158	Mr De Groot for his sixth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u159	I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u160	I had a hunch. Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u161	Mr Geurts talks about apples from the other side of the world on our shelves. That bothers me horribly, too. I don't buy them when it says they're from Argentina, because in my own garden there's also an apple tree. However, I find it remarkable that Mr Geurts just denounced my speech by saying that GroenLinks bears the grave of exports, whereas he thinks that other countries should no longer export because we can provide our own food. I'd like a reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u162	I'd love to, but then we'll have a few more hours, because I have a lot to tell you about it on the basis of my observations over time that I'm allowed to walk around on this face of the earth. What really matters to me is that we do not actually eat so many beautiful products we make in the Netherlands, or to a lesser extent. There are a lot of regional products, such as apples and cherries from the Betuwe, the beautiful province of Gelderland. If you see that doesn't end up in the Dutch supermarket, it hurts me. Then I think: then we are exporting those beautiful products and we are not going to put those Dutch products into our own properties. That is why our election programme says that we want to promote these local products here too. Of course, because I think that is also a question that you are asking me. We export a lot to Germany. But there aren't many cherries produced there. So in Germany they are very happy with the cherries from the Betuwe. So I am delighted with the export, especially when you see that horticulture is the world's first exporter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u163	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A third aspect is the lease policy. The CDA is very pleased that Secretary of State Knops, at the request of the CDA Group, has called for the National Real Estate Company to redistribute agricultural land in long-term leases. This does justice to sustainable soil management and gives more operational security to farmers. It is now the turn of the regular lease policy, where more and more leases are being liberalised. The question I have is: when will the Minister decide on this? With Mr Von Martels, who is also present here in the benches of the CDA group, I believe that Dutch horticulture is the world leader, with a greenhouse horticulture sector that we can be proud of and which is also at the forefront of the reduction of CO. The recently published agricultural vision has been very clear about crop production. In the future, there will need to be ever more accurate cultivation and a great deal of attention to plant health. Integrated plant protection will be a guiding factor and the use of low-risk means will be the basis for processing, prevention, good soil and water management, the use of biological pest control agents and the use of low-risk means. They are fine words, but in what way will the Minister support the sector, so that a flourishing perspective remains available? The CDA advocates a strong market position for a sustainably grown product. On the other hand, we can see that, through a declining budget package, important crops, which are also of great economic importance, are in danger of disappearing. To what extent is the sector being given time to meet new objectives, I ask the Minister. I hope that the CDA will also respond to a realistic approach, in which industry can anticipate it in good time. Mr. Chairman. A theme that has not been included in the vision concerns the consequences of urbanisation on agriculture and nature. Over the past decades, more and more agricultural land has been needed to cope with population growth, the establishment of businesses on industrial sites and improved mobility. Between 1950 and 2016, some 550,000 hectares of land were withdrawn from agriculture. This has two consequences that we don't usually talk about. First of all, the importance of cities for nature. We never talk about nature-inclusive cities. Also the most green and left-wing college of our cities, that of Amsterdam, has no significant attention to this. Recently, a study was published showing that the green is being suppressed in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u165	Your sixth question to Mr Geurts, Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u166	Specially preserved. The CDA told De Telegraaf yesterday that they want more green in the city. GroenLinks is very happy with that. As a result of the piece in De Telegraaf, I had a moment of contact with my colleagues in Amsterdam, from that whole green government there, and they said: yes, we are working very nicely with the CDA when it comes to greening the city. They therefore hope that next week, when they make a proposal to sacrifice parking space for green, they will be able to count on the support of the CDA. I have a question. The CDA has already said, in a discussion on housing, that the Empire should interfere with housing in the cities, because the cities themselves would not get over it. If there are so many houses to come into the city and if the city isn't allowed to rock further, then what is the place where these houses are to come? The city must green, but should the green also urbanize in the CDA's vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u167	It is a rather long interruption with all kinds of elements that I would like to walk by all of them, but you will not allow me to do that, Mr President. So I'm just gonna focus on the last question. Moreover, I do not agree with all kinds of positions in the interruption. Where should we build it? Does everything have to be built in the Randstad? The Achterhoek is a nice place. You can live there, too. Let's get some good connections. Limburg, we can also live there. And so there are still a lot of places. I see that Mr Moorlag Groningen is also making an offer. Fine, it's okay. We're gonna have our party congress there on Saturday. Maybe we'll see you there, too. So it can also be done in other places, it doesn't have to be all around those cities. But I'm really worried. The greenest college has not contributed to it in recent years, nor has it been in the new college agreement that it is in favour of nature conservation. The word "nature" only comes in once, and you know what context? That people in disadvantaged neighbourhoods should go to nature education. That's the only time the word "nature" is in there. In the meantime, make some 550 football fields of nature disappear!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u168	In fact, let's not go into local politics here. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u169	Thank you for limiting me to that. Given the expected increase in urban areas, we should also talk about the conservation of biodiversity in the city and, therefore, about a viable city. The CDA proposes that a programme for nature-inclusive cities be launched with nature volunteers and together with the Ministry of the Interior, provinces and municipalities. For example, the construction of houses and offices, as well as the setting up of parks and roadsides and the placing of trees, should be even more focused on greater variety and living together with nature. Then the second consequence of urbanization. As a result of the decline in agricultural land, the government is causing an intensification of agriculture. When are the governments going to take responsibility for this? Manure processing, smart manure use and fertilizer substitutes are needed to cope with this intensification. That is why we propose that public authorities make a financial contribution to a fund for innovative and smart manure use, if agricultural land is excluded for large-scale urban housing. I'd like a reflection from the Minister on this. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the dairy farm. In the legal treatment of the introduction of phosphate rights in 2016, I spoke about a farmer who asked former Secretary of State Van Dam if she still had the right to exist. Her dairy farm was in his hands and that terrified her. I was talking about a fair question and a cry for help. This question still lives with many farmers and their families. Many dairy farmers, also due to the so-called calf fraud, have been unjustly placed in the suspect bank. No 7,700, no 2,100, but about 75 cases are finally left. I wonder how much of this will eventually be condemned. Does the Minister have any ideas on how to help the sector to further strengthen its image? This is not about the image of the Minister, but about the image of dairy farming. Mr. Chairman. The phosphate rights system has hit many dairy farmers hard. There's been a lot of trouble. The CDA calls for greater flexibility for dairy farmers so that they can supplement the rights in the event of a small deficit, without completing them. Two weeks ago, I tabled a motion, together with Mr Lodders, on which the national attorney would give an opinion. We have that advice now. The outcome, say the answer, is disappointing to me. Again, a direction of resolution for troubles has proved impossible. When does the Minister consider that all appeals and appeals procedures and applications for complaints have been completed at RVO? I thought the question had also been asked by the VVD. While I'm reciting my lines, I realize that. Mr. Chairman. A piece of Dutch glory is about to disappear. We were in front of the Chamber Building this morning. That's where you saw it, at least that Dutch glory. The phosphate rights system raises fewer breeders. Is the Minister willing to seek solutions for this branch with organisation Vee &Logistics? I ask the Minister through you, Mr President. To the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u170	You're falling silent. Mr Bishop for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u171	I have a firm feeling that Mr Geurts would like to say a little more about this. My question to Mr Geurts is whether he himself has a direction of resolution. Putting the question to the Minister is, of course, the right way. That should be the case, but knowing and appreciating Mr Geurts' creativity, he might be able to indicate some directions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u172	I would certainly not underestimate the Minister's creativity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u173	No, and she has a whole staff at her disposal. But I appeal to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u174	Look, when I started this dossier in the summer of 2016, I decided to make sure that there would be as little trouble as possible. We have made all kinds of proposals as CDA to keep the number of cases as small as possible. This was done with the support of other parties and we have supported others. I have to say, at the end of 2018, that there are still too many problems. You can see that the policy suddenly gives entrepreneurs the choice not to grow up on Dutch soil, for example. I am concerned about that, because it is happening on the other side of the border, for example in Germany. Export has already been mentioned. Animals are being retrieved. There are animal diseases. That's what I'm worried about. I need that in order to say that the solutions are not so easy at the moment. We have had a lot of debates between that summer of 2016 and now. I proposed transferring phosphate rights from mink farming to dairy farming. I couldn't. As a CDA, I tried to arrange for us to leave combi companies with pigs and dairy cows the choice to continue with the phosphate rights of their pigs in dairy farming when they stop those pigs. If you read the Minister's letter correctly this week, you will see that the European Commission is so committed to this ground-boundness that it makes you almost despondent. Do you think there's still a solution to all these troubles? There must be, because I am very concerned that by the end of the year many families will be told that they will have to pay tons of fines to the government. And we can't let that happen, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u175	I fully agree with what Mr Geurts said. Or we can see that tonnes of unutilised phosphate space have been left untapped, and the companies, the farms and the family farms have simply fallen victim to it. This concerns me with Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u176	The first interruption was: what solutions are still available? I don't want to raise false expectations with those families right now. Unfortunately, until now, all ideas have proved to be impossible or not to work, either on the left or on the right, for legal or non-legal reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u177	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u178	I'm joining the fishing industry, Mr. Chairman. Above the cutter sector, huge clouds of thunderstorm come together: the landing obligation, the imminent ban on the pulse, the Brexit, the arrival of wind farms and the closure of areas for nature. The Minister has done a great deal of work to secure a future for them. For fishermen, it is incredibly hard for them to get the lid on the nose when they focus on innovation by going fishing with that pulse harness. What future prospects will the fisherman have in the Minister's vision? In addition, the Court of Auditors notes that we have recently had a technical briefing on this matter, which the Netherlands has not yet declared expenditure on fisheries subsidies to the European Commission up to the financial year 2016/2017. I therefore believe that the Dutch budget for innovation and sustainability in fisheries is in danger of falling. Can the Minister explain the reasons for the small number of declarations submitted? I still have a few loose ends, Mr. Chairman. In March last, a motion by CDA, D66 and VVD was adopted asking the government for the Quality Control Animal Sector, the KDS in popular terms, to develop a future scenario in consultation with industry and to inform the Chamber for the forthcoming budget. Can the Minister explain the state of play? And, Mr President, unfortunately, I have to talk about the NVWA in every budget. My colleague, Mr Lodders, has already said a number of things about this, and I agree with a great deal of that. The CDA is also of the opinion that the NVWA will have to do more to control costs rather than to pass on more. In addition, in my view, it is debatable to allocate overhead and group costs to companies and not to general funds. Can the Minister reflect on that? And finally, president: the CDA has confidence in people, trust in society and therefore trust in the future. Moreover, as a CDA, we do our work in the conviction that God's creation is given to us to manage well and to leave it better for our children and grandchildren. And I wish us, as Chamber, the government and the officials, above all, God's blessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u179	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Madlener for his last interruption tonight!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u180	Mr President, thank you, because I think we will need God's blessing. Mr Geurts mentioned a number of very painful dossiers on behalf of the CDA: pulse trawling, manure problems, phosphate rights and the poignant cases. I have nothing to add; we all share that. But let's face it, it's all problems that were partly caused by the CDA. The CDA is co-responsible for all legislation that is now so crumbling. And we are not talking about something that is impossible to solve here, because it is an administrative problem that we need Europe for. I have already argued several times that the Netherlands should put its fist on the table and put the Prime Minister on the table. The Netherlands pays the most to Europe and yet we have an administrative problem that has been partly caused by the CDA. Surely it can't be that long before there's a solution? Surely it can't be that the CDA says there might not even be a solution? It is an administrative problem!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u181	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u182	There are countries in Europe with the fist on the table. Poland, Greece, nobody's gonna stick to it. And we couldn't solve it? My question to the CDA, to Mr Geurts, is: do you not think that we should make a firm commitment to a solution up to the highest level, whatever it is? Do you support my appeal to the Minister to table again with those troubles in order to come up with a solution together?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u183	This is a bit of a repetition of what just happened when two PVVs were attacking my interruption. I am glad, by the way, that so many motions by the Animal Party that supported the PVV did not make it. I have a whole list where I think: the farmers would have been much worse off. But aside from that... At the highest level, Mr Madlener said. I have just said a few times in my speech that this Minister is more than committed to resolving this type of dossier, which she found only on her desk when she took office. So I have no doubt about the stakes. You're asking for our Prime Minister. I don't know how it all moves and sails within the cabinet, but I can imagine this minister standing up to her. If she considers it necessary for the Prime Minister in Europe to speak a few words of power, she will certainly do so. Maybe I should pass the rest of the question on to the Minister. Is that what's gonna happen? I can't judge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u184	Unfortunately, Mr Madlener, I now give the floor to Mrs Lodders. As a group, the PVV has had eight interruptions. That's what we agreed on. It's a lot. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u185	Mr Graus has taken everything from you, but you could expect that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u186	The question of phosphate rights has already been raised in the interrupting debate. A lot of questions have been asked about that. I think we all feel the pain about that. My question to Mr Geurts is about something else. He supported many of the comments I made on the NVWA. I would like to have a more precise explanation. I have talked about a commitment, a change of course, when it comes to the NVWA in relation to the implementation of policies and the development of policy rules. Now this is for a lot of files at NVWA. What is the CDA's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u187	I am not yet awake, but because Mrs Lodders of the VVD and I hang out around the NVWA we sometimes look like clones of each other. That's a risk, too. But very specifically, as far as your point is concerned, the following. In practice, I find that a minister can say quite quickly: yes, that is up to the NVWA, which is about that; it is independent. At the fipronil we see that too. We are going to have the debate on that. We as CDA see a lot that NVWA makes its own choices, which I think are political choices; can you make them as an NVWA organisation? We're gonna talk about fipronil. Another concrete example is how certain European rules should be applied in poultry slaughterhouses. In the Netherlands, this is done independently by the NVWA, where in all other European countries the politically responsible says: that is how we are going to do it; that is how the European rules must be implemented. I notice that the NVWA is putting it all very sharply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u188	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u189	Well, that's a problem. You can see in the statistics that so much is rejected, whereas there would be no disapproval if it were to happen in the same situation in Germany, Belgium or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u190	May I ask you to respond a little bit less, however fascinating it may be?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u191	My drive, Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u192	Yeah, we all feel it, but it's nice if you can do it a little bit more compact. Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u193	That was a very long answer, but I am glad that I can see that the CDA is actually on the same lines as the VVD when we are talking about policy making and applying policy rules; of course it is also about European standards. That wouldn't belong with a NVWA. This is part of a trade ministry, so that we can call the governor to account or ask questions about the matter to the govern ment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u194	I share that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u195	Well, well, well. You were very brief now, thank you very much. Then there is Mr Moorlag, for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u196	About future-proof agriculture. Mr Geurts said he was driven. He stands up for the interests of the agricultural sector. That's also to be commended. If you look at future stability, the line that the CDA has been pursuing since its inception is one of subsidiarity. Is it then conceivable for Mr Geurts to have the Minister's vision worked out by all the parties involved throughout the chain, so that there is an approach whereby the whole chain takes responsibility for future-proof agriculture with income security and continuity for farms? This is, however, subject to the harsh condition that there will be a decent income for farmers, because I fully share that with Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u197	There is an agricultural vision, presented by the Minister. That's what she consulted all kinds of parties for, that's what I understand. That vision must now be implemented. At the time when we were going to do that à la climate agreement, it will be discussed for some time to come. Now I'm ready to say, let's just go ahead and take those steps. I've just mentioned a few spearheads. Undoubtedly, other colleagues do, too. With us these include soil management and plant health. Let's just go take those steps. Let us also do these partial aspects together with those involved. Then we'll just work along the way. But I have no confidence in any more talk sessions and yet another agricultural agreement, which you came up with last time, when I said this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u198	Thank you. This is your seventh question, Mr. Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u199	Yes, Mr. Chairman. "No confidence in it," Mr Geurts disqualifies all parties in the chain to my liking. I would nevertheless like to suggest to Mr Geurts that we at least think about the saying 'only you go faster, but together you may be able to move forward'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u200	I agree with that last point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u201	Well, well, well. Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u202	This evening we will undoubtedly also have the elephant behind Mr Moorlag's wallpaper. Two questions to Mr Geurts. The first is about greenports and horticulture. He had some nice words about horticulture and plant health and so on. How did he experience the Minister's letter on the horticultural agreement, the implementation agenda and such things?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u203	This is gonna be a risk; I'm gonna take a look at my colleague. Mr Von Martels is with our spokesman for horticulture. So I should be speaking for him right now. I hope that goes well. There are very good elements in the letter that we must implement together with the Minister. That's what we're gonna do. If there are elements in it that we disagree with, I'm going to tell you tomorrow, in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u204	That seems very concrete to me. Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u205	Then there's my second question. It's about greening cities. We have both made a plea for that now, but I have the feeling that it was a little clearer in your newspaper yesterday than how you told it now. What are you talking about? Less tiles, more green? How is the Minister going to realize it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u206	Oh, yeah. If we take Amsterdam as an example again: there is the greenest college, which in reality does nothing about it; I cannot say it often enough. You can see in the neighborhoods that the backyards are just being charged. If there are cluster showers, the water can't go away. If you plant more nature, hedges and shrubs, the temperature in those cities will go down a few degrees. Those are just things that have to happen. I am surprised that in Amsterdam the artificial turf fields, the lawns of sports associations that are non-naturally constructed, are counted for greening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u207	Thank you. Nevertheless, the call for us to concentrate a little on today's debate, no matter how interesting I myself find Amsterdam politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u208	Then we will discuss this together at a later date, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u209	Well, well, well. Thank you, Mr. Geurts. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Futselaar of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands can be proud of its beautiful nature reserves and the organisations and individuals that manage and protect these areas. They don't always get the appreciation in society they deserve. There are even groups and individuals who complicate their task. That was not in my text, but I thought I would say it now for the balance in the debate. I was standing here a year ago at my first budget review. That is where I kept repeating my speech: it is no longer possible to do so in agriculture in the Netherlands. Those were big words for a six-month sitting Member of Parliament, and I admit that was not equally good for everyone in this Chamber. That is fine, because in a democratic debate you should have different views. But I do not want to hide the fact that it was therefore good for me to read in the Minister's agricultural vision that she states that current Dutch food production is unsustainable and runs against her borders. Those are big words, too. I would say that she has already crossed the border in some areas, but nevertheless I have to note that the analysis of the SP and the Minister of the problems is already starting to get quite close. I think that's a win. It is for this reason alone that the Minister's agricultural vision is indeed an interesting document which might have deserved a separate debate, but we were not allowed to do so. So I'd like to pay a compliment here. There is quite a lot in this vision that the SP can agree with. Yeah, it turns out that a lot of people in the vision read what they want to read. Yet, you can see a break with the past with a clear analysis where there are problems and some good directions that are sought. Concrete goals are often lacking, but that is perhaps a bit too much to ask for a vision. Using the innovative power of the Dutch agricultural sector, minimising resource use and negative impacts on biodiversity and water quality, yes, that's fine. And yes, I do find some animal numbers. That is exactly the same as last year, but let me not talk about it this year. But there are also good things. It's regional production. It's really good. I think my regions are a little smaller than those of the minister at the moment, but I see a profit in that. Yeah, using less fertilizer, really good. The European Fertiliser Lobby is powerful, so I'm curious how we're going to do that, but I think it's an excellent ambition. So as far as the SP is concerned, the debate should focus not so much on what, but on how. It may not surprise the Minister if I say that the chapter on the impact of the SP is the Achilles heel. In fact, the Minister is putting the emphasis on the sector. Occasionally, the government is allowed to direct and if there really is no progress, then perhaps something should be done with legislation and regulation. But then we're actually years away and that's time we don't have. I fully understand the emphasis on the sector's own responsibility from the ideological composition of this cabinet. I also agree that business management is primarily a responsibility of the entrepreneur. But I would like to say here that I think it is naive to think that the necessary transition can come from the sector itself, not because of unwillingness, but because it is very difficult to take the lead when your socio-economic situation is already very precarious, as with many farmers. It is not self-evident to make new investments if your margins are very small, even if that is necessary in order to survive in the long term. Mr. Chairman. We do not make rules to harass farmers, although I understand that sometimes it seems that way. We do not even make rules to protect nature or water, although they are in themselves respectable goals. We also do this in order to create a level playing field to ensure that everyone has to meet the same standards. If we expect farmers to take larger steps individually and thus, perhaps, weaken their direct competitiveness, then I fear that we will be able to wait a long time. How does the Minister see this dilemma, I wonder? And specifically, this has already been mentioned, how far and in what time does it intend to go into effect? When can we expect it? One example: when she writes about livestock farming, the government's commitment is to reduce the nutrient cycle in the livestock feed for the period up to 2030 and to close it at the lowest possible level, okay. But what is the lowest possible level? Is the Minister prepared to quantify that at some point? What is the deadline we are going to look at, beyond 2030? What are the steps we want to see? At what moments do we take stock? Quite specifically: are we going to receive an annual progress letter on the vision, or even half-yearly, so that we can look at each other: where are we standing and is it getting enough? And if it doesn't hurry, can the Minister also tell us if there's a moment when she says, "Now I'm going to intervene?" The NVWA is already under constant pressure. Overmanaged and undermanaged, the NVWA actually has an impossible task package. There is a waterbed effect in which the service drags from crisis to crisis and in the meantime regular control tasks come under pressure. I will therefore simply ask the Minister what I always ask for at such a time: are the resources that the NVWA has at its disposal sufficient in the view of the Minister to carry out their duties properly? Mr. Chairman. The pressure that livestock farming places on its environment is unabated. This includes health problems. We have seen the recent VGO study which reaffirms the link between goat stables and lung complaints. When we were here last year, two provinces had announced a goat stop. There have recently been a number more overstagging. Does the Minister not see any reason to intervene, even if it is only to urge provincial authorities to take action? Because there are still provinces that haven't done that and they should. We were shocked again last week by a number of serious barn fires. Tens of thousands of pigs and chickens have been horribly burned alive. We are going to debate this at length later, but I would like to ask when the Minister is finally going to amend the Building Decision for existing stables. How much longer is this announced reconnaissance gonna take? I think we've been at it for almost a year and we can't even demand that there be modern fire alarms in the stables. Cattle farming also affects biodiversity and water quality. At my request, we have recently received a letter on the progress of the Sixth Nitrates Directive Action Programme, and specifically on the 40 vulnerable wetland protection areas. In that letter, the Minister shows himself to be very optimistic. But we read the letter and say that the Minister had set a deadline for 30 June 2018 and that was simply not met by all the actors. That doesn't create so much confidence in us for the future. Can the Minister state what she is going to do to keep the speed in this process? 'Cause it doesn't look like it's in there. Then the state of Dutch biodiversity is frightening. It has already been mentioned by GroenLinks, among others. Last year, I remember, we were full of optimism about the statement by Driebergen, but the delta plan biodiversity is still not there either. How long are we gonna wait for that? How long do we have the opportunity to wait, given the situation in the Netherlands? So what additional measures will the Minister take before the last grutto leaves the country? I am also thinking of legislation and I would like to point out that the agricultural vision rightly says that the greatest biodiversity gains can be made on agricultural land. What are you going to do in this area? One of the measures to protect our nature is the Programme Approach Nitrogen, but this is under heavy pressure, not least due to possible statements from Brussels on 7 November. The PAS was our plan B. There is no plan C. Very simple: if on November 7th the black scenario comes out and the legal basis under the PAS falls out, and on November 8th some provinces say that they cannot issue permits, what will the minister do on November 9th? This is a risk to our entire process. Finally, the Regional Deals. That's a bit of a weird duck for this committee, but this minister is about it. This cabinet sets aside 950 million worth of regional agreements with no clear purpose other than broad prosperity. With a list of cross-compliance conditions, such as co-financing, the cabinet will distribute this money on the basis of applications. I do not know of any other cabinet area where so much money is distributed with such vague objectives. I may be the radical socialist, but I think it's a strange way of distributing taxpayers' money. I would like to ask the Minister whether she is prepared to send this Chamber a clear letter setting out the criteria on which these proposals are to be assessed and the objectives to be achieved before the cabinet starts a little administrative monopoly on who gets what. Then there is at least a minimum of transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u211	Thank you. Nice. Right in time. I think that's very good. I would like to give the floor to Mr De Groot of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are faced with the very first independent budget of a ministry of LNV. Of course, that is beautiful in itself, but a ministry deserves its right to exist only in terms of performance. That is also necessary, because we need to produce 70% more food on this earth and we don't have 70% more earth. I was also shocked yesterday by the coverage of biodiversity. 60% fewer species of plants and animals than at the time I was born. So that was 40 years ago. That is why we must go to circular agriculture, because we cannot go on like this. Such a transition is at least as difficult as the energy transition. What we need is clarity, courage and decisiveness from this minister. Then it's about circular agriculture. What does that direction mean? That means directing on four developments. The first is feed that does not compete with food. The second: mature instead of rotten manure. The third: natural association with the soil. We've been feeding crops for years, but we have to feed the soil. That's 3.5 billion years of innovation. And finally, prevent food waste. These are the four elements of circular agriculture according to D66. The Minister has written a nice vision on that. It has also provided support, both on the agricultural side and on the nature side. That means this note didn't fall on the rocks. This also means that we do not have to go any further, but that this minister can work. The transition requires a structural and long-term change in the rules of our food production. Then what are we talking about? Firstly, there should be a standard for recycling efficiency at company level. Why a new standard? Now we all have rules about the substances, about ammonia, phosphate and so on. We're gonna add climate to that. But let us create one standard at farm level within which a farmer can optimise his farm according to his or her circumstances. It's important to think about that. I'd like a reflection from the Minister on this. Secondly, we need a platform.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u213	Mrs Bromet shoots off her chair so quickly that I give her the opportunity to interrupt immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u214	I have a question about that standard at company level. I've also been wondering what circular farming looks like when you're talking about mega-stables where thousands of pigs or tens of thousands of chickens are packed together. Can Mr De Groot tell me a little bit more about what circular agriculture looks like in these cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u215	Then you look at the four elements I mentioned. So you're gonna look at what those pigs eat. Pigs are the primary processors of residual flows. We need to use them much more efficiently. Then you're gonna see how the manure comes out of those stables. Now it's coming together in the dungeon. There goes an incredible amount of ammonia and methane into the air. It can't go on like this, whether it's a big stable or a small one. Then you're going to make sure that manure actually contributes to soil health. In this area, a pig farmer will then have to cooperate with a farmer. Those are elements that allow you to look at such a stable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u216	This is your last opportunity to interrupt, Mrs. Bromet. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u217	How many fields do you need to spread all that manure out of those megas all over the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u218	There's no answer to that question. Eventually, you have to think of the Netherlands as one mixed company. That actually means that you have as much animal production as you can get rid of manure on the Dutch arable land and grasslands. That's where we're gonna have to go eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u219	Mr Moorlag also has a question about this. Go ahead for your final interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u220	I understand that Mr De Groot is in favour of a single standard at company level. He's asking the Minister to reflect on that. But Mr De Groot himself has an idea of what that standard should be? My question to him is: what is that standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u221	Once dairy farmers had the dairy quotas. That was actually quite a simple instrument within which they could optimize their business. But the standards we have now are much more based on ammonia, phosphate and so on. The current standard for measuring efficiency is based on CO per kilo of meat or per litre. That is precisely not what we need, because that standard does not contain the raw materials with which we burden the earth so much. I don't have the answer, in all honesty, but there are other standards, for example, based on exergy, that look at the system. You can also translate them into companies. I am not asking an easy question, but it is necessary to ensure that every farmer knows where he is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u222	I concluded this evening that GroenLinks carried our export model for grave. I'd also like to test it with D66. I believe that our export model can largely remain within the circular model. Does the D66 Group share my opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u223	Absolutely, but not in the current form. A large part of our current export model is aimed at producing as much as possible at the lowest possible cost, very little distinguishing on the market. In the end, we must ensure that farmers and chains can distinguish themselves from products and methods of production that make them extra money. So the answer is: with fewer animals, with less production, earn more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u224	That's gonna be great debates in the next few days. But we know that. That's what we're gonna see. Another point: Mr De Groot was just talking about the need for a directional number on which you can calculate the cycle. Could it also be in Mr De Groot's view that this is made up of, for example, report figures, so that you get an 8 or a 9 for certain elements and a 7 for some elements, but that you don't have to get an 10 for everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u225	I can imagine something like that coming out. As long as it is workable and as long as it leads to all farmers in the Netherlands being able to have an efficient farm and to distinguish themselves within cycle farming. It is therefore possible that such a standard will be translated into report figures within which farmers can go about their own business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u226	There is a rather interesting, different interpretation of the vision when it comes to exports. If I may explain it in this way, Mr De Groot says that we are going to step away from the model of producing cheap bulk products and compete on other things. Mr. Geurts seems a little less enthusiastic about this transition. I would like to know how the author of the vision sees that, in the Minister's person. I'd like to hear her opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u227	I think that is a question for the Minister. Very clever. I ask Mr De Groot to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u228	I have indicated that a new standard is needed. Secondly, we need a platform in which all innovative parties can work together and work together. No party is excluded. This is, of course, about farmers, but it is also about supermarkets, chains, nature and environmental organisations, landscape organisations and banks. I'm just gonna call that platform a clubhouse. Above the door of that clubhouse are three signs. The first sign says: you take everything you have when you go in here. So the farmers take their land, the banks take their money and the minister takes her rules. The second sign that hangs there is: you can exchange everything you have. So they're trading at that table. The third sign there is: you can also make mistakes. Then what's the minister gonna take to that clubhouse? I have four categories: knowledge, rules, money and market order. I'm just gonna walk by. Knowledge is about farmers for knowledge and knowledge for farmers. Firstly, it must align the top sectors with circular agriculture. There's still a lot to do. Secondly, it should promote cooperation between knowledge institutes. That's very important. We need a lot more knowledge about biology. This is not always there at Wageningen, but for example at the Netherlands Institute of Ecology or at the Louis Bolk Institute at Utrecht University, and you name it. The financial flows in the current top sectors policy are limited to the WUR and TNO. How will the Minister promote cooperation, particularly in the field of biology? We need design principles for circular agriculture. I mentioned a few, about soil and manure, but that's not a blueprint. They need to grow. How is the Minister going to facilitate that? We also need to look at green education. I can't wait to see how the Minister's gonna handle that. Very important are accessible open source databases for farmers where they can just get information about good handling of manure and good handling of soil. There's a database, Bionext, that comes from organic farming. It is surprising that this has recently been pulled off. It's a small cost and a great pleasure for farmers to keep that kind of thing in the air. Finally, independent advice. In the European agricultural policy, there is the possibility to advise farmers in an independent way and to finance it from Brussels as part of the national plan. What I find so strange is that the Minister seems to oppose it. In addition, we must bear in mind that everyone who comes to the farmyard comes there to sell something. They also call themselves advisors. Of course, that doesn't make any sense. I do not need agricultural information back, as before, but let us think about a way to help farmers really move towards circular agriculture. Mr. Chairman. That was knowledge. I'm going to the rules now. The VVD has also spoken about obstructive legislation. Last year, this Chamber unanimously adopted a motion instructing the Minister to identify obstacles in legislation. In all honesty, I haven't seen any of that. It is also about the derogation. Fertiliser has already been mentioned. This morning I read in the newspaper that the Minister is surprised that this is mandatory in the derogation. The Minister may be surprised, but she is also in charge, so certainly in a position to do something about it. Then it is also about a separate category for worms and insects. These are small matters, which the Minister had announced would be chosen by the summer. I haven't seen it either. What are we gonna do with the bottom passport? Make it universally binding? I'd like a response to that, too. How are we gonna bet that? Finally, from D66 I would like to advocate a truly radical approach to experiments. As far as I'm concerned, that can be done with an experimental law. The current green deals, or the Loket Space in Rules, are actually insufficient. The entrepreneurs I speak to are all very frustrated by what they run into when it comes to investment in circular agriculture. Then knowledge, rules and, of course, money. Banks are generally risk-avoiding. The Minister is putting in place the guarantee fund to cover part of the risks. That's a nice trade you can make. Use the European agricultural policy, not just for climate, as has recently been well announced in the climate appreciation. But in view of the climate potential of circular agriculture, mention both in one breath: climate and circular agriculture. I would like to make a clear commitment that these two concepts are mentioned in one breath in the drafting of the CAP. Finally, the market organization. We are talking here, very importantly, about new forms of cooperation. As I said, the renewal of agriculture must not be confined to farming. I do not see in Article 11 of the budget any stimulation of chain concepts. We got a letter today. There's a lot to do around the farmer, but chain concepts I don't see. I recently spoke to a pig keeper who is working on Hamletz, and I heard that she was making a logo on the printer for her innovative products. That is, of course, a situation you should not have; professionals should simply ensure that those innovations can also be brought to the market. Mr. Chairman. Ultimately, it's about farmers making money in this transition. This means that they must be able to distinguish themselves on the market. In this clubhouse we get to work. We can do that for D66 tomorrow. The exchange model, the transition model: make sure that there is a clear standard outside, because that way we can get past the stage of the fun projects that we've been stuck in so far. Mr President, then nature. First of all, I understand that the Minister is now really taking steps in the field of monitoring nature. It's slow, but it's progressing. I'll keep an eye on it. I'm terribly worried about the enormous decline of the coral in the Caribbean. It is not necessarily a question of money, but it is a question of good governance. Then it's just a waste incineration plant that's smoking on St.Maarten, non-working waste disposals, while technically it's all possible. This requires real leadership. Please, Minister, get on with this. I know that there is a tendency to point all at one another. Another is about the Caribbean, but it's our coral, it's the coral of the people who live there. So it is the basis of existence and it is also our basis of existence. Then a little closer to home: the managing authority for the Wadden Sea. Please take a closer look at the planning. Then the project Rijke Waddenzee, the Action Plan Broodvogels and Swimway. They are projects that will end this year, but they have been well evaluated. How will the Minister take these projects with him towards the development of the Wadden Sea 2050? Speaking of cooperation, how does the Minister prevent climate adaptation and energy transition from having a negative impact on nature and landscape? I also have a question about the Coalition Natural Climate Buffers. There, nature and environmental organisations work together on climate buffer projects. Does the Minister see an opportunity to support these projects? The coalition agreement for national parks is, of course, a great wish of D66. I know the Minister is working hard on that, but what's the plan? Last but not least: animal welfare. The Minister has written a good note on this. This is about international efforts and national efforts in relation to our farm animals, but it is also about people buying healthy dogs and punishing animal executioners. Those are good moves, but I'm worried about the barn fires with a lot of people. I think the approach in motion is good, but how are we gonna speed this up? Is a stable inspection of electricity sufficient every five years? Mr President, I will conclude. This note on circular agriculture is a huge opportunity. I think we should take this opportunity together here. That's why I'm in politics. That's why I'm in the room. The minister's got support. There's no need for further poldering. It can be boarded from tomorrow. D66 calls on this minister to take the lead on this important transition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u229	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u230	Yeah, 'cause I was wondering where the animals were at that D66 clubhouse. I don't think they fit in there, because there's way too many of them. I happen to know that Mr De Groot wrote the animal welfare note from then Minister Brinkhorst. It agreed that livestock farming would look very different within ten years and that by 2012, but by 2020 at the latest, the animal's perspective would be leading and that breeding methods leading to serious welfare problems would no longer be possible. Well, the first deadline, 2012, we didn't make it and 2020 is pretty close. I see only the question in the agricultural note: has animal welfare been taken into account? Question mark. Are we going to achieve the goals that Mr De Groot put on paper in the year 2000?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u231	That was the Minister of LNV, then Minister Brinkhorst. But indeed, at that time, D66 recognised the importance of animal welfare. It was also the first note on animal welfare. I don't think there was a Animal Party in the Chamber at the time. The note also had a nice title: Love animals. We'll share that. But whatever I share with you, it's going very slowly. Yes, it took a while before D66 could rule again and that is the only way to take steps in the field of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u232	Thank you. You have one more interruption left, Mrs Ouwehand. You know that? Okay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u233	Yes, I've been saving it especially for Mr De Groot. That note also said: we will first see if the sector succeeds; the sector will have the opportunity to make work plans, tailor-made work and so on, but if we fail to do so, we will take action. The joke is that Minister Verburg also maintained these objectives when D66 did not rule. By 2022 at the latest, the animal's perspective would be leading. So we see that the targets have not changed in themselves, but that the approach has not worked. Does D66 say here with the Animal Party that the sector has had its chance and that it is time for other instruments? This approach had already been promised by Minister Brinkhorst: legislative measures would then be introduced. So that non-binding approach didn't work and we only have two or three years to go. We have to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u234	Again, I share that it is slow. I also share the concern about that pace. But in the end, as a farmer, you are responsible for the way you deal with your animals. That's what that note said. At the same time, we see that the markets lead to cost reductions and economies of scale each time. That is also well described in the note. That's not always in the best interests of the animal. That's why you need to work on a structural change of the whole sector. You have to offer perspective, so you can deal with animals better. If I may, Mr President, I would like to mention one nice example of circular agriculture. That's the OERei; I'm just advertising. Those chickens are fed with insects fed on food residue. Chickens are bug eaters. The nice thing is that the chickens, because they're busy chasing around behind them all the time, still have their feathers. You don't have to cut beaks either. The chickens are calmer and have a better life, just by looking at our agriculture in a different way. I agree with you that things are moving slowly, but let's do it radically, because then we're really gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u235	Thank you. Now I wonder if Mrs Ouwehand knew that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u236	From the radical?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u237	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u238	I'm very curious how D66 is going to vote on our motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u239	Well, well, well. You don't have to respond to that anymore, Mr. De Groot. Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Moorlag of the PvdA for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Be sure of good, healthy, safe and fair food, food from animals who have a decent life and food from good ground: if we want to do so, we must stop predatory farming. The way we produce our food now is not sustainable. Predatory farming is taking place on nature and on our environment: too much poison, manure, CO, nitrogen, animal suffering, too much exploitation of farmers, a food industry that is too profit-driven and retailers who encourage people to buy kilo-bullers and food that contains too much salt, fat and sugar. The PvdA wants a break with the existing system. The Minister's agricultural vision is a very good step. The PvdA endorses the objective of circular agriculture. However, the path to that goal is unpaved. My question to the Minister is how she will pave that path. How do we achieve a substantial system change, a system leap? I have argued earlier in favour of a route that is in line with the approach of the climate agreement. Mr De Groot is calling for a clubhouse where only farmers, financiers and the government can take their place. To my taste, there really needs to be a much broader chain approach with all parties to work out the concept of circular agriculture; not to polder, but to join forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u241	Thank you. An interruption by Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u242	I don't know if this counts as interrupting. I specifically said that no one was excluded from that clubhouse. It is a question of banks and farmers, of course, but above all of ministers, nature organisations, chain organisations and also of new links such as the Smart Food Alliance or the farmers' cycle initiative which is intended to help for a long time. Everyone's welcome to that clubhouse. I just said that and I want that corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u243	Thank you for that supplement. What matters to me as a PvdAer is that this agricultural vision is not going to degenerate into an agricultural hallucination. The boundary between a vision and a hallucination is sometimes thin. The PvdA also considers the reduction of livestock to be crucial. The pressure of intensive livestock farming in particular on society is too great and too damaging for the environment, animal welfare and human health. The scale increase should be limited. By 2030, thousands of farmers are expected to end their farms. This offers the opportunity to achieve further and faster reorganisation of the sector and to remove production rights from the market. The PvdA wants to combine this with an approach that prevents degradation and ruin of the countryside. We must prevent millions of square meters of neglected, abandoned farm buildings from dominateing the countryside and turning them into breeding ground for criminals who establish weed plantations and drug labs there. The PvdA wants an active approach. The "Space for Space" scheme, introduced at the time in the reconstruction areas, should be extended and encouraged to my liking: demolish empty stables, rebuild houses, offer young people the opportunity to build and live affordable in a village and increase the support of facilities there! Is the Minister prepared to take these steps and to give more space to the "Space for Space" regime, to drive it forward and to speed up the reorganisation of livestock farming? Because it also creates more environmental space for the remaining farmers. Mr. Chairman. Better food handling. A third of the food in the world is wasted. There is one country that has recently been a leader in the fight against food waste. That's France. France has done so very simply. That country has introduced a law whereby supermarkets are no longer allowed to dispose of food but have to make it available to charities, including food banks. Is the Minister prepared to follow France's good example? The PvdA Group believes that the Netherlands should really be part of that leading group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u244	I think there is one country leading the way in tackling food waste, and that is the Netherlands. This Parliament and this society, all the parties in it, are taking a lot of action to combat food waste. We do not yet see that in the figures, but a lot is being done. If we introduced Francijk's law one-on-one in the Netherlands, nothing will happen at all, because much more is happening here than what is happening in France now. Is Mr Moorlag aware of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u245	I think that raging satisfaction about how things are in the Netherlands is not appropriate when you see how much is being thrown away and wasted. We see that the steps taken in the chain have still not produced sufficient results. A huge reduction has been achieved in France. I want to stay out of the argument about who's the frontrunner, but that's where it led a huge leap. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to use legal instruments to combat food waste too, because, in my opinion, it is really a widely shared view in this Chamber that we should work hard on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u246	Of course I share this entirely with Mr Moorlag. We must make every effort to reduce food waste further, because it is still too common for all the links in the chain. But let's also agree that if we're going to copy one-on-one ideas from abroad, we're not going to get the momentum here either. We're really gonna have to find out where the problems are. It will have to focus on the Dutch situation. We need to tackle it together and we need to promote it in Europe in order to move forward together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u247	In my view, Mrs Dik-Faber and I share the same point on the horizon, the same objective of significantly reducing food waste. Voluntaryity where it can be done is my motto, but laying down rules and legislation where it has to be done, because it just doesn't go fast enough. We need to look at the CO statement we have, and we need to look at it ethically. Yeah, I was raised thinking you're not throwing away food. I think that should just be the norm.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u248	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u249	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to draw attention to the Floriad. The Minister sent a letter to the Chamber on this matter. It does do justice to that top event, national and international. It's an event with a huge look. A contribution from the State side has now been promised, but a significant part of the necessary contribution from the Empire is not yet hardcore. Can the Minister assure us that the missing contribution will be made? Can Almere hope, if necessary, for a contribution from funds for the Regional Deals and the Climate Envelope? In the view of the PvdA, that event should really be able to achieve full maturity. That really is a sign for the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. This cabinet wants to be the greenest cabinet ever. This can only succeed if we manage to get all the parties out of the shooters' pits, if we get all the parties to the table or in Mr De Groot's clubhouse and if all the parties join together in working on the agricultural vision presented by the Minister. This vision must be transformed into a broadly-based long-term approach. We need to stop going from incident to incident. We need to stop judging further. There's got to be a system breach. I hope the Minister wants to pave that path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u250	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In our small country, farmers and gardeners are always around the corner, and yet there is a great distance between farmers and citizens. At the same time, citizens' interest in their daily food is growing. They therefore have an increasingly clear opinion on it, but often have no idea where their food comes from and how it is produced. Connection between farmers and citizens is needed to get to know each other better and understand each other, so that we can work together to create a social food system for the 21st century; a system that is sustainable, that produces good and safe food, that relieves the environment and improves the biodiversity of the country. It is also a system that gives farmers a good price for their products, and there will be a future for the family farms in our country. The big tractor on the square yesterday was the setting for the presentation of my initiative paper Connection farmer(in) citizen, food close. The government agreement includes support for initiatives to link farmers and citizens. In this note, I put forward concrete proposals to give substance to this. I am pleased to be able to hand over this note to the Minister through the Registrar this evening, as well as to my fellow chamber members. I will ensure that this note is submitted to the Chamber as soon as possible by official means. Mr. Chairman. Restoring the connection between farmers and citizens can be done first of all by the widespread introduction of regional products from our country. These products deserve a prominent place in the supermarket and in food industry products. Why beans from Morocco when they grow in their own country? And it is completely indigestible that cage eggs from Ukraine are processed in our mayonnaises. Food from the region is sustainable and that is especially true when we eat with the seasons. Research carried out by the Food Centre also shows that this is also the beneficial choice for consumers. A meal with regional products from the season and according to the Disk of Five is €0.50 cheaper. Is the Minister prepared to talk to the agricultural sector, the food industry and supermarkets about the widespread introduction of regional products? And is it willing to commit to cooperation in the chain for active buying and offering of regional products? In doing so, use can be made of the space provided by the coalition agreement for cooperation in the chain. Mr. Chairman. There is also a need for greater transparency in the chain towards consumers. I also refer to the campaign #what gets the farmer from LTO. Because who knows that the dairy farmer receives €0.33 while a pack of milk costs €0.90? And do consumers know that a potato grower gets €0.14 per kilo while the same kilo in the supermarket costs €1.30? Is the Minister prepared to work towards greater transparency on the origin of products and the price that the farmer receives? And does she see opportunities for a label, for example through a QR code, which also makes sustainability and animal welfare understandable? In June, the Minister sent a letter to the Chamber about strengthening the farmer's position in the chain. What about the implementation and enhanced supervision by the ACM of unfair power relations in the chain? Mr. Chairman. In multifunctional or wider agriculture there are already very nice initiatives, such as care farms, farm shops and childcare. Around 25% of farmers and growers are active in multifunctional agriculture and this number is increasing. The challenge in multifunctional agriculture is to redeem the potential that still exists. There is also a task for agricultural education, so that young farmers are aware of the opportunities that lie ahead. Agricultural education should also be about the social harvest, or about your company in a social context. Is the Minister prepared to work with the sector to draw up a policy agenda for strengthening and professionalising multi-functional agriculture, and to get an overview of and remove oppressive legislation and regulations? Is she also willing to work with the sector and Wageningen University to gain more up-to-date knowledge about the size and impact of multifunctional agriculture? Speaking of education, many children don't know where their food comes from anymore. Maybe they'll answer: from the grocery store. But where does it really come from? How obvious is it to know that milk comes from the cow or simply an apple from a Dutch fruit grower? But healthy eating is no longer self-evident. Many children from 1 to 12 years of age eat less fruit, vegetables and fish than is recommended. Does the Minister also think that programmes such as Healthy School should be further encouraged and that the goal should be that every school should eventually become a healthy school, as a spot on the horizon? Food education programmes are sufficient, but supply is fragmented. Three ministries are also involved: VWS, OCW and LNV. Can't this be streamlined anymore? As far as the Christian Union is concerned, every primary school student visits the farm or cash. Mr. Chairman. The connection of farmers and citizens also takes shape in the FoodValley. Last year I tabled a motion with Mr Geurts to make the World Food Center in Ede a joint success. How's the performance coming? It's not about a building, it's about the stones, it's about the concept. It is precisely through the World Food Center that farmers, scientists and consumers will be able to find each other on the topic of food. I'd like a response. Then I come to the Minister's wonderful vision of circular agriculture. The Minister has presented a beautiful and clear vision for the future to close loops, with great attention to biodiversity, climate, good soil management, less resource use, fair earning models and support for young farmers. This is also in line with the Commission's view on the future-proof dairy farming. These are also local loops, which are largely self-sufficient in protein requirements, and short chains. The Minister knows how much the Christian Union attaches to land-based agriculture. Another essential part of circular agriculture is biodiversity. What is the situation with regard to the development and financing of the delta plan on biodiversity? Can the delta plan biodiversity be financially supported from the POP funds that remain on the shelf? It is important that we quickly follow the concrete measures in the vision. Many others have also spoken about this. How does the Minister intend to deal with the further impact? Does the Minister also take a close look at the existing practice of circular farming? As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this will be a practical innovation programme, with its predecessors at the heart. After all, we do not have to reinvent the wheel. In this context, let us not forget the value of the landscape. Just think of the value of nature, recreation and our living environment. This month, advice was given on the Monitoring Landscape, to measure the quality of the landscape. What does the Minister think of this advice? Is she prepared to develop this further together with her colleagues from OCW and from the Interior? Then my perhaps most beloved subject: food waste. Every year more than 40 kilos per person are still thrown away in food. Last summer, the drought caused many crops such as peppers and plums to be lost, while they are simply edible. I think that was a real frustration for many of us and for people in the country, especially the farmer. For example, Krucumber stood on Dam Square in Amsterdam during an action with 7,000 kilos of curved zucchinis, which would otherwise simply disappear into the container. For this form of food waste, there are different solutions, such as consumer awareness, but also the removal of requirements on the shape and size of fruit and vegetables. A motion from the Christian Union has been adopted on this. What about the discussion with the supermarkets about cosmetic requirements for products? Can an agreement in the chain be proposed in line with the government agreement on space for sustainability initiatives? How is the discussion in the European Union on cosmetic requirements going? Now Albert Heijn has chosen to delete the shelf life data on fruit and vegetables. That also helps against food waste. Can't that be picked up by more supermarkets? Can concrete agreements be reached on this? I know that the Minister is keen to do this, even when it comes to the sustainability dates for long-lasting products. Mr. Chairman. About 8,300 farmers in the Netherlands do agricultural nature management. They will receive support from the European funds for rural development, the POP funds. These are great initiatives. At the same time, the use of POP3 money is often difficult, due to a lot of bureaucracy and rules. This threatens to keep money on the shelf. In addition, it remains difficult to assess whether the money really ends up with the farmer. My question is whether more direction can be given to this, as this is important innovation money, for example through the already existing Regiebureau POP. It would be a real shame if money was left on the shelf. Agricultural collectives are eager to get started, but the money can also be used for the delta plan biodiversity. Is the Minister prepared to look with the provinces to see if the money can be spent as much as possible and if so, how? Then there's the fishing. For Dutch fishermen it is an extremely exciting time, because of the forthcoming Brexit and the final decision on the pulse kor. In the case of pulse fishing, the omens are not favourable, but a positive measure from the government agreement is an innovation programme for fishermen. My question to the Minister is: what about the implementation? Mr President, I will conclude. I would like to conclude with a few wise words from Preacher: "I have established that there is nothing good for people except to be happy and enjoy life." What is that, enjoy life? "For when he feasts on food and drink, and enjoys all the good that he has earned hard, that is a gift from God." Mr President, that seems to me to be an acknowledgement of the hard work of farmers and gardeners and a plea for the appreciation of our daily food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u252	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u253	Thank you, Mr President. "In ten years' time, agriculture in the Netherlands must look completely different than it is today. After all these years, do you think it'll finally happen? The big breakthrough is within reach. The Ministry is ready, the plans are written in black and white and supported by the Cabinet. Within ten years, agriculture in the Netherlands will be completely different." Is this about Minister Schouten's pioneering new vision of agriculture? You'd almost think so. The helm is about, the system is no longer sustainable, as we read now. But no, this quote is from the NRC and was written on July 11, 2000, almost twenty years ago. It is about the vision paper of, pay attention, the VVD, the Labour Party and D66 on agriculture. What did they write? In ten years, it'll be completely different. At that time, they recognised that agriculture ran counter to social, economic and environmental boundaries. In ten years, i.e. by 2010, agriculture would take full account of human, animal and ecosystem health and safety, fully comply with environmental legislation in force, meeting national environmental objectives, and organic farming would cover 10% of the agricultural area. My favourite: livestock farming would also be much smaller, with fewer animals, less environmental pollution and, of course, better animal welfare. If you think "well, but then you didn't have the CDA, because it's always a problem," then I say: no, Minister Verburg also recognised nine years ago that our current food system is putting a great strain on the global ecosystem and putting food security at risk. In her view, system innovations and changes would be indispensable. We should be going to watch for far-closed cycles. She found it somewhat difficult to admit, yet she said that we had to eat less animal and more plant products. Mr. Chairman. It was therefore five parties in this Chamber, which now have a majority of 85 seats in total, who have long and wide recognized what is now in the so-called groundbreaking agricultural vision of Minister Schouten. I would like to congratulate the Minister for recognizing that agriculture has stalled, that the system is unsustainable and that we cannot go on like this, but we really must conclude that we are a long way from what politics should be; that we should solve the real problems if we are already expected to clap our hands when there is recognition of what we have known for so long. Mr President, specifically about animals. In 2001, Minister Brinkhorst asked for advice from the CDA's Wijffels Committee on the future of livestock farming. That advice didn't lie. He said the Dutch livestock must return to the drawing board. Economisation and scaling have led to amorous phenomena. Dealing with animals is not what we want, and the environment is overburdened, said the former chairman of the Rabobank. At the time, the Minister mentioned the conclusion clearly, harshly and inescapablely. The livestock farm as it was would change forever. The reaction was clear: this is done, this is not on the shelf, because there are already so many reports that this does not fit anymore. The fact that putting this report into practice by the Wijffels Committee leads to a significant reduction in the sector seems obvious to me. In the Nota Animal Welfare Minister Brinkhorst promised to do so because Mr De Groot himself spoke about it, I know that he wrote it and that it is used as a guiding perspective that kept animals live in an environment in which they can exhibit their own kind of behavior. Within ten to twenty years, livestock farming must have been redirected towards the perspective of its own behaviour. Minister Verburg also promised that in her Note Animal Welfare. Fifteen years later, so in 2022, the animal's perspective would be leading. Mr. Chairman. We're far from there. If you're ruling now, I'm looking specifically at D66 and the VVD, which are the first to start with this and you've only got three years left for your own goals, then you have to establish that you can't get away with a vague note without any effect. In fact, all the proposals for shrinkage of livestock, which was considered inevitable almost 20 years ago, are being voted down. Why was it chosen that three of these parties, or indeed the spokesmen of those parties, should make a round of work visits and write a vision together? We had hoped that the Minister, as responsible, knowing all the literature and recognizing that the system has been stalled for a long time, would have the courage to say to these spokesmen: listen, dear friends, we know that it is no longer possible to do so. She could have pointed out the biodiversity targets, which are falling dramatically. She could have said that the climate agreement is coming up that we need to maintain, that we have made promises about animal welfare, and not least that if we do not change now, all farmers will end up dead. She could have shown that the number of companies is decreasing with the rate of the past few years. That is what we had hoped and expected from the Minister. She had so many people with her, she could have said she would have chosen Van Aartsen's line. He said at that time that the sector should first make an attempt to solve the problems, but that the government would go ahead if it did not deliver. Van Aartsen was from the VVD. The Prime Minister of the VVD House said in this house: I have nothing to do with the inhuman stacking of animals; you can always knock on my door to put an end to those pig flats. That was just a statement from the VVD. The Minister's CDA predecessor also said that animals should be far better. Let us look at the promises and what has been fulfilled. 10% of our agricultural area was organic. Almost 20 years later, we're at 9.3%. The number of animals should be significantly reduced. I took the lists with me for a while. In 2000, we had over 4 million cows. In 2017, too. In 2000, we had 178.000 goats. That number has tripled to 532,000. By the way, the number of companies has been halved. Then there are so-called hog animals, which do not exist, such as pigs. In 2000, there were 13 million. After that, the number has decreased a little, but now there are more than 12 million pigs. 200 million will be allocated to the rehabilitation of pig farming. The Animal Party is in favour of this, but we are very concerned that there is no analysis and no guarantee that we will not let it happen again. The Animal Party has always warned about new permits, extensions and new stables. Then the answer was always: yes, but the local government, the provinces and municipalities, simply check on the environmental rules; don't worry. Then why did it get out of hand? Why do we need to get cleaned up now? Haven't environmental rules been strict enough? Hasn't the local government been rigorous enough? There will be 200 million out of state funds, of which 60 million will be new subsidies for pig farms, because there is only 120 million for the actual recovery. I understand from the press that this was done in consultation with the sector organisation and that it only agreed on that condition. As if he had something to say about spending 200 million from the taxpayer! It was only agreed if the phosphate ceiling did not go down. I want the Minister to explain what's going on. The rights go out of the market; that is what we asked for. But if the phosphate ceiling does not go down, does that mean that manure production will still be released in another way? Then it's not gonna do us any good, is it? I'd like an explanation. I would have stuck to the promise that the number of animals would go down. Chickens: in 2000 104 million, in 2017 105 million. Butcher ducks: less than a million in 2000, now the number is over. If at that time it was clear that we had to reduce the number of animals because otherwise we would not manage to make agriculture sustainable for the future, then it is not a question of rewriting a vision. Then it's looking at the instruments that haven't worked and determining how to achieve your goals. Another promise. The safety and health of humans, animals and ecosystems shall be fully taken into account. Well, we got the Q fever because the interests of goat farming were paramount to people's health. And neighbors of bulb fields and other fields have checked, because they may live in the fumes of the many agricultural poison that goes on those fields. What about animal safety? I don't know, but what about all the barn fires? Animals are locked up and can't go anywhere! We know what to do, because the recommendations are already there. It's a matter of not wanting to do it. But it was these parties who made that promise! Another promise. Due to the many incidents there would be more policy and supervision. More surveillance? Can the Minister say how often a farmer in the Netherlands is actually controlled? Is that really only once every ten years or is that different? Mr. Chairman. VVD and D66 also said that the government has a responsibility to counter welfare-unfriendly methods that take place with kept animals. I repeat: the government has a responsibility to counter welfare unfriendly methods.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u254	The Party for Animals has done extensive homework and is now doing a lesson in history and taking everyone's measure. But I still want to reach out and see if we can make the Party for the Animals productive. I made a proposal for a clubhouse. Suppose the Party for the Animals could now go in there and contribute to that transition that D66 is committed to. What would the Party for Animals do there to get to work with the others, not just with the others? That's what I'm curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u255	I would remind the people in that cozy clubhouse that there are more than enough advice on how we can feed the world in the future without putting it at the expense of animals, nature or the environment. For example, I would draw your attention to the UN human rights rapporteur, a human rights rapporteur, who says: then we must eat significantly less animal proteins in the rich West. I would therefore invite Mr De Groot to do what D66 has always been for and simply to decide that a shrinkage of livestock is inevitable. It is not wise to wait, because you really do no one a favour with that and in the very last place the farmers themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u256	Do you think that you will be effective there if you are going to lecture everyone there? Do you think that will really mean something to the animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u257	Well, Mr President, knowing Mr De Groot by now, I will certainly have a hard time with that. But I think that citizens can expect politics to do our utmost to do what is necessary. And it is really up to Mr De Groot if he looks the other way now and does not recognise that a shrinkage of livestock is needed. His own minister said at the time: we are going to put that report on the table, because there are already too many! However, a report after a report has been added, including the report of the Council for the Environment and Infrastructure. That report literally says: if you don't do it now, if you don't bet on that shrinkage of the livestock, you're gonna have very high costs and you're gonna make it even more annoying for the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u258	Once again, the cabinet is betting on a shrinkage of livestock and is paying a lot of money for that. And again, we share the dream of a more sustainable and better world and more animal welfare. But there is one difference: you only dream through and D66 realizes dreams. And that's what you do together, and dreaming on your own.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u259	That's what I'm wondering. For example, I do not eat dead animals and I think Mr De Groot does. So if you're talking about animal welfare, you can just make choices right now, today. You can help farmers on their way to that plant-based future today. I'm not a big fan of highly processed products, but the growing turnover of meat substitutes shows that our products are doing very well. You can help farmers by saying: it is strange that one of our most successful producers of meat substitutes is not able to get soya from the Netherlands or even from Europe, because we are not growing it here. We leave huge opportunities for the farmers and D66 doesn't help them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u260	I have been listening for a while to Mrs Ouwehand's contribution. From this, I make it clear that there are only contradictions and that farmers are shown in an evil light. I find that objectionable and I do not think it is really binding on the Chamber. Is Mrs Ouwehand, on behalf of the Party for Animals, also able to share with us something positive about our Dutch agriculture and horticulture?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u261	I am actually pleased with this question, because I had not yet come to emphasise that farmers are stuck in this system. I have just mentioned the figures for the growing or at least not declining number of animals, but the number of farms has been halved or even reduced by two thirds. The Party for Animals had not yet been established in the year 2000 because we thought: it might work out well, given the promises. But it didn't happen. The Animal Party has not ruled, and Mr Geurts just said that he was pleased that all these motions had not been adopted. And yet the farmers are on the lips of the water. Then you're doing something wrong, aren't you? Then the CDA, which has either ruled all these years or supported the policy of the VVD, is doing something wrong, isn't it? So I would very much like a healthy agriculture for the future, in which farming is rewarded again. I really don't buy my food in the supermarket, which pays the farmers far too little. I'm really trying to make sure that farmers earn a normal living. We have also made proposals for this. We lay the burden of proof at the supermarkets, so they normally pay the farmers. And then the CDA always fails. What we are doing is protecting farmers from external trade. The CDA doesn't do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u262	I find it very difficult to get something positive from this answer for agriculture and horticulture. I am really glad that the colleague of the SGP Group will have the last word in this Chamber on this subject, because I will probably go home a little more positively. Once again, I would like to use my last interruption in order to ask Mrs Ouwehand: do you have anything positive to say to our farmers and gardeners, who are not having it easy at the moment? Whatever you're sketching, she's not gonna help.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u263	As I have said on many occasions, I do not think it will help farmers if their representatives simply choose to say that they are proud of Dutch horticulture and agriculture and then choose behind their backs a policy that kills them. I refer to phosphate rights, I refer to the free trade agreements, and I refer to the further commitment to intensification and scaling up. I think it'll help farmers more if you're honest. I'm a big fan of biological and biodynamic gardeners. I would like to give them much more support than is currently the case. I would like European agricultural subsidies to go to these farmers and not to large-scale dairy farmers. So I would be happy to support these farmers, but if we are honest, they will be more helpful than if we just say that we are proud of the farmers and meanwhile implement the CDA and VVD policies that are helping them to the edge of the abyss.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u264	Then let me start with that. I am proud of the farmers and fishermen who feed the country and so much more than that. That is actually the essence of my question. How does Mrs Ouwehand intend to meet the food needs elsewhere in the world in terms of declining livestock, declining production, growing global food needs and climate migration and climate problems? And if food production were to move to other countries, what would be the net profit in terms of production quality and animal welfare? Have you been aware of this? In what way does what farmers and gardeners in the Netherlands would give in macro, on balance, improve the situation if that activity takes place elsewhere in the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u265	Firstly, the Animal Party does not support the construction of livestock industries in other countries, which the SGP does. We had former Secretary of State Bleker here today at the Square. He left a beautiful leaflet in which it became clear that the Netherlands is exporting cows to set up dairy farming in other countries. We do the same with other industries. But surely Mr Bishop should take account of the scientific facts that say that we can only feed the world if we eat more vegetable. The shrinkage of livestock here in the Netherlands goes hand in hand with a commitment to a change in our consumption pattern, because we are far too much animal food and plant healthier for us. Again, we can only feed the world if we eat more vegetable, starting here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u266	Thank you. May I also ask you to respond a little bit shorter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u267	Yes, I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u268	Fine, thank you. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u269	Mrs Ouwehand and I find each other in the realization that a process must indeed be pursued which will change the organisation of Dutch agriculture. More sustainable. We are undoubtedly different about how this process should be organised, but that is why we are also in the midst of different political parties. But my question hasn't been answered. What is, on balance, macro, the profit if production here in the Netherlands goes down and moves to elsewhere in the world? Or does the Party for Animals also have the ambition to reform the whole world and make vegan or instruct vegetarian? Because there is a huge problem, with an enormous increase in food needs. I think that is where the weakness lies in your proposals. Do you agree with me? No. I know. But now for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u270	I think it is very important to make a difference between need and demand. Question is a market thing. There's always a demand for things that aren't good for us, that we have too much of. But look at the need. I quote Gandhi: there is enough for everyone's needs, but not for everyone's greed. Of course, we need to focus on more plant-based consumption everywhere. Mr Bishop says that this animal production will then move around. Then we also have to do that, starting with stopping the movement of cattle in the Netherlands and supporting the building of livestock industries elsewhere. We're sending cows to Jordan, where they'll undoubtedly be slaughtered unsedated. What kind of madness is that? The Netherlands can play a completely different role in this. I'm doing the same thing myself. I was at the United Nations last week. That is exactly where I discussed this point with everyone who wanted to hear it, and also with people who didn't want to hear it. We have to bet on all these fronts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u271	If it is so much worse elsewhere in terms of animal welfare, is it not an argument to say that we should reduce it in the Netherlands? That is why it is important to maintain this production in an animal-worthy manner, so that these animals are at least brought to an end in a dignified manner. I understand the ambition to go to plant nutrition, and so on. But that is a very different and much more extensive mission, which I do not think Mrs Ouwehand will realize in this distribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u272	And yet it has to be. I respect Mr Roelof's gray hair... I mean Mr Bishop. Fortunately, people with no gray hairs are much further in this transition. Eating meat is actually becoming a bit of a thing for 50-plussers. Many young people switch to a diet with much less or no meat at all. So Mr Bishop is right that we have a challenge there, but I have every confidence that that will work. So, I really need it off my chest, a "animal end"? Have you ever looked in a slaughterhouse? There is no such thing as animal-friendly slaughter and animal-friendly meat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u273	Look, I respect everyone in this house who is passionate about this place. But how are we going to feed those two billion people who come along? I'm not saying that's just animals, you don't hear me say that. But ultimately, throughout that ecosystem that is the world, those 2 billion more people need to be fed. What's your vision on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u274	Well, just that it has to be vegetable. I'm starting to get a little surprised about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u275	But then we still...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u276	I'll send everyone who's interested in that to the studies that show you can also think of it as a farmer's understanding that you need to put more vegetable proteins in an animal than you get from animal proteins. In pigs, that might be a factor of five to seven. You could have fed those proteins directly to humans. Five to seven, you could have fed a lot of people. Or you could have a pound of rib chops. Well, then you can choose. Then you can see how many people you can feed on it. That is much higher for beef. Then maybe it could be 20 kilos of grain, while you only get 1 kilos of beef. So all the experts say, if we want to feed the world, we have to eat more vegetable. Here in the rich West we eat too much protein anyway, so we have to get a third of it off anyway. From what's left, you scrape a third animal and then maybe you're left with a third. We'll get somewhere. That's the idea. Not the idea; that's scientifically substantiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u277	Thank you. I'll take a look at Mr. Weverling. I have a feeling you're thinking differently. You have one last interruption. Do you use that? If you'd like to do that briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u278	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u279	Mr President, it is an exciting evening. Mr. Chairman. I wasn't ready yet, but I do say the future is vegetable. That's healthy, we have nice farmland to give back to nature, also fine, we can feed the world and we don't need animals to suffer for it. Well, what more do you want? Mr President, I really need to look where I left off. Oh, yeah, the VVD. I emphasize that, because people sometimes think: gosh, but it's hard to rule with the VVD and the CDA, because they never want anything. But the VVD said: the government, not the sector, has a responsibility to counter welfare unfriendly methods that take place with kept animals, for example breeding methods that simply lead to severe animal welfare disorders. In 2012, but by 2020, according to the VVD, animals should be allowed to exhibit their own behaviour in livestock farming. This ambition was later endorsed by the Balkenende cabinet with the CDA, the Labour Party and the Christian Union. So all the parties that govern today were on board. So the question is: what are we going to do now, what instruments should we use, and should we not look further ahead? Yesterday I came across a picture of a chicken that fell off the truck near a slaughterhouse. I'd like to share it with you, because despite all the beautiful euphemisms and promises, we're talking about "disappearance" in chickens and "some well-being degradation." This is what it looks like. I'd like to share it with the spokesmen. Take a look at that: a meat chick in livestock farming. His or her entire lower body is inflamed, because the entire life of this animal has been played off in a closed stable on litter, which has naturally been soiled with its own feces. Anyone who has children or has taken care of children knows: if a diaper is dirty, you have to change it as soon as possible, otherwise you get rashes and worse. These animals live their whole lives in their own feces. So that's what it looks like. The black things you see at the bottom of the animal's legs are sores. They are also called foot sole lesions, painful ulcers. This therefore arises in the short life of a chicken in the current livestock sector. If we have agreed that breeding on extreme growth will end by 2022, if we have agreed that animals can show their natural behavior, their own behavior, that we treat animals with respect, is this what we find acceptable? And if we don't, how are we going to change that situation in three years' time? Mr. Chairman. The natural behaviour of animals is completely different from the space they are given in livestock farming. Chickens prefer to live in the forest, where they can sleep on tree branches at night. They love dust baths to clean their feathers and live in small groups of 4 to 30 individuals. In the livestock sector, they have at least 5,000 other species on top of each other. That leads to great stress and the animals are going to injure each other. This in no way meets their natural needs. We slaughter 600 million chickens a year, and only the animals that come out of the stable alive. In the highest line-up, that's the only way to register.....there are also 10 million chickens that are already dying in the stables. I have just asked in an interrupting debate: how is it going with animals that are not coming out of the stable alive? Can the Minister confirm that no veterinarian is included for individual care or euthanasia? These animals are simply left to their fate or killed by the farmer himself. Can the Minister confirm that this is the way things are going? The government last year was rather happy about and proud of the deal with China, which after seventeen years of lobbying opened its market for veal from the Netherlands. When I hear the Minister but also Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union say that people may no longer know where their food comes from, I think: yes, that's right, but just telling that milk comes from the cow is, of course, only half the story. A cow only gives milk when it's young, just like it's human. It's a mammal. So if a cow hasn't been pregnant, she doesn't give milk. She's being inseminated to carry a young man. When she gives birth, it is taken away from her within a few hours of birth, because the milk goes to the factory to make cheese and desserts and take milk. It is a fundamental moral problem to make mothers of mammals who have a natural need to care for their young, to suckle it, with the sole aim of removing the young, because that is the way we get milk. Why don't we talk about that? Why don't we acknowledge that as a moral problem? Is there a reason that we tell schoolchildren that milk is from the cow, but that we don't tell them that this is before it? Is there a reason we're taking schoolchildren to an apple orchard, but not to a butcher shop? If we're not ashamed of it, then you should tell us. I think the reason we're not telling you is that we all feel that maybe it's not right, that maybe there's something wrong with it. Mr. Chairman. Then the pigs, very social and clever animals. They're locked in a system where they never see daylight and can't go out. 12.4 million pigs live in livestock farming in the Netherlands, intended for meat. They live in dense dull stables and the air in the stables is downright toxic, even though there has been a European agreement since 1991 that the Netherlands must comply with, namely that the air in the stables should not be harmful to animals. It took until last year that an enforcement protocol of the NVWA finally came into effect, allowing them to maintain on this very small point of the welfare of these animals. Why aren't we a little sharper? Why don't we make the conditions of the animals so that they can always have fresh air? Wouldn't that fit the natural need of the animal, which so many beautiful promises have been made about? Then there's the piglets' mortality. Millions of piglets are born in the Netherlands every year. A lot of them die because they've been bred on a large pitch size. So more pigs are born than the mother can actually take care of. And "care" is a good word, because the mother sow lies between bars and the piglets can drink with her, but she does not have the opportunity to take care of her young in any way. In fact, she must watch as her newborn boy is taken away from her, held for a moment and without anesthesia the tail is cut off. Imagine that happening in front of your eyes. Those animals are gonna feel that. Minister Verburg said about the piglets' mortality rate 12.9% in 2008 of all pigs born: that is too high. This has to and can really go down and I give the sector ten years for that, she said. By the end of 2018 it must have been reduced to 10.5% at the end of this year. I asked the minister earlier, what if we don't make it? Because we're over 3.3 million. The minister said if we make agreements and we don't make them, I find that unacceptable. I want to know from the Minister what she's going to do so that that piglets mortality is reduced by 1 January 2019. 10.5%: this is still about about three million piglets per year who die just after the birth of misery. Is the Minister prepared to prepare legislation to keep that promise? Mr. Chairman. So the targets are long gone. The task is now... The Planning Office for the Environment also says: if you have tried everything, you have to look at other instruments. Minister Brinkhorst said that there will be no more intensive cooperation with the sector. He already foresaw that might not be very convenient. But the foreman of LTO recently announced in an interview that they not only won the formation but also the vision of circular agriculture. So I want to know from the minister who she's gonna hook that up with. Does she have her own vision? Is it going to shape its own work, given all the problems that have long been widely known and the goals that we need to achieve? Or can the usual suspects sit at the table again and nothing happens? You can't do that anymore. Take farm poison. The Netherlands was already in the top three countries with the highest poison use in agriculture in the world. That amount of poison per hectare has increased by 2%. This means loss of biodiversity. The insect mortality is a huge problem. We've been alerted again recently with a new investigation... to the presence Can the Minister assure us that, as part of her new agricultural vision, there will also be a different course on the authorisations of agricultural poison in the Netherlands? Are we really getting out of pomegranate? Are we going to assess the authorisations that exist in Europe on the basis of the precautionary principle? If we keep waiting for EFSA's opinion, the same thing happens with the neonicotinoids, the poison that is extremely harmful to bees. We were warned of this years ago, but EFSA took a very long time to come to the conclusion that it was indeed dangerous. And now that poison is in our soil. That doesn't just come out anymore, because that poison has a high downtime. Mr. Chairman. If we want to meet our biodiversity targets and stop the biodiversity crisis, we will not only have to reduce livestock numbers and make a proper plan to clean up them so that farmers can and can change them, but then we will also have to stop this agricultural poison. That therefore requires more than the current 'we wait until the European Food and Consumer Affairs Committee has a ruling on this', because you have been dealing with the consequences for far too long. Several spokesmen have already mentioned it: the biodiversity report that was published this week is really worrying. Mr. Chairman. I have already asked questions about the reform of pig farming. We have also asked these questions to the Minister for the Interior, because we are always being sent from the cabinet to the wall. When I asked this minister about the local government, which has a major role to play in the licensing and supervision of livestock farming, this Minister said: I am not about that. Well, then we asked the Home Secretary, "Gooh, there's 200 million coming from your cabinet, your state treasury. Perhaps something went wrong in the functioning of the local government? Have they been too generous with permits or were the environmental rules not sufficiently strict?" Then she said, "My colleague from LNV is about that." So I'm back here. I'm very curious about the analysis. What happened? Were the environmental rules too broad, did the local government issue too generous permits or was there perhaps something else going on? I don't think we can spend 200 million without an answer to that question. And again, if you spend 200 million, why only 120 million for a real clean-up and actually another 60 million for pig farming? And what about the phosphate ceiling? Mr. Chairman. The PBL has given a nice sketch, which calls it "Towards a beckoning perspective for Dutch agriculture." In that they say: we can continue with the current model of "that is a political choice," but then we also have to accept the consequences. Then we must accept the consequences for the position of farmers, who will not keep up that cost model. If we choose that scale increase, technological development and produce at the lowest possible cost, we in the Netherlands will always have a small advantage in the short term because we are so innovative, but in the long term other countries with much cheaper land and much cheaper labour will of course look at our trick. In the long term, therefore, Dutch farmers will not be able to compete well on this world market. We've known that for a long time. Say goodbye to that. The Minister and the Christian Union spokesperson also say it: people must be connected to their food again. I very much agree with the Minister and the Christian Union, but of course that is not going to happen on the world market. The question is whether we can make a roll-over here in the Netherlands in the earning model of farmers. We would be very much in favour of that. The supermarkets should be ashamed to squeeze the farmers like that. We say, "Come up with a burden of proof." Let the supermarkets prove they paid a fair price. Let the processing industry also prove that it has paid a fair price. If we can make that tilting, you can do it for production for your own country. But on the world market, the Minister cannot, of course, use advertisements in German and Romanian newspapers, or I do not know where, try to establish a link between these citizens and the Dutch farmers. I don't think so. So back to the PBL, which says: you can continue with this model and not implement those system changes, but then you have to accept that these are the consequences. And what I found very acute about the PBL: society will continue to oppose other values and thus the legitimacy of the current direction of development. So the PBL is actually talking about the criticism from society, or rather about the public interest that we all have to guarantee and what citizens are asking for. Citizens have the right to be protected by the government. Citizens have a right to have the government take care of the things you cannot do as an individual. That is not critical of the farmers. That's just saying that this system is at the expense of the health of your environment, of your children, of the animals, and that you don't want to. You want the government to do something about that. It's about the criticism. You shouldn't pretend people criticize the farmers. People are critical of the system. The government looks away and leaves it in place unless it makes other choices. That's what PBL is advocating. Those other choices are choices for food as a human right, so you choose to reason from the question of how we're going to feed the world. What do we need? There's enough for everyone's needs, but maybe not for everyone's greed. You can easily define greed as overconsumption of meat you don't need, or a hundred kinds of desserts you don't need, or all highly processed food that doesn't feed us but makes us sick. Choose the approach to food as a human right and let that guide you for further development. Choose farmers and not the agro-industry. We all know that the interests of the agro-industry benefit from this increase in scale, from the free trade agreements and from the fact that individual farmers who want to work on a small scale are forced out of the market. Choose the peasants. Bet on actual circular agriculture. That also means closing it at regional level. You can't shield with the word circular agriculture if you don't set any limit to what that cycle should be, except the world. We can regionalise our diet in the Netherlands. We do not need palm oil from Indonesia or soy from Latin America. Make that choice. Choose a truly respectful treatment of animals. This means much less animals, recognition of their intrinsic value and based on their natural needs and behaviour. If you don't, society will keep asking if the government will please take care of that. 'Cause you can't do that on your own. And bet on agriculture that no longer puts biodiversity under pressure, but opt for forms of agriculture that have long proven themselves and in which farmers can put their own crafts into it. The Minister presented her vision of a biodynamic company. I thought that was a positive sign, because biodynamic farmers work closely with nature. They do so knowing that they need the ecosystems that nature offers very much to maintain healthy soil and crop rotation, and to produce healthy food in the long term, not just that one year by spraying everything you happen to not like. That craftsmanship of those farmers, we have to choose. We need to give them a little support. There's money for that. There is 365 billion in agricultural subsidies for the next seven years. If we use that for a transition to an agriculture that serves all the values and not just the interests of LTO, it will be a lot more pleasant in the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u280	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I would like to give the floor to Mr Wassenberg, who is also speaking on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Animals, like humans, are entitled to their existence. They are more than an object or property, they are living beings of their own value, regardless of the value that man assigns to them. This means, among other things, that we must protect the animals that live around us and that we must give animals that we keep or care for proper treatment." I quote from the policy letter on animal welfare which the Minister of LNV sent to the Chamber on 4 October. Those are beautiful words, but without much meaning. Because the words in this policy letter are in stark contrast to the real policy. A paragraph later the ball is already placed with the holders, the breeders, the entrepreneurs. Not the government but above all they are responsible for animal welfare, according to the Minister. But the primary importance of keepers, breeders and entrepreneurs is generally not animal welfare, especially if it costs money. A lot goes wrong if you leave animal welfare to the market. The government stands by and looks at it. Although, even that last one doesn't always happen. Because due to a lack of capacity, for example, the control and enforcement of the malicious dog trade leaves a lot to be desired. I want to illustrate that by using Woerdense rogue dog breeders who fled to Hungary when the ground here got too hot under their feet. Those abuses had long been known, but were ignored by the NVWA. In any case, since 2011, there has been a constant stream of complaints about these rogue dog dealers. Reports of nuisance, complaints from buyers of a sick or neglected puppy, apathetic or neglected animals at dog shows, interns reporting shocking abuses. It is only when the municipalities of Woerden ring the bell at the end of 2016 that the matter will move and a first check will follow. The case turns out to be serious. The Public Prosecutor's Office is now conducting a criminal investigation. The defendant's real estate and bank accounts have been seized. The breeders themselves fled to Hungary and continued their wrong practices. So that is not a small matter, but it was taken far too late. What's the reason for that? In response to written questions from the Animal Party, the Minister refers to the limited capacity of the NVWA, which unfortunately does not allow that service to follow any notification, even if it is a professional bread breeder who did not have a license to keep dogs in business. The breeder kept 250 dogs where he could only keep 20. Mr. Chairman. Research journalists from Follow the Money showed that illegal puppy trafficking after drug trafficking is the most lucrative form of crime in Europe. The Netherlands puts 6 fte on that; that is far too little. Does the Minister agree with me that this crapul should be fought harder and more effectively? And is she willing to release more capacity for this with the NVWA and with the animal police? Because that extra capacity must be the beginning of the solution. It's not gonna work without it. Mr. Chairman. To our Chamber questions about that crooked Woerdense dog breeder, the Minister also answers: "I also call on every potential buyer to investigate for themselves whether the breeder with whom one buys is good." It's always good if the buyer goes into the backgrounds of a breeder, but that's not how you fight the illegal dog trade. Especially when you see how easy it is to purchase a puppy via Facebook or Marketplace. You simply cannot put the ball with 17 million Dutch people if you as a government do far too little to deal with the problems. But in dog breeding there are more problems than just the illegal and criminal bread farmers. There is also a lot wrong with the breeding of rashes: problems with inbreeding and dogs that are sick or become sick due to their appearance. Let me give you an example. There are veterinarians in the Netherlands who perform eye correction in dogs. That seems decadent, but unfortunately it is not; it is a bitter necessity. Those vets aren't trying to make dogs prettier, at least in the eyes of their owners, but to prevent them from going blind. Several dog breeds have a genetic disorder where the eyelids curl in. This can be found in the bulldog, in the labrador and in the St. Bernard's dog. Those eyelashes will scratch the eyeballs. And every time the dog blinks, those eyelashes rub over the cornea that makes it thicker and opaque. Eventually, those scratching hairs lead to an ever deeper ulcer and the eye is lost. An eyelid correction is not a decadent procedure, but a necessary procedure. That deviation is the direct result of the way in which rashes are bred. Inbreeding, breeding with a small group of parent animals and selection on external characteristics are the cornerstones of the breeding. The appearance of those rashes is recorded in breed standards. And in order to meet those breed standards as well as possible, there is bred with parent animals that possess those characteristic characteristics of that breed to an extreme extent. This has led to a true rarity cabinet: dogs with bulging eyes, very flat snouts, small skulls, extremely short legs and ultra-long backs. The breeding on these external characteristics has also led to major welfare problems in many races. That small, convex skull of the cavalier king charles spaniel is almost proverbial. It makes for a cute, adorable puppy-like appearance, but is so small that the brain doesn't fit well and get under high pressure as the animal gets older. As a result, the dog suffers from severe pain and epileptic seizures. And that English bulldog with his flat snout can't breathe because of that much too short snout and therefore takes grumpy and sighing breath. They also die much sooner. In addition, large-scale inbreeding has always been used in rash breeding. Males with many hundreds of descendants are no exception, with all the consequences. Boxers often have heart problems, huskys are deaf and labradors have an increased risk of cancer. The problems of those rashes have been known for years, including in this house. Still, there's not much going on. The Minister does not take measures, but leaves the solution of the problems to the market, in this case the Management Board. That's the dome of raccoon breeders' associations. These are the same associations and breeders who have created the problems by breeding for decades on external characteristics and applying a lot of inbreeding for that purpose. And what is the so-called solution of the Board of Directors? It comes with a fair breeding plan, which should improve the well-being of dogs in the short term. I'm reading a piece from the original fair breeding plan, which is from November 2014. On page 11 of that fair breeding plan we read about the ambitions: "Ambitie 1: per 2018 dog breeding is an animal-friendly and responsible sector and is also known as such." So obviously something went very wrong there. 2018 lasts 62 days with today and what happened? That is what I read in the Minister's animal welfare policy letter of 4 October: "Although not yet completed, there seems to be a gradual shift in thinking in the breeding of rashes." So "slowly" seems to have started a change in thinking in 2018, the year in which the dog breeding should be an animal-friendly and responsible sector according to the original fair breeding plans. Those who still had some faith in the intentions and the plan of action of the dog breeding should now fall from their faith. Nothing changes at all. In this way, the breed dog in the Netherlands is not going to be okay. That fair-bred plan isn't going to solve anything. It does not impose any restrictions on the sector. Breeding for extreme external characteristics shall remain permitted. Animals with an extremely flat snout or too small skull: it can and can all be done according to the fair breeding plan. That fair breeding plan also still allows inbreeding, for example cross-breeds between cousin and cousin. It is a plan that has been drawn up by interest groups and that can be read out. It is a plan aimed at improving the image of the sector. Let's also take a look at the scope. Only one in three breeders is a member of that Board of Directors; so the vast majority is not. But we want rules that apply to all breeders and not just to those who belong to a club. Does the Minister recognise that it is not for the health of a dog to decide whether the breeder is a member of a particular club, and that we must have rules that apply to all breeders, so that the health and well-being of all dogs is improved? We can and must prevent dogs from knowingly and knowingly being bred on sickening external characteristics. And we can and must ban all forms of inbreeding. The well-being of many breeds of dogs, rashonden and lookalikes, is very bad because of years of loose breeding. These problems have been known for a long time, but even the first steps towards a solution are not taken. The initiative should not lie with the sector that caused the problems, but with the government. The sector's screwed up a lot. The government then has to make rules to turn things around. We need laws and regulations that apply to all breeders and that benefit all breeds of dogs and all dogs. I'd like a response from the Minister. Then, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to talk to you about experimental animals. The cabinet has the ambition to be leading animal-free innovation in 2025. The Minister makes EUR 1 million available for this every year, but the other leaders, who do share responsibility for the use of experimental animals, because of drug research, because of chemical safety tests and even because of chemical weapons tests, refuse to pay for it. EUR 1 million may seem like a lot of money, but to put it in perspective: it is only 10% of what monkey animal centre BPRC receives annually in state aid. As early as 2016 the Chamber said by way of a motion that the BPRC should disappear in the long term. In short, the amount available to get animal-free innovations off the ground is rather modest. And then I express myself very weakly. But it could be considerably more if other ministries also provided financial support. Has the Minister already addressed other leaders on their financial responsibility, as promised at the Animal Tests Office on 7 June? If that is the case, why do we not see it in the budget? Mr. Chairman. How does public funding of animal-free research relate to experimental animals? Because if it turns out to be only a fraction, it is not realistic that a change in animal testing is brought about in the short term. I have tried to get the figures from research with experimental animals, including the Ministry of OCW and also the Ministry of LNV, but I received a remarkable answer: universities and companies are not obliged to provide information to the government on the extent to which this is funded by the Empire. "This" is research with experimental animals. So the government has no idea. On such an important subject as research with or without experimental animals! The government says that in 2025 the Netherlands should be the frontrunner in animal-free innovations, but does not even know how much money is being spent on research with experimental animals. It seems to me appropriate to explain that the government keeps track of exactly what happens with taxpayers' money spent on research. What research is it devoted to, with or without experimental animals? In any case, it seems only natural that there is openness as to where the tax money is going and therefore also openness as to how much tax money is going to be spent on experimental research. Does the Minister agree with me? 'Cause that tax money belongs to all of us. The least you can expect is that there will be clarity about the investigations financed by that money. Mr. Chairman. In two types of animal research, I would like to dwell on one thing. First of all, it is about testing nerve gases on experimental animals. This has been happening in the Netherlands for more than fifteen years. Nerve gases are horrible weapons whose use is prohibited. It is completely unethical to do animal experiments to test nerve gases. When will these experiments be permanently stopped? Finally, I would like to mention the animal experiments used in intensive livestock farming. Just like the nerve gas experiments, we've been asking Parliament questions about this. They haven't been answered by the minister yet. In its recent opinion, the Animal Affairs Council does not make a fundamental assessment of whether intensive livestock farming is justified as a target for animal testing. There is also a lack of a concrete target on the reduction of the number of experimental animals for this purpose. Is the Minister prepared to come up with a concrete plan to reduce the number of animal experiments for intensive livestock farming and the number of animals used for this purpose? Mr. Chairman. The fishing. Last week, we saw horrific images in The Guardian of fish that, after capture, have been fighting for hours to choke to death. Elsewhere, fish are laid alive on ice to slowly die of hypothermia. There has been no controversy about whether fish can suffer from pain for a long time. Scientists have been in agreement on this for years and yet billions of fish are slaughtered unsedated every year. For more than twenty years, this has been discussed in the Netherlands, including by the Animal Affairs Council. He called in 1996, 22 years ago, to stun fish. However, fish on board vessels are still not intoxicated. On 7 March this year, the Animal Affairs Council published the report on Fish Welfare. Despite the Minister's commitment to send a response to that report to the Chamber before the summer, we have still not received anything. Summer's long gone by now. The late summer is also long past, but the Chamber is still completely in the dark about an appreciation of the minister. Also in the animal welfare policy letter we received on 4 October, there is no mention of the slaughter of fish, with or without anesthesia. When can the Chamber receive a response to the opinion of the RDA, I ask the Minister. Is eight months, from the beginning of March to the present, too short for such a reaction? And if so, how much time does the Minister need? The Animal Council therefore advised explicitly to intoxicate fish before killing them. The stack of studies that show that fish are in pain, grows monthly. What should happen before the Minister announces measures to prescribe the standard of stunning of fish before they are killed? The Animal Affairs Council explicitly advises it. What is the Minister waiting for after all the opinions of RDA and EFSA? Mr. Chairman. We've had to wait a long time for it, but the Haringvliet Locks are finally going ajar so that migratory fish can pass through. That's great news. More than 100 million are allocated by the public authorities and various organisations. But right in front of that new gateway are fish fucks and the migratory fish that pass the previously impenetrable barrier swim straight into fishermen's finches. Negotiations for a ban on fishing with the sector have failed because some fishermen could not live with the regulation. That is quite amazing, because EUR 100 million is being invested, providing financial compensation for fishermen to offset the positive effects on nature, fish stocks and biodiversity by immediately catching fish that pass through the lock. The Kier decision is there to help nature, almost 50 years after the Haringvlietdam made a hard separation between fresh and salt water. By setting the lock ajar, migratory fish can pass the Haringvliet sluice again, but if these fish are caught away immediately after passing and end up in the pan, we don't get much progress. That's a shame forever. Can the Minister make it clear whether this was the purpose of the Kier decision? If it wasn't the target, how can she prevent what's happening now? My final point is the African swine fever and the draconian measures which the Minister proposes to prevent the rise of that disease, measures which will almost certainly be counterproductive. Experts indicate that the major risk of infection with African swine fever consists of contaminated meat taken from infected areas through animal and meat transports and through humans, e.g. hunters who have been in contact with sick animals, whose clothes and shoes are contaminated, for example by blood. People, not animals, are at the root of African swine fever in Belgium. The Belgian authorities assume that the outbreak of swine fever was caused by leaving contaminated meat products in a car park along the highway. This African swine fever is a reason for the Minister to re-introduce wild boar hunting, which has been banned since 2002. But by a drifting hunt the pigs will spread in an attempt to escape the hunters. Those animals are looking for a safe escape in agony. This reduces the chance that the hunter shoots in one shot many times. There's got to be a shooting on a fleeing animal. As a result, a single fatal shot will be much more difficult to make, which means suffering for the drunken pig. With regard to stopping the virus, hunting will also have a counterproductive effect, because if a pig is infected with the virus, hunting leads to an extra high risk of spreading. Normally, a sick animal will stay in its own territory, but when it is hunted, it will flee and spread the virus over longer distances, especially when it is shot and it loses blood. In the population that is still completely free of the virus, hunting also makes no sense, because more shots means bigger and more throws per sow. In addition, wild boars from neighbouring areas will take the spot of the shot-off boar. So booze promotes migration. Quite apart from the indescribable animal suffering associated with that measure, the firing of pigs increases the risk of infection. Mr. Chairman. The only logical measure would be a national ban. How does the Minister explain that wild boars have to die for a disease that is spread by transporting and dragging infected meat? A large retail company is currently advertising even with game imported from Poland. That offer applies from tomorrow for the whole month of November. The game comes from the country where swine fever is prevalent. We allow the transport of that game from the infected areas in Poland. But the Minister proposes to allow unfocused hunting in the Netherlands, with the result that groups of pigs are being chased apart and the animals are forced to flee far outside their normal habitat. That is why we are calling for an import ban on wild boar and a ban on imports of wild boar meat. Can the Minister explain why she does not issue an import ban? I have ten seconds left, Mr. Chairman, but I'm sacrificing them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u282	There you go. Thank you. Your colleagues are pleased with those ten seconds, I think. I would like to give the floor to the last speaker, last but not least, Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u283	Thank you, Mr President. I was asked by the colleagues of the VVD to start with a Bible text, saying: "All flesh is like grass and like a flower of the field that falls." That does not relate to my argument, because it exegetically sees on a slightly different theme, but I thought it was worth passing on. Mr. Chairman. For a year now, I've been more or less a spokesperson for agriculture. I have now had dozens of work visits and many conversations with farmers, fishermen and gardeners. What strikes me and stays with me is the enormous drive within the sector, of people who are in the throes of food production, and the desire to deliver a good product and to do so safely. That's one of the things that's stayed with me. The second thing that has stayed with me is sometimes, if it is all right, a kind of resignation, of "it has to be" but sometimes also an undertone of despair, of "they come up with measures that have been devised somewhere in The Hague but which do not work in practice." I am thinking, for example, of the way in which the whole calf registration affair has been handled. Mr. Chairman. Those are images that stay with you and that touch you, all the more so because I myself have a background in the agricultural sector, as a young man. Then the drive just gets bigger and bigger to think together with the colleagues about how you can really improve that sector. That is why I would like to congratulate the Minister and her staff on the agricultural vision. That is a very promising piece. Only, it is a vision that says: so we could set it up; these are about the frameworks within which we should strive for certain goals. It doesn't say how to do it. I also think that this is a strong point, because the Minister points out, and that sentence stuck: the first step is for government and social parties to make agreements in mid-2019. That is a very strong point, so it is not just behind the agencies or just with experts that you are going to think about how to do it, but that you are also involving the social parties. I would have found it even stronger if it had been included in that sentence: also with the farmers themselves, so just go around the table. Then you can say: it has to be through the associations and organizations. I'm sure it's all right, but don't do that for once. Just talk to some poultry farmers... Well, no, it's more about agriculture and livestock farming, so just talk to the people who get up early every day, milk the cows and collect the harvest. Apart from the fact that the Party for Animals is likely to think that all cows should be released, you will see that there will be a policy that even that party must say: this is very close to real animal welfare. I am convinced that, if you call on the people of practice, this will really benefit the effect. Mr. Chairman. To reassure you all: I do not want to make it as long as my fellow Members do. In view of the time available, I shall confine myself to a number of questions and a few points on which I would like to go a little further. First of all, if this agricultural vision is to take shape, we will have to focus on practical research. I question the extent to which this is actually being promoted in the present budget. Wageningen gets extra money and the pig test farm in Sterksel closes. What about that and what does that add? The practice is eager to do more practical research. LTO proposes an implementation programme for plant health and the Louis Bolk Institute wants a multi-annual practice programme for circular agriculture. That seems to me to be perfectly in line with the Minister's plans. My question to the Minister is: does the Minister see the problem? But above all: what opportunities does it see to respond to and encourage this? Does she see opportunities to make extra money available for practical research? Then I come to innovation. In the transition, the Planbureau proposes for the Environment, an investment fund fits, especially for risky innovations. My question to the Minister is: does she take this? Does this idea have a place in the shaping of the new agricultural policy? Then the pay model. What we all know is that, of course, the product boards have been abolished. In doing so, we have abandoned a lot of useful facilities and support for the sectors. The only thing we know for sure now is that the European income subsidies will go down, and if it is up to the cabinet, probably even a little further than Brussels wants. That is why we call for farmers to be able to make a fist through producer organisations. Recently, a thesis on this was published in Groningen last month. This shows that the Netherlands is lagging behind in this respect, in terms of the organisation of the agricultural sector. The rules on what a producer organisation may or may not do are vague and unknown. There is therefore still a world to be won in this area. Look at Germany. That is where the position of producer organisations is legally well anchored. No prohibition of cartels for producer organisations, but a competition test by an accreditation body. Clarify European rules that the rules for producer organisations take precedence over the ban on cartels and avoid additional requirements for producer organisations in specific sectors such as fruit, vegetables and dairy. My question to the Minister is: is she prepared to look into this and see if there can be some sort of self-organisation within the sector, better and more structured than it is at present? Of course, I can give her the title of the dissertation. I am also curious about the state of play regarding the implementation of the SGP/CDA motion on an exemption from the insurance tax on broad weather insurance. I also had some questions about the NVWA, but for the sake of short, I agree with the questions that colleagues have already asked. I would like to dwell on the problems of phosphate rights. Several dairy farmers saw their future fall apart due to the policy on phosphate rights. It now appears that the government has unjustly involved non-milking companies in the granting of phosphate rights. Those companies are not included in the State aid decision. Now the rights are partly reversed. My question is: does this mean that 2 million kilograms will be cleared? Is the Minister prepared to consider whether they can be used to compensate for the troubles? 'Cause it's a lot of cows. Then the meadow and field birds. I was working at the Arkenheempolder. Nature management for meadow and field birds is frustrated by predators of foxes and crows. Volunteers sit there with their hands in their hair and threaten to drop out. Hunters are tied with hands and feet, figuratively. In order to be able to carry out proper management there, it is necessary that this predation is addressed through the provinces. Is the Minister prepared to take steps in this respect? I'm gonna give the fishing a rest. Mr Weverling has made a glowing speech about this, and that also applies to others. I would like to join in that. There is a lot of work to be done and my plea is: take advantage of this knowledge and the craftsmanship of farmers and fishermen. We need them very much for sustainable food production. I wish the Minister much wisdom and blessing from above. There is another debate after this, but I still have a kind of evening closure from Maarten Luther, which we also remember a little bit this day. He once said: "If a farmer knew how difficult and dangerous the work of the princes is," I read "Ministers" there for a moment for "thank God he is a farmer." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u284	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate in the first term of the Chamber. We will continue this debate tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u285	I thank the Minister, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home, and I suspend the meeting for a single moment.
