ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the reopening of the debate on Law 34349, which provides for a partial ban on the wearing of facial clothing in education, public transport, public buildings and care, i.e. partial ban on facial clothing. I would remind the Chamber that the plenary discussion of the bill took place on 12 June 2018. During that examination, the Schalk motion (SGP) c.s. on the desirability of an investigation to ban facial covering clothing in general at manifestations and demonstrations (Room 34349, letter G). The votes scheduled for 19 June 2018 on the legislative proposal and the said motion were removed from the plenary agenda on 19 June after the Chamber had agreed to the request of the SP Group to allow the debate to be reopened in order to submit a motion in a short third term. In view of the availability of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, it was agreed that this third deadline should be held today and that voting should follow. I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. For the Group of the Party of European Socialists, the debate on the legislative proposal has focused on the effectiveness and feasibility of the law. We believe that the implementation of the law should not cause problems for institutions where they are not now. It should be made clear that the law prohibits the entry into these public institutions and facilities with facial cover. This prohibition is addressed to the wearers of these clothes and not to the doctors, nurses or bus drivers who react in cases where they are faced with this violation of the law. My group believes that it is important to clarify the way in which the law will be implemented and to lay down the Minister's commitments in this respect, so that they are clear to all concerned. To that end, I shall table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Köhler, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Wezel, Mr Meijer and Mr Gerkens proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the draft law aims to establish the general standard that the wearing of facial clothing is not permitted in educational, health and public transport institutions and in the interests of mutual and identifiable communication for quality service and security assurance;]] [[noting that at present there is still insufficient understanding of the effectiveness and feasibility of the legislative proposal, in particular as regards the subsidiarity of the legislative proposal;]] [[Welcomes the commitment of the Government to consult with the relevant sectors (education institutions, public institutions, health institutions, public transport) and to inform the Court of Justice of the results of such consultations before the adoption of the Act;]] [[Notes that the people working in these sectors are not or will be entrusted with the enforcement of the law;]] [[Notes that the competent authority of the institutions and companies in the sectors concerned can decide for themselves whether and how the law will be incorporated into house rules and working instructions;]] [[Welcomes the government's commitment to monitor its effects after the introduction of the law and to identify the findings after a period of two to three years, including experience in other European countries in addition to national experience;]] [[calls on the Government to submit these findings to the Chamber for discussion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34349-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-6.u4	I'm still looking for the pointe. What exactly is the intention of the motion? These are many observations and observations of what has already been said. There is a request to send the outcome to the Chamber as well. That sounds like a bit of an open door to me, so I'm just looking for what exactly is meant to be. What do we say if we say yes to this and what effect does it have?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-6.u5	The intention of the motion is to make clear to everyone involved in the implementation of the law what the law does and does not mean. In particular, we consider it important to note that this law does not have a binding effect on people working in the sectors concerned, that they are not responsible for enforcing the law, because there is a great deal of fear in those sectors that it would. In itself, there is nothing new in this motion. It does clarify what the law will not mean and what the law will mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-6.u6	Perhaps Mr Köhler can clarify why the motion is needed if he says something about what is not in the law. There are a lot of things that are not in the law and we are not all going to vote on them. What exactly is the reason why we should say yes to this? Please convince me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-6.u7	I'll try that again, but I'm afraid I'm going to have to repeat myself. One of the points of discussion for different groups in the previous deadlines has been whether this law is going to work counter-productively, or whether it is not going to cause problems in the implementation in institutions which have now resolved this well. We have also put a number of questions to the Minister. It is clear, although this is not explicitly stated in the law, that the people working in the sectors concerned are not or will be charged with enforcing the law. It is also clear that the law does not affect the right of institutions and companies to draw up their own house rules and working instructions. This is a clarification that we would like to give outside, particularly to those involved. So this is a motion of clarity. I do not think the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance can oppose that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-6.u8	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. Does one of the other Members still wish to speak in a third term? That is not the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-6.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Don't let them know on the other side that that is also an option: a motion of clarity. Maybe two things in advance. In my view, Mr Köhler has just stated that the proposal reflects the social importance that we recognise of good communication and recognition of citizens among ourselves, its impact on the quality of service and security. Mr Köhler said that just now, too, the individual freedom of everyone to behave and to dress as he or she would like. Those are the things that have always been weighed against each other. The legislative proposal envisages a partial ban that is legitimised in the sectors as just listed by Mr Köhler. That is the objective of the bill that has been dealt with here in the Chamber. The motion actually confirms what I said in my term. It is not the workers in the sectors that are going to maintain this. This sees the ban on the side of those wearing facial-covering clothing. I also said in the debate that I think it is important to keep an eye on the effects and that I am going to do my best to get a good picture of them. I will do so by keeping in touch with the sectors concerned and looking at developments in the case law. A suggestion from the Christian Union was to involve developments in other countries. I'll share all those findings with the Chamber. I believe that is also what the motion is asking for. Perhaps I should point out that the motion for a resolution states that there will be consultations with the sectors concerned in order to introduce them. That's right. That is to be able to determine when the law can be introduced. The commitment does not see me coming up with those findings before that. So first there is consultation, then the introduction. Then after a number of years these findings are bundled in a letter to both Chambers. With this explanation, I would like to leave the ruling on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-6.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-6.u11	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to request a ten-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-6.u12	Could you give me a reason for suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-6.u13	I would like to discuss the motion with a number of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-6.u14	I'm looking at the room. We got the motion sent last week. I'll leave what I think in the middle, but I think you've had at least a week to study the motion. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-6.u15	I think that's enough now. We've been obstructing the SP fraction. We just want to take a vote for once. They've had plenty of time for this. They've had an extra week, and then it's not enough. As far as we are concerned, we can just vote now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-6.u16	I'll take a look at the room. A request has been made to suspend for ten minutes. Five minutes? I see no and I see yes. A five-minute suspension. It's 1:59, to be exact. You'll have the time until 2.05 p.m. I'll give you one more minute. So six minutes of suspension. We're really moving on at 2:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-6.u17	The next item is the continuation of the debate on legislative proposal 34349, but we are no longer debating it. The next item is voting time. We're gonna vote on the motions first.
