ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u1	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on legislative proposals 34915 and 34916.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u3	Thank you, Mr President, if you do not point out to me that I am the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u4	You're absolutely right. I have said "Security and Justice" with great reluctance for a number of years, because I think that justice is more than enough. It's the other way around now, but apparently it's so etched in my head that I keep saying "Security and Justice." But I still prefer the Justice Department alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u5	It is a great boost for me in my life that the President of your Chamber is quite right. I would like to begin by expressing great gratitude for the speed with which your Chamber has dealt with these legislative proposals. But I also think that the tragic history makes that perfectly understandable. The enormous loss of lives due to the downfall of flight MH17 is incomprehensible. 298 people have been ripped out of life from one moment to the next. For next of kin facing such a loss of loved ones, life has taken an irrevocable turn. It has also touched your Chamber in particular. Senator Willem Witteveen died together with his wife Lidwien and daughter Marit. Two days before taking down flight MH17 Willem Witteveen had handed over the manuscript for his magnum opus The law as an artwork to the publisher. Witteveen uses the metaphor of the artwork in that book. He compares the creation of laws with the writing of a novel. From that perspective, he characterizes laws as a guiding framework that opens up an imaginary space within which the democratic community can develop. According to Witteveen, laws must provide guidance for the present and the future. Laws themselves no longer need to provide a solution to societal problems, but rather to define the spectrum within which these solutions can be formulated. A philosophical view that we should make a motto. With his death, the Netherlands lost a gifted lawyer and a passionate politician. Mr. Chairman. Truth finding and satisfaction cannot take away the loss of this life and the lives of all other victims, but they are important, for the relatives, but also for society in general, for the Netherlands, Australia, Malaysia, Belgium, Ukraine and the other grieving nations. Since that terrible day in July 2014, government, police and justice have been working to get the facts on the table and to call those involved in taking down the flight to account. With the presentation of the JIT, the Joint Investigation Team, on 24 May this year, more clarity has already been achieved. The Buk installation with which MH17 was taken down comes from the 53rd brigade of the Russian army. In this light, the Netherlands and Australia have held Russia liable for taking down flight MH17. It concerns the liability of Russia as a State within the framework of its responsibility for the relevant Buk installation of the 53rd Brigade. Today we are discussing the ratification of the MH17 Convention and the implementing legislation that is essential for criminal proceedings. That is to say: the individual criminal responsibility for taking down flight MH17. Last year, the JIT countries jointly decided that the prosecution of suspects could take place in the Netherlands and according to Dutch criminal law. National persecution in the Netherlands will be embedded in close and lasting international cooperation and support. Mr. Chairman. Since that joint decision, the preparations for a process have been vigorously undertaken. A treaty has been concluded with Ukraine and implementing legislation has been drawn up. Both of us are discussing today. In addition, there are a large number of practical issues that require preparation, such as the location for the process, which has recently been announced, the necessary infrastructure for process parties, media etc., and security, both physically and digitally. There, too, is and is being worked hard on. Then there is the treaty between the Netherlands and Ukraine. The starting point for criminal cooperation between the Netherlands and Ukraine is the existing multilateral conventions in the field of mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. The MH17 process will be a special process that requires specific adjustments. However, the starting point is to keep the adjustments limited, so that derogations are only made from existing frameworks if there is really no other way. In the bilateral treaty, the Netherlands and Ukraine have made some additional arrangements. As a result, uncertainties in the existing questions have been removed and solutions have been provided for situations that have not been taken into account by the existing treaties. I would like to briefly discuss the most important issues with you. First of all, the transfer of criminal proceedings. Ukraine transfers its right to prosecute the taking down of flight MH17 to the Netherlands. The Netherlands has jurisdiction, but the transfer of criminal proceedings by Ukraine makes it clear that persecution and trial in the Netherlands can include all victims, regardless of their nationality. This is an important condition of Australia and Malaysia in the joint decision of the JIT to allow national prosecution and trial to take place in the Netherlands and under Dutch law. Then there's the extradition of suspects. Ukraine will extradite suspects found on its territory to the Netherlands. However, Ukraine cannot extradite its own nationals. I shall come back to the trial by means of videoconference when I answer the questions in a very detailed manner, but I am now going to say a few words about it. Any suspects who are on Ukrainian territory and cannot be extradited may be tried using a videoconference link. Whether that happens, the Dutch judge decides in the trial. Then there is the transfer of the enforcement of custodial sentences. The Convention lays down arrangements for the transfer of the execution of any prison sentences imposed by the Dutch courts. This means that a Ukrainian suspect convicted in the Netherlands after the trial will serve his sentence in Ukraine. Let me briefly outline the proposed legal arrangements. The starting point for the prosecution and trial of taking down flight MH17 is, as I said, that they take place within the existing frameworks of Dutch law and regulation. Those frameworks are also suitable for this purpose. There are a few additions. I refer here to the appointment of the court of The Hague as competent court, the taking over of criminal proceedings concerning the foreigner who has his permanent place of residence or residence outside the Netherlands, the use of videoconferencing in the context of the trial of suspects, and the creation of the possibility for the court to use the English language during the hearing. I'll come to the questions, Mr. Chairman. I will answer that in order of the speakers. I will start with Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst, who asked if there are any other countries that are legally restricted in the extradition of nationals, such as Russia. That's the case. Several countries in the world have a ban on extradition of their own nationals. Our eastern neighbours, Germany, know that. Russia also has such a ban, as stated in Article 61 of the Russian Constitution. Mrs Faber also asked what guarantees the government could offer that any sentence imposed would actually be enforced and what means of coercion provided for in the Treaty. In the Treaty with Ukraine, the government has agreed to take over the enforcement of penalties imposed by the Dutch courts. On the basis of these agreements, Ukraine is obliged to implement them effectively in the event that the execution is taken over. If for some reason there is no complete execution in Ukraine, the Netherlands can take over the execution itself. In that case, the convicted person will be reported internationally and can be extradited to the Netherlands as soon as he moves outside Ukraine. Mrs Faber also had a question about airspace. She asked why that was not completely closed. A number of these questions have been addressed extensively in the parliamentary proceedings in your two chambers in 2015. I am not going to repeat them all here, if you and Mrs Faber agree, Mr President. Those questions are well known. The question is why there was only a flight ban of 32,000 feet, et cetera. The airspace above eastern Ukraine was not completely closed because there was no concrete threat to civil aviation above 9.7 kilometres. The Antonov who was shot down on July 14th flew down to a lower level, a level that can be reached with other weapons, for example with so-called MANPADS. Those are rockets from the shoulder. As far as avoiding airspace is concerned, some airlines did fly over the area in eastern Ukraine on the basis of their own information position and others did not. Former so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. The collapse of the Antonov on 14 July and the coverage of this has not changed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u6	Ukrainian minister Klimkin did say that Antonov could only be hit with advanced anti-aircraft guns or by another aircraft. This was later endorsed by Ukraine's Minister of Defence and the US Government. So they knew that there was just heavy, advanced artillery in the wrong hands in that area. They knew that. Of course, it is also remarkable that commercial airlines have made the decision not to fly over Ukraine anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u7	I don't know what the question is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u8	The question is then the following. They were aware that there were heavy defence guns. There were airlines that had chosen not to fly over it anymore. So they did have that information. Then there is the question: why didn't they shut down the airspace? You indicate that Antonov could also be taken down by, for example, rocket launchers from the shoulder, but that is contrary to what the Ukrainian Minister Klimkin said. He said otherwise. It has just said: it can only be done with advanced defence guns, not with a weapon from the shoulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u9	The tricky thing is: I find it difficult to comment on what a Ukrainian minister says about it. These are the findings from the cabinet and they are what they are. That was discussed with you in 2015. I would like to further philosophize about that, but this is how the cabinet sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u10	But then there seems to be a difference between what the US Government, Ukrainian Minister Klimkin and the Ukrainian Minister of Defence say, and what our own government says. Well, there's a difference, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u11	I don't know. All I've said so far is that Antonov was flying at a lower level. I think that is the most important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u12	Mrs Faber, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u13	It is true that Antonov flew at a lower level, but he flew at such a high level that he could only be brought down by an advanced missile system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u14	That is an observation by the Ukrainian minister, but that does not change the fact that Antonov flew at a lower level. I also think that this law does not make much difference, quite frankly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u15	That's exactly what I was going to say, which the Minister's just closing with. I don't think this place is in order. It is now about the treaty and the law that is based on it to prosecute. So I think it is a little unnecessary to re-examine the whole of the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u16	That's one thing. The other thing is that I don't understand very well what the contradiction is. Those MANPADS are advanced weapons, but they don't make it up to ten kilometers or more. This also shows that Antonov flew a lot lower. That was actually all I wanted to observe about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u17	I do not know exactly what the Minister's answer is. It was about not closing the airspace in time. I do not have the impression that the government has actually taken a stand on this. I read in the Acts of the House of Representatives that the Minister explicitly says that this is actually part of the entire criminal investigation that is going to be done, because that can also be a factor in the reasons for bringing down the MH17. Do I understand correctly that the closure of airspace on time or not is also part of the criminal investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u18	Well, I don't remember that being discussed in the Chamber. I think we're going to be very... Mrs Faber's questions weren't about this. Those were fine questions, by the way, but the questions were why it was not completely closed, why only a flight ban was chosen for so many feet and so many other things. I answered that, but I didn't go into the question of whether...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u19	Okay, but then maybe you'll answer my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u20	I do have a lot of answers here. Absolutely, I'm getting to that. I have here the question of Mr Knip and Mr Strik or the Government about the statements made by the second additional protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters and to the EU legal assistance agreement, which means that the possibility of hearing suspects by videoconference is not being withdrawn as soon as possible. That is a different subject, but I shall return to Mrs Strik's subject in a moment. We are indeed seriously considering withdrawing these statements. I would like to do so in the wider context of the application of the videoconference in Dutch criminal law, which is also being discussed in the context of the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. There are very clear developments in this regard. I would like to point out that the government does not want to leave in general terms the policy that a suspect is physically present at his trial and will always be focusing on extradition of suspects. In any case, I will take a decision on this in the near future. The member Knip asked if the Minister could give an indication of the situation with regard to identifying culprits, now that the Russian Federation as a state has recently been held liable. It's up to the state's attorney's office to assess who's a suspect and against whom there's sufficient evidence. In September 2016, the Joint Investigation Team reported a group of about 100 people who could somehow be associated with the downing of MH17. Meanwhile, the role of a large number of them is much clearer and the Joint Investigation Team focuses on a smaller group, but I want to leave it at that in the interest of the research. The Joint Investigation Team has indicated that it is convinced that the Buk installation used is of the 53rd brigade. That presentation has, I can assume, been seen by everyone, and it has provided convincing proof of that as far as this minister is concerned. Mr Kox asked about the issue of expectation management. He said that we have had cases of this kind and that it did not actually come to a conclusion. Lockerbie might be an exception to that. I support that call. The legislative proposals we are discussing today are an important step, but there is still a very long way to go and success is not guaranteed. We strive for truth finding and satisfaction, but we also depend on other countries, who must be prepared to face the truth and do justice to the victims and relatives. I hope, like all of you, that one day it will be clear what happened on 17 July 2014 and that those responsible for this disaster will be punished. But I would like to refer to the words of the Prime Minister shortly after it had happened, who quoted one of your members: it is our duty to go after this, what has happened and what has happened and what has happened to the perpetrators. I stand for the fulfillment of that duty. Mr Kox and Mr Strik also asked if I could explain how I think the video interview should be practically arranged. This practical development is indeed an important issue in the preparation of the process. Many parties are involved: the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary, and of course there is also consultation with Ukraine. However, the demands of a fair trial are paramount. Both the Netherlands and Ukraine are parties to the European Convention on Human Rights, which means that the practical effect of the trial by videoconference must not only be in line with the quality requirements laid down in Dutch law, but must also be able to pass the test against the ECHR. We're working on that practical elaboration. We are still working hard on this, but there is still a lot to be done. Mrs Strik asked what procedural law applies. That is therefore Dutch criminal law. Ukrainian law does not apply, but the Ukrainian competent authority present in the area where the suspect is located may check that no fundamental principles of Ukrainian law are violated during the hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u21	The minister said he would end the speakers in order. He hasn't answered some of the questions I've asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u22	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u23	Is that gonna come, or...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u24	Yeah, that's gonna come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u25	Okay. And you are also talking about Ukraine's ratification?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u26	I'll check my papers. Yeah, there's a lot of answers coming up now that the name of the member Kox is above. I think it's about 12. I would also like to make it quite clear, in response to the questions put by Mr Kox and Mr Strik, that I am convinced that our professional and experienced Dutch judges of the court of The Hague will remain far from violating the fundamental principles of Ukrainian law. Mr Kox asked if there were any contacts with the Russian authorities regarding the hearing of persons in Eastern Ukraine. The criminal investigation is still ongoing. I cannot, therefore, give any further information on whether or not to hear witnesses and suspects in the interest of the investigation at this time. How problematic do I estimate the settlement of the process when it comes to the enforcement of penalties in third countries? That's what Mr. Kox asked. The implementation of Dutch penalties in Ukraine is precisely regulated by the present Treaty. With regard to the other countries, it will be necessary to consider on a case-by-case basis whether and to what extent the transfer and enforcement of Dutch criminal sentences or the extradition of the convicted person by the third country to the Netherlands is legally possible. Mr Kox also mentioned that it took a long time for the First Chamber to debate this treaty. The Convention was concluded on 7 July 2017. Subsequently, the implementation procedure was speeded up and both legislative proposals were submitted for consultation only to the Public Prosecutor and the Council for the purpose of the case-law in view of the need for urgency. An urgent opinion was then obtained from the Council of State. As I have already said, your Chamber has taken up the matter with speed and, incidentally, so has the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u27	Done things don't happen, but I also hear Ben Knapen say: you can take these things off as a hammer piece, but this is far too important, given the promise we made to do it right. And this Chamber would like to do business well. In my opinion, such an important treaty could have been discussed in committee, because there is still a great deal to be done, as you yourself say. The road's just begun. Anyway, that's over now. My question concerns the next step. That's ratification by the Verchovna Rada in Kiev.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u28	Ratification of...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u29	... of the Treaty by Ukraine. We can say yes, but Ukraine must also say yes. As far as I know, that hasn't happened in Kiev in parliament. There is no ratification yet. I know Parliament a little bit in Kiev. There it goes a little more noisy than it goes here. In other words, are there any obstacles to be expected from parties in that large parliament who say: sorry, but we are not going to give that up, because that is a motion of censure in Ukraine's case law? We can do that ourselves, so why don't we? Do we know anything about that yet? The first step to be taken after today is that Ukraine's parliament will support the Minister of Justice. Can the Minister tell us anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u30	Mr Kox had a question about this in the first term. My answer to that is that last Wednesday the Treaty was discussed in two parliamentary committees of the Rada. That's the Ukrainian Parliament. I understand that the treaty received unanimous support and parliamentarians have called for it to be implemented as soon as possible. It is expected that the Treaty will be debated in plenary this week in the Rada and that it will be put to the vote. Let's build our hopes on that. Mr Kox also had a question on an issue that is not really the subject of today, but I think it is good to say something about it. That is the state responsibility, the multilateral treaty. I assume that Mr Kox is referring to the draft articles on state liability for international irregular acts of the International Law Commission, the ILC. I see him nodding. They were adopted by the UN General Assembly in 2001. This was preceded by a very long and difficult process. That even started in 1953. The adoption by the UN General Assembly was then, in 2001, the most feasible. There was insufficient support to further lay it down in a treaty. That is not necessary in itself, because these articles are already being put into practice by judges in several countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u31	The Netherlands is one of many countries that say: we now have articles dealing with this terribly complex issue. However, the proposal of that international committee to include it in an international treaty was not supported by the Netherlands. We've seen in the Rainbow Warrior case how complicated it is if you don't have it. In the end, there has been a result and the state's liability has been established. We are using that figure now. Hasn't what happened now led the government to rethink? For perhaps it would be wise to change our position from 'no, this treaty does not have to come' to 'let's look again at the arguments for achieving such a treaty'. The issue of state liability and the criminal case are still going to take a very long time. At Lockerbie it took 12 years for the first day of the criminal trial to take place. So is the government at least willing to think about our attitude? Does she want to reconsider the "no, there does not need to be an international treaty based on those articles"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u32	Let me say again that this really falls outside the framework of the Treaty, the law, which we are talking about here. This is about state liability. I find it very difficult to say anything about that. Since I am interested in the subject, I would like to speak with your Chamber as a lawyer. I find it very difficult to talk about this, because that would be a shortcoming for my foreign minister, because he is in charge of the whole. Moreover, I think that we should really have a debate on this with each other. Maybe we should do that sometime, first in the House of Representatives, of course. I don't want to send Mr. Kox home without something, so to speak. I think that there has been a very clear choice for a state liability, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also explained in the Second Chamber debate, which is covered by some other international treaties. This is without prejudice to any discussion as to whether we should have anything with these articles, at least as far as this minister is concerned. But I would also like to make it very clear that I do not think it is being discussed at the moment, not only today, but also in the context of MH17, to start this discussion right now. I really do not want to say more about it, because then I am going to have a debate which I think should at least enable Minister Blok to take part in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u33	Mr. Kox, one more time at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u34	In my view, the order is primarily in the hands of the President. I think this is important. Not only I, but several speakers have said that we are talking about this treaty, but also about the promise made by the Dutch Government: we are going to get to the bottom of this and we are going to study every course of justice. That is why, in addition to the criminal proceedings, the government has opted for that other course of action. And then I think that in a debate we have about how the Netherlands is going to do justice to that promise, this is also on the agenda. I am not asking you to undertake today that you will do this or that. We all know this is gonna take years. And then I think that anything that the Dutch Government can or can now consider should not be suspended until later, but that the government should think about it. This Chamber can help to think about that, because we will of course come to talk about it. It is not for nothing that all kinds of lawyers warn us: pay attention, a criminal trial becomes very, very, very difficult. I have given a number of examples. State liability becomes very, very, very difficult. There is an example: Rainbow Warrior, where it has been successful to some extent. Are there any other roads? I do think that the Dutch Government should understand these legal proceedings and also discuss them with the Chamber. That is not out of order, but that is part of the promise to the victims and to the Dutch people: we are going to explore every possible course of justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u35	But now I'm going to intervene, Mr. Kox. You mentioned me and we are discussing the bill as it stands: 34915 and 34916. You've been able to give your opinion. I think we are now restricting ourselves to discussing both legislative proposals. There is much to say about it, and I fully agree with you, and it is all very complicated, but I want us now to confine ourselves to both legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u36	I would like to make a final point, Mr President. This has also been discussed in the House of Representatives. I don't see why this Chamber couldn't talk about this and the House of Representatives could. The Minister has already predicted that this Chamber would be discussing it, so I think it is too far, especially because it was not out of order on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u37	I am not blaming you, I am just saying that we are now restricting ourselves to both legislative proposals before us. That's not a reproach. I think we should take the time to talk about this at another time. I think that the offer made by Minister Grapperhaus, which also includes the Foreign Minister, is indeed very realistic and that we can have a good debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u38	Mr President, I would like to say that we discussed this state liability separately in the House of Representatives; Mr Blok and I. To put it all together: I was perhaps the sidecar of his motorcycle, in this case. After that, I discussed these legislative proposals separately with the Chamber, without Mr Blok. I do not want to fail to do so, I say through you, but I think that, precisely because of the estimated complications of both procedures, it is really in the interest of putting in place good laws and a good trial, later, that we should concentrate on that criminal trial. My point remains that I would like to discuss this in a debate with the Foreign Minister on this subject and on the articles. That should be in the Lower House first, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u39	Then we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u40	I will continue with Mr. Kox. I would also like to discuss the issue of Ukraine's airspace. Why has Ukraine not been held liable as a state? I am going to go into that briefly, although this is a little bit off-limits from today. As a cabinet, we have studied all legal options to achieve truth finding and justice. On the basis of all the documents that are there, I have also discussed this in detail with Blok; it is also contained in the letter from Blok to the House of Representatives, including the information from public sources, own investigations, reports from the Research Council and legal investigation into possible foundations and evidence, in the opinion of the Cabinet, there is currently no legally convincing evidence for Ukraine's successful accountability. It is not excluded that certain information from the criminal investigation appears to be relevant to the question of whether countries other than Russia can be held liable. I would like to stress here that the cabinet itself does not rule out an option. Furthermore, the responsibility of another State is a major step in international traffic. The cabinet does not use that instrument lightly. Only if there is legally convincing evidence will that happen. You have heard me say earlier that the evidence presented by the Joint Investigation Team at the point of the missile installation of the 53rd brigade is the rocket that shot down the MH17... is the type of hard evidence we are talking about. I come to Mrs Vlietstra's questions, who wondered how Ukrainian criminal law relates to Dutch law. Can the enforcement of a Dutch sentence in Ukraine result in a lower sentence? As far as the level of penalties is concerned, I have noted that there are no major differences between the criminal laws of Ukraine and the Netherlands. Moreover, in the case of the transfer of the enforcement of penalties imposed in the Netherlands to Ukraine, such penalties may be adjusted only in a very limited manner. The reduction of the penalty is only possible if the penalty imposed in the Netherlands would exceed the Ukrainian legal penalty limit, in so far as there is an excess. But I have already told you that the differences are not great. They're small. Mrs Vlietstra and Mrs Baay-Timmerman asked for the consent of a suspect to stand trial by videoconference. That is an important subject. Mr President, I hope you will allow me to comment on this a little longer. The possibility of being tried by videoconference, where the defendant is in a country other than the country in which he is tried, is a special feature. As far as I know, that has never happened before. However, there is experience with videoconferencing at domestic trial. Think, for example, of the Mafia trials in Italy. Some international criminal tribunals also use videoconferencing for certain purposes. The Dutch law has allowed hearing by videoconference for more than ten years, including trial by videoconference, but in practice there has been no widespread application so far. In Dutch practice, trial by videoconferencing has never been applied. The aim is to ensure that the trial of taking down flight MH17 takes place as far as possible in the presence of the suspects. Being justified by videoconference is only a possibility in the situation that a suspect cannot be extradited from Ukraine because he is Ukrainian. This could also be done in the case of nationals of other countries if we find at some point that these countries also have such a ban on extradition of their own nationals and if we can make such an agreement with those countries. Let me just say this for the sake of completeness. Current Dutch law requires the defendant to agree to the trial by videoconference. The same applies to international regulations. There too, the consent of suspects is required. This applies both to Dutch law and to the treaties. In this context, it is questionable whether the Netherlands and Ukraine can agree together to depart from a treaty in force between them, namely the second additional protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, or whether they should first denounce that second additional protocol. The termination of the protocol is not an issue, because it is an important instrument for criminal cooperation with many countries in many other ways. The expression has already been used in a different context: then we are going to put the horse behind the cart. Or at least one mile to seven, if you know what I mean. What would we achieve by releasing the consent requirement? Without the consent of the suspect, no meaningful participation can be expected in a process involving videoconferencing. A suspect who's been tried against his will won't be willing to cooperate in that video interrogation. A suspect cannot be forced to declare, because he has the right to remain silent. The purpose of the application of videoconferencing is then only that the idea is visible, to the other participants in the criminal proceedings and to the audience present in the courtroom in the Netherlands. We still run the risk that the judge will actually find that only visible without consent is not in line with the conventions and other standards that the Netherlands and Ukraine are bound by. According to the applicable Dutch law, a suspect is still not, in principle, obliged to be present at his trial. I know that the government is preparing a bill to oblige certain suspects of serious crimes to attend the trial and judgment, but that is not yet a valid right. So it could not be included in the treaty we are talking about today. I believe that we should work together to ensure that the MH17 process does not become vulnerable by making different arrangements on this important issue. I think Mr Knapen said it very strikingly this morning: we should not bargain with demands from an international treaty in the bilateral treaty with Ukraine. I endorse that. The Dutch court shall decide on the application of videoconferencing to the trial. It remains to be seen whether the court would decide if the defendant did not agree to it and that consent by way of derogation from existing rules would not be required. In short, we can also run into the situation that we think we've arranged it but the Dutch judge says: I don't agree with it because of the rules of a fair trial. It is also not clear in advance how the Ukrainian judge would decide if a suspect would object there. Mrs Baay has asked questions about the injunction. Such an order from the Dutch court cannot as such be enforced in Ukraine. However, it may be relevant to the competent Ukrainian authorities, which are obliged to ensure that the suspect is actually present if he has agreed to stand trial by videoconference. The Dutch court cannot give orders to the Ukrainian authorities, but such an order may make it clear that the person concerned should appear in view of that consent. Mr President, I shall conclude on this point. As is well known, I have promised the House of Representatives to seek further advice on the consent requirement with a view to possible agreements to be concluded in the future. I will inform the House of Representatives by letter. That letter, I would like to undertake, will also be sent to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u41	It triggered me that the Minister indicated that the Ukrainian judge might object to this. Can the Minister give any outline of when the Ukrainian judge will be dealt with in this procedure? The whole trial was just handed over to the Dutch authorities, wasn't it? Maybe he can clarify that a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u42	That is correct, but I have also indicated that there can still be a test of whether there is a violation of fundamental principles of fair trial law. If this were the reverse Ukraine-Netherlands, it would always be a point for the Dutch court, and a suspect would be able to rely on it through his own national court or bring it to the attention of the public.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u43	So the defendant can actually invoke the Ukrainian judge throughout the trial when he or she believes that fundamental principles of Ukrainian criminal law are being violated?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u44	The Ukrainian authority present in the interrogation and trial may, however, check whether no fundamental principles of Ukrainian law are infringed in the course of the interrogation. That's part of a fair trial. I have also stressed that I am convinced that I am going to compliment you now, given the level of the Dutch judges and their professional commitment, this will not happen with Dutch judges. That is precisely why I believe that we should really be cautious and not put aside that consent requirement in such a bilateral treaty, if we simply know that this is in all kinds of treaties and our own law, where the judge may say: I am not participating in this. This aside, you can also simply say that it is not entirely part of what procedural law should be like. Mrs Strik raised the question of whether there could be a convention on civil liability. I have promised the House of Representatives to go into a letter about civil liability and possibilities for storytelling of the perpetrator or offenders abroad. I will also send that letter to your Chamber. I can say something about it. The court may, by means of criminal proceedings, award claims by the survivors for damages, taking into account compensation already received. You know Malaysia Airlines has already paid damages. If a compensation measure is imposed on the offender and he has not or has not paid the compensation in full within eight months of the date on which the judgment became final, the State shall pay the remaining amount to a surviving spouse and shall then be subrogated to the rights of redress against the offender. That is to say, they will then be transferred to the State. Of course, it will then be considered whether any possessions of that perpetrator can be seized. Mrs Strik further asked how we are going to monitor the enforcement of sanctions in Ukraine. Pursuant to Article 16, third paragraph of the bilateral agreement, the Ukrainian authorities are required to provide information to the Netherlands on the implementation and progress of the agreement upon request. Mrs Strik also asked where the results of the JIT investigation have so far led in the field of legal aid cooperation with Russia. On 24 May, the Joint Investigation Team shared the information that it connected that missile installation to the 53rd brigade on research results. The Joint Investigation Team has also indicated that the Russian Federation has never shared this information, which the Russian Federation was already obliged to do on the basis of UN Resolution 1266 alone, although it was also requested on the basis of legal aid questions. It is clear to the cabinet that the Russian Federation has not yet been sufficiently involved in finding the truth and thus obtaining justice for the 298 victims and their families. Mrs Strik asked: can suspects other than Ukrainian nationality be heard in the Netherlands? The constitutional ban on extradition of both the Russian Federation and Ukraine applies only to its own nationals. Ukrainians can be extradited by third countries. The same applies to Russian nationals. And Ukraine can also extradite people with a nationality other than Ukrainian. The question was whether the criminal investigation also included an investigation into the non-closure of airspace. No, not closing the airspace is not part of the Joint Investigation Team's investigation. That's what's investigating those responsible for taking down flight MH17. I do not think it is a good idea for me to reply to this question in the House of Commons. I was a little confused about what would appear in the Acts, but that is how I answered it clearly in the House of Representatives and now in your Chamber, I think. What international conventions exactly provide the basis for a discussion with Russia on the persecution and trial, apart from Resolution 2166.... I just said 1566.. from the UN Security Council by mistake? To which treaties are the Netherlands and Russia both parties? Well, the Netherlands and Russia are parties to various conventions on criminal cooperation. Let me mention them: the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters and the Additional Protocol, the European Convention on the Transfer of Criminal Matters, the European Convention on Extradition and two additional Protocols and the Convention on the Transfer of Judgments and Additional Protocol. Russia is not a party to the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters or to the European Convention on the International Validity of Criminal Judgments. But it seems to me that there are no less than four conventions on criminal cooperation. And then there's still this: I repeat, Security Council Resolution 2166. I think it is sufficiently clear that there was an obligation to provide legal aid. Mr Kuiper also asked about the question of English. There is the possibility of using the English language at the hearing. This has been included in the legislative proposal at the explicit request of the Judicial Council and the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is up to the judge dealing with the case to decide on the use of the English language. The starting point is that the process will take place in the Dutch language, which is in line with the case law of the Supreme Court. There is therefore no question of a whole process conducted in English. Mr Van Dijk spoke about appealing to the Ukrainian authorities to cooperate in the process and the fact that, within the scope of the rule of law, we are doing everything possible to get the suspects to speak. I have understood that as a question and I would like answers to that in the affirmative. The Netherlands will do everything in its power to appeal to the Ukrainian authorities for good cooperation. I also believe that this cooperation has so far been on all sides. Within the scope of the rule of law, we will do everything we can to get suspects to speak. Mr Van Dijk also asked if I have the impression that Russia is inclined to cooperate somewhat. And any further steps are being taken? I just gave you that whole list of international legal aid treaties. That's one. I referred to that Resolution 2166. Then we can already see that nothing has ever been delivered by the Russian Federation of that hard evidence that the Joint Investigation Team has provided about the missile installation of the 53rd Brigade. However, on the basis of these treaties, the Russian authorities will now be able to cooperate in the criminal investigation. Both the Joint Investigation Team and I have already expressed the wish and hope that this will happen from now on. A number of Members asked: should there not also be a treaty on criminal cooperation with Russia? Mr Knapen, Mr Ör and Mrs Baay asked for this. When is there an attempt to conclude a treaty with Russia on criminal cooperation? Now it is true that there was a real reason for concluding a treaty with Ukraine. That was the transfer of criminal proceedings. Subsequently, the need to reach agreements on other issues was examined with Ukraine. Well, that's different with the Russian Federation, isn't it? There were no victims of Russian nationality and MH17 was not brought down over Russian territory. Should the developments in the criminal investigation give rise to this, the Netherlands is certainly prepared to discuss any further criminal cooperation with the Russian Federation. But I repeat, so far, the Russian Federation has not complied with its obligations under the various legal aid treaties and United Nations Resolution 2166. Mr Delors asked what the words "to be held accountable" and "to be held accountable" actually meant. I sincerely hope that I will not disappoint him as a language purist, but of course I will give him the compliment of language purist and not of myself. I must admit that there is no difference of meaning. In both cases, the material meaning of criminal prosecution has actually been indicated. This is partly criminal liability, but it is also criminal liability. The terms are thus mutually exclusive and are material expressions of the importance of criminal prosecution. He also asked whether bilateral agreements could be envisaged with other countries of the Joint Investigation Team, as was also done with Ukraine. The conclusion of the treaty is linked to the decision to prosecute and prosecute MH17 in connection with the taking down of flight MH17 in the Netherlands. The criminal prosecution can then cover all victims and thus give all relatives the same position. I have just indicated to you that this offers possibilities for survivors to claim compensation in that Dutch trial, in so far as they would not already be received or have been received elsewhere. With regard to the other countries of the Joint Investigation Team, there is no similar reason for entering into a bilateral agreement. Those other countries confirmed their support for the prosecution and trial in the Netherlands by signing a political memorandum of understanding in September 2017. He also asked about the position of the Malaysian Government and asked on what grounds the Malaysian Minister of Transport made his well-known statement "no conclusive evidence." Well, Malaysia is fully committed to the Joint Investigation Team and to the objective of truth finding and justice. Malaysia issued a declaration on 25 May, but also on 5 June, to remove any ambiguity following the statements of the new Minister for Transport. It was also said at that time that the Joint Investigation Team would take the time to study the results of the Joint Investigation Team. We are in contact with Malaysia on this issue and we look forward to good cooperation with the new government of Malaysia. When one goes to so-called close reading, I come back to the language purist who is Mr Ottoman, then one can see that the Malaysian Minister of Transport has actually just said I have kept the article on my phone that the conclusions of the Joint Investigation Team do not prove that Russia has fired the rocket with which MH17 was shot down, or that Russia is not responsible for that. So he actually ignores what was just the conclusion, namely that the rocket installation of the 53rd brigade was used. Mr President, I believe that I am through the questions of your Chamber and that my first term has therefore been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u45	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for the clear answer, although I do miss a few things. I had a few more questions about the airspace. The Minister was not so clear about the closure of airspace. For example, three days before the MH17 was taken down, it was known that there was heavy defence guns in the wrong hands in this area. The vice ambassador of the Netherlands had that information. My question was whether anything was done to bring down the MH17 with this information. I haven't gotten the answer to that yet. Suppose the Dutch Government had this information, what did it do with it? For the rest, I would like to say to the Minister that it will be a difficult criminal trial that will drag on for years. In any case, we wish the people concerned much wisdom and strength and we will vote in favour of the two legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u47	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u48	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. As I said in my first term, I congratulate the government on its approach so far. We are entering virtually unknown territory, so it is extremely complicated for the government to make the right choices. I have said that the choices made so far are the best in the circumstances. The trial is done by a Dutch judge. That requires the concession to do so with videoconferencing. That is the best possible under the circumstances. I also think that we should see this process as a unique one. I agree with the Minister that we should not make too far-reaching statements about what we generally think about videoconferencing. In this case, we need it. If we don't do it, I could only imagine one other figure, and that's kind of the variant of Lockerbie. That is that the Dutch judge resides in Ukraine. That will then be very complex, because then we will have Dutch territory in Ukraine. That might be possible, but then the suspects won't be there, and neither will the witnesses. Then there is a sort of dividing line: here sits the judge and there are those who need to be heard. So I like the choice. At the same time, I will continue to stress this. The chances of the process leading to success are extremely, extremely low. That's no reason not to, but we have to keep an eye on it. The Prime Minister's promise to do justice and to give satisfaction as much as possible to the next of kin is binding on us all, precisely because it is such a long-term issue. Between the Lockerbie attack and the first day of the criminal trial, there were 12 years. During this period, many people have said: insane, it will never happen and we will never get anyone in court. Eventually, we did it. That process also deserves no mention because it was such a great process, but it has happened. We have done justice to the victims, but we have done a great deal more than that. That is what I am saying to the government, that there are still many steps to be taken in bringing the criminal proceedings to the best possible conclusion and also to do more. There are other trials. The government opened it. I think that is important, and I also think that we should talk about it. The solution we have found is that we will discuss it further with the Minister and with the Foreign Minister. I think that is a good one, because that too is virtually unknown territory. And yet, I have listened to what experts have said in this area: the path of state liability might lead to limited satisfaction towards relatives. That's not much, but I know from other reasons how much it can sometimes mean that you can do something compared to doing nothing. So I think that should be investigated. The Minister is for that. I can imagine that we would have an oral discussion on this with the Minister and his colleague for Foreign Affairs. I hope the Minister will tell us when Ukraine's parliament is actually going to ratify. I hope that is indeed Wednesday. It would be important if we could receive a report on this, because I also know that Ukraine's parliament often goes on vacation quickly and for a long time. It would be very unfortunate if this still had to be done in between. It's always a little more bodily than it is here. That is why my question to the Minister was: is he aware that a party, right or wrong, would argue that it is rather a far-reaching step to give up jurisdiction, and that Ukraine does not normally do so? I hope he will inform us as soon as the decision has been taken in Parliament, because without ratification on that side of Europe, everything will stop and we will not be able to go on. That's why I asked: do we have any contact with Russia? For we know that it did not happen above Russia, but we do know that the material used is Russian and that there is a good chance that perpetrators may have a relationship with Russia. We also know that the Russian constitution offers the same problem or protection as the Ukrainian constitution. Nor will the Russians hand anyone over to Ukraine. So we will have to think about that, of course under the premise that Russia is willing to cooperate, but on the basis of Resolution 2166 Russia must cooperate, the whole world must cooperate. Then we'll have to bring it up. Again, in the end, we have done business with the Libyan Government. This was a more problematic government compared to the Russian government. We have achieved results there. I also think it is very good to consider a third course of justice. Vladimirov spoke about it on television. It didn't sound so great, but he said: in practice, it is ultimately the most likely to have any comparison with the states concerned, not recognizing their responsibility, but being prepared to do something about it. This is almost a distasteful way of dealing with a process, but here too, the importance of the next of kin must be paramount for us. Could the Minister check that out? He doesn't have to tell us that here, but I hope we're also trying to investigate the third course of justice. Again, time can't be a problem because we're years ahead of this case in its next phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u49	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u50	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. There are still a few things that are open to me or which I might want some more clarity about. I have indeed spoken about the fact that the criminal proceedings are being carried out in Ukraine. The Minister has already indicated that the Dutch criminal rules apply. That is very good, but we still depend on how the Ukrainian authorities implement them. My question was also in the first term: are we, as the Netherlands, responsible if these procedural rules are violated, or for the way in which the Ukrainian authorities deal with them? This also applies, for example, to the circumstances in which they are in remand. So what about the responsibility of the Netherlands in that? Furthermore, the Minister also said that we are only going to consider whether we are going to conclude a treaty with Russia if that is the case. The Minister corrected the D66 spokesperson somewhat by saying that all we know is that the missile installation is Russian made. But that's something. This indicates that there seems to be a lead for further criminal investigations in Russia on how that was done. It is certainly not possible to rule out any interference from the Russian authorities. So the question is: when is the time to say: now we are going to think about further cooperation with Russia? Then there's the point about airspace. I do not share the Minister's impression that he did not say that in the Lower House. In response to the De Roon motion, which calls on the government to extend the criminal investigation to the closure of airspace, or the non-closure of airspace, the Minister has indicated that this is unnecessary, because the criminal investigation extends across the board to responsibility for bringing down the MH17. Unfortunately, I forgot to bring my reading glasses, but the chairman really supports us in every way, because she now gives me a reading glasses. In his response, Minister Grapperhaus actually says that three times. First he says it's unnecessary because it's already in there. I'm getting my own glasses handed over now. No, but this one's perfect, Kees, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u51	HEMA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u52	The strength is about 2, huh? Or 2.5?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u53	No, no, no, 1.5.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u54	Okay. Then my eyes aren't so bad. But in the end Minister Grapperhaus also says: "I will say it very quietly once more. The criminal investigation is aimed at detecting and preparing for prosecution cases against those who are wholly or partially responsible for taking down flight MH17. We should not put the Joint Investigation Team on any clause in that broad assignment." That sounds to me like: that's in there too. Because if that air space had been closed, it wouldn't have happened in the end. So I'd like to get some further explanations on this. How does this relate to the commission of the criminal investigation? Finally, Mr President. Thank you for the commitment on the letter on the special scheme for civil liability. Once again, we are in favour of an arrangement that is as accessible and as easy as possible for the next of kin, so that they do not have to be sent from the locker to the wall. We are pleased that, hopefully, we can agree to this bill here today so that at least before the summer this first step has been taken. But we also very much agree with Mr Kox that we would very much like to talk more broadly about an integrated strategy to clarify the responsibility for bringing down the MH17. There are more possibilities that are not within the scope of the law now, but which we would like to see. We assume that the government has a comprehensive integrated strategy. We would like to discuss this with the government at a later date. Thank you. And thank you so much for borrowing the glasses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm still wearing my glasses, so that's gonna be fine in this term. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions and for being careful. My group, the Christian Union Group, will support both legislative proposals. I had already indicated that in the first period. I believe that important steps are being taken here. There is one thing that remains to be discussed in this debate. I also asked questions about it in my first term. We are now quite exactly in realising a cooperation with Ukraine, which is good; that is now taking this form, but it remains somewhat unsatisfactory that there is a lack of information on how the relationship with Russia can be shaped at the moment. For now, it's all about tracking. That is, of course, the first stage we are talking about. My question was just a moment ago, on which Russia is really accessible under treaties that we or Europe and Russia are party to together. There is, of course, something in it that you are not unobligatory. Pressure can be built towards Russia. I know that this is politically complicated as long as Russia says it has not been proven at all and denies its own involvement in the disaster, in bringing down MH17. Of course, they want to hold on to that political line. At the same time, as a member of the international community, we must also be more able to deal with legal persecution across national borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u57	Do you think about time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u58	I only had one minute, I think. I see I have a few seconds left. But this was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u59	No, no, no, you've been over it for a minute!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u60	Oh, excuse me. Anyway, here's my point. I would like the Minister to go into that one more time. That is also in line with what colleagues have already said. For the rest, our support. Good luck with the sequel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u61	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My eyes were lasered last year, so I hope to be able to do without glasses. Mr. Chairman. The way in which the Dutch cabinet is committed to finding out the truth about the MH17 disaster and the search for justice for victims and relatives demands respect. In this way, our government takes the lives of its citizens extremely seriously. With this she also fulfills a vocation, which she has obtained in my eyes from the Higher Hand. That is no less true of the cabinet's pursuit of justice in this matter. The commitment of the Netherlands to its citizens, victims and survivors is, in this sense, an example for many other countries. I thank the Minister for his clear answer. We wish him a great deal of stamina and wisdom in the continuation of this complex exercise. The SGP would like to support both legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u63	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mr Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u64	Mr. Chairman. I too agree with the thanks given to the Minister and the Cabinet. We are all aware that there have been all kinds of explanations today that may not have been strictly within the framework of these two proposals. I've made myself guilty of that, too. But that is understandable in some sense, because it is a subject that is not so often raised here but that we are all inversely high. Mr Kox has pointed out in detail how difficult it is to put a satisfactory end to this on the basis of many examples from the past. At the same time, I think this makes it clear that we are all continuing to pursue this. In fact, I think we can say, in addition to appreciation of the cabinet's commitment, that this Chamber sets a new exclamation mark behind the determination that we want to continue to show in the direction of truth finding and justice. I wish the cabinet good luck with that in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u65	Thank you, Mr. Knapen. I give the floor to Mr Dankert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u66	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister in particular for his answers to our questions. I thought this debate was very useful, but it is clear that it needs to be continued. We thank the government for its actions today. I also have to say, of course, that we will vote in favour of the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. I give the floor to Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u68	Mr. Chairman. I, too, thank the Minister for his reply. I would like to make a further comment on the Minister's remark that Ukrainian law might still have an influence on the trial of a suspect, because it is precisely in the treaty that Dutch law is applicable. Mr Strik mentioned this for a while. My specific question is: is Ukrainian law possibly only applicable to the issue of a fair trial? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u69	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Do you have an opportunity to answer directly, at least when the cathedral arrives? Would you have the opportunity to do so? That's the case. Coca-Cola's on its way, too. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u70	Mr. Chairman. I am not so much expressing my gratitude, but I note that your Chamber is in great agreement on the importance and significance of this treaty and this legislative proposal. That is an important support in the back. I'll skip Mrs Faber for a moment, but I'll be right back to her question. First of all, I should like to comment on a point made by Mr Kox. I have taken the liberty of questioning them somewhat, because he said something about a low chance of success. I don't know what success means in this case. I don't mean this wrong with Mr. Kox, but I think we're all looking for justice. This can sometimes be found in the fact that we do not accept what has happened and that we are determined to track down and prosecute. I had already stated that before Mr Knapen said that word. I think that's why it's about the cabinet or the government. I would like to have said this out loud again, thanks to Mr Kox, through you, Mr President, because he also raised that point. Then I come to a number of points which were clearly questioned. First of all, Mrs Faber wondered what had been done with the information of 14 July about Kiev and the Antonov. That information was shared with the relevant ministries on the same day. As I said, this briefing in Kiev was not about civil aviation safety, but about Russia's activities in eastern Ukraine. The shooting down of the Antonov posed no threat to civil aviation. The Security Research Council has examined this in detail. You will find this on page 253 of the report of 22 October 2015. I quote: "It is unlikely that the Antonov was shot down by a powerful air defense system." Mrs Strik asked a number of questions. She asked about the Dutch responsibility for the conditions in the Ukrainian prison. I thought I had actually said something about that, but perhaps that was a little too implicit in the light of the questions. The Dutch Government has agreed that the Ukrainian Government will inform on request about the implementation and how all this takes place. Of course, the Netherlands is not formally responsible for this detention, but the way in which detention and detention conditions are conducted can of course have an impact. We, as a government, will therefore continue to discuss these detention conditions with Ukraine. I would like to point out that Ukraine is also truly bound by the ECHR, the European Convention on Human Rights. Then I'll be right on to Mrs Baay's point. She asked a question about Ukrainian law, which would affect the trial. This does not apply to Ukrainian law as such. It is only a question of whether, if a trial were to take place through a videoconference, then if the defendant had agreed to it, then no fundamental principles of Ukrainian law would be infringed in that trial. Those are the rules of the European Convention on Human Rights. So we're actually looking at the same standards in a mirror image. Mrs Strik asked when the time had come to reflect on further cooperation. This question has actually been raised by Mr Kuiper: why has Russia not already been reminded of their obligations? Isn't that something Russia should be talking about? Russia is of course aware of the findings of the Joint Investigation Team. If I may put it that way, Russia has a standing invitation to cooperate and to simply provide legal assistance where Russia has an obligation to do so and can also provide meaningful legal assistance. This could have been done, for example, by reporting that a missile installation of the 53rd brigade has been used. What is the time to think about further cooperation? In itself, of course, the government is almost constantly considering whether there should be further cooperation, but as long as the standing invitation remains unanswered by the Russian Federation, it is in any case difficult to set up this cooperation on fact-finding. That does not alter the fact that developments can certainly occur, for example with regard to potential parties involved in the destruction of the MH17 through more findings in the investigation, which would lead us to the Russian Federation on that point, but I have already indicated this in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u71	"A standing invitation" still sounds a little passive. Our cabinet found a few weeks ago that Russia did not cooperate sufficiently with the investigation. I imagine that you will not say 'there is JIT, there is a standing invitation and they know about it', but that Russia too, through diplomatic channels, is primarily in Europe, but also, for example, under that UN resolution, strongly pointed out the obligation to cooperate under agreements. What exactly does that look like? 'Cause this sounds a little passive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u72	Of course, standing is not passive, but it is true that, of course, diplomatic channels have often called for it. I do not know whether "eating evil cherries" is linguistically the right expression; I look at Mr Schaap through the chairman. It has been said several times to the Russian Federation that she has been invited to help us. Let us not forget that the Russian Federation was still involved in research at the beginning. However, at some point it is quite clear that despite some of the international legal obligations I have listed, the most simple and clear for the people at home of UN Resolution 2166, even though you repeat this every time and even though the Joint Investigation Team has said so out loud in international traffic when presenting the evidence. There has really been enough opportunity for the Russian Federation to say at some point: here we are. I would also like to make it quite clear here. Mr Kuiper's point that we certainly need to repeat it through diplomatic channels, I certainly take it to heart, as far as we are not doing it. But it is, of course, and remains, that it must also come from the other side at some point. And that is not the case at the moment. I have another question from Mrs Strik on airspace. We may have a little misunderstanding about that. I certainly said in the House of Representatives that the investigation into criminal responsibility for and involvement in bringing down MH17 is wide, and that nothing should remain beyond the scope of the investigation. However, I have also said in the House of Representatives, and I repeat to you today, that there is currently no basis for the government to make a state statement on the issue of airspace on the basis of what is now known.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u73	Mrs. Strik, you may make one more interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u74	I understand what the Minister is saying, because we are still at the beginning of the criminal investigation. But can I understand the Minister in such a way that it could possibly be part of the criminal investigation, should more indications emerge from it? It depends on what you're gonna focus on during the criminal investigation. In the case of one of the research questions, this could eventually result in information giving rise to such a decision or step. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u75	That's what I've been saying. It cannot be ruled out at all that, in the context of the criminal investigation, which focuses on the question of who is responsible for, or involved in, the taking down of MH17, circumstances arise that lead to partial claims in certain areas. That's not out of the question. Again, it is wide, just as I indicated in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u76	So including...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u77	Mrs. Strik, that one sentence, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u78	So, including not closing the airspace in time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u79	Including... I didn't understand that last word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u80	Yes, I must repeat it now, Mr President! Including the failure to close the airspace in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u81	Let me put it another way: we're not ruling anything out. I think you shouldn't start naming things in an ongoing investigation and give them some kind of heaviness. Here's what I want to say. The Joint Investigation Team, in which the Dutch Public Prosecutor plays a very important role, does a broad, nothing exclusive criminal investigation. Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna take a quick look at my pieces. I believe that I have answered questions from the second term, but I do not want to make anyone wrong. So that would mean I'm at the end of my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-16.u83	I have come to deal with the legislative proposals. I'll do that by bill. Would any of the Members like to vote on the 34915 bill? That is not the case. Then the bill is accepted. Anybody want a note? That is not the case either. Would any of the Members like to vote on the 34916 bill? That is not the case either. Then that bill is also accepted. Anybody want a note? That is not the case either. Then I'll suspend the dinner break meeting.
