ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u1	Let us now turn to Mrs Sazias' question on behalf of 50PLUS to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, whom I would also like to welcome, about the news that caregivers with a false diploma would be working in the district care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Health care agency Allerzorg recently reported for the fourth time fraud in care by unqualified district nurses. There are two types of fraud: people who are working with a forged diploma and qualified district nurses who allow an unauthorized person to work with vulnerable people. Both situations are equally repulsive when a pacifier medication has to be administered to a terminally ill person. These aren't incidents. The Health Inspectorate has received seven reports since last year and there have been many signs of this fraud. So maybe this is just the tip of the iceberg. My question to the Minister is whether he has an idea of the true extent of this problem and, if not, whether he is prepared to investigate it. More importantly, what measures is he going to take to ensure that this is out of the world as soon as possible? We are also curious about the prosecution of these fraudsters, because in addition to committing identity fraud or diploma fraud, lives may also be endangered. Shouldn't this also be punished more severely? And, also very important, how do we ensure that these fraudsters, after they've been caught, don't just go back to work somewhere else? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for Mrs Sazias' questions. I very much agree with her that diploma fraud in health care, where the diplomas are part of all the guarantees we have to ensure that the quality of care is good and responsible, is extremely wrong. The first question I understand very well, namely: explain how big that issue could be. We know that four reports have been received by the CIBG, the club keeping the BIG register, and seven reports have been received by the Health Inspectorate. On the basis of these numbers, I would not dare say that it is a common issue. At the same time, at least one is too much, so you have to look carefully at what to do about it. The most important is alert employers, who not only ask for a diploma but also check in the diploma register at DUO, where a register is kept of all diplomas that have been obtained, whether the diploma is correct and whether the diploma is correct. This can and should be checked by an employer at the time he starts a job application procedure. At the moment when there is hesitation, doubts and the diploma is found to be inadequate, it is possible for staff covered by disciplinary law to report it to the CIBG. With other employees or with all employees at all, it is possible to report this to the Health Care Inspectorate. At the nationalmeldpuntzorg.nl anyone can report any hesitation he has. Subsequently, the Health Inspectorate has the option to opt for a disciplinary process or administrative enforcement, for an administrative fine. In the seven cases under investigation, two have already led to an administrative penalty path. The others are still under investigation. There may also be a declaration from the inspection. Declaration can also be done immediately of course. Then the question is whether there is identity fraud or falsehood in writing. Well, that's the offense. On that basis, the verdict is then up to the D.A.'s office. The question is also how to prevent a person who has already been convicted or who has gone wrong from getting back to work. For that, it is important that we have alert employers. In addition to the diploma register, it is of course also possible for employers to join the alert register. That's even a very good idea. This has been an initiative of a number of employers. In fact, all employers should join in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u5	I understand what the Minister is saying about these alert employers, especially when it comes to identity fraud, in the sense that the diplomas must be checked. That's what's gonna happen. But there are also people with a degree who then let someone else do the work for a few tens a day. That's another matter. This also requires alert employers. But apparently it is not enough, because in 2009 there were signs that this was frequent. V&VN reported this, the prosecution also carried out investigations in 2014 and it still exists. I think there should be an extra tooth in order to prevent this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u6	What I understand is that in the past there has indeed been a number of enforcement actions. Anyone other than the person who has the contract of employment with the employer in question having the work done is simply a form of a change of identity, of identity fraud, which is punishable. This can and must be reported and then dealt with. That's how it's been dealt with already. Frankly, I wouldn't know what you'd have to put on top of that, apart from the fact that the reports of course have to come in. I cannot say on the basis of the number of reports that this is a common issue. When I see the number of notifications, four notifications to the CIBG, seven at the Health and Youth Inspectorate, I am inclined to say that it is not a common issue, a very big issue. Is this complete? Here too, I hesitate to say that. I'd say it's really a matter of an alert employer. Anyone who hesitates, who suspects that something is not right, must act. These reports can then be done with anything, including declarations. Once authorities like the inspection or the police know that this is happening, action can also be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you. Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What we often encounter in healthcare is, of course, that the inspection does not always have a view of who gets involved in care and whether it is always of good will. The vast majority of them are of course, but unfortunately there are also people who work in health care or start a business that has bad intentions. Does the Minister now feel that the inspection has sufficient capacity to have these people on time and also to actively combat them, or should they be more focused on them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u9	My impression is that the inspection is adequately manned. If you get seven reports, on that basis, I'm afraid to say it's a common problem. But I also dare not say: this is exactly the number of cases that have actually played, with which they are one hundred percent in the picture. I wouldn't say that. These seven reports can be picked up perfectly by the inspection and they are also arrested. Two have already led to a fine and the other five are still under investigation. My view is not that it is the size of the inspection or the number of people who have the inspection at their disposal to deal with these reports and take them seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u10	Let us point out that fortunately there are a lot of well-qualified people working in healthcare in the Netherlands. It's about how we deal with these charlatans and fraudsters. The Minister states that he is not sure if he himself has a complete picture, and the inspection also indicates this. Can the Minister make it clear how he can manage to ensure that all these institutions are notified and that these institutions will automatically make sure that the declarations also go to the inspection so that we can get an idea and do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u11	What matters is alert employers. That is what Mr De Lange says. If they doubt the authenticity of the diploma, if they doubt the competence of a person who has such a diploma, they must be in order, but in practice they do not appear to be in order. That's what it starts with. Without that notification, no other authority can do anything, and there is not an inspector next to it every day; that cannot be done. So we have to make sure that employers are alert. That diploma register is just easy to consult, for everyone. The reports are easy to do at the inspection, for everyone, including the professionals. What really helps is that Care & Wellness Warning Register. There is also my supplementary action, because not all employers are yet connected to it. This way you prevent someone who has been put on the boulders with someone else, from getting back to work in healthcare. Of course, that's what it takes to keep these people out. That's what the alert registry is for. I believe that every employer should be associated with this. That's not true yet, so we have real work to do there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u12	I have heard the Minister say the word 'alert employers' about six or seven times. Now the Minister knows as well as I do that there is, of course, sometimes a relationship between a client and a health care provider directly, without an employer being involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u13	I'm glad you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u14	But sometimes an employer plays a very peculiar role in this. It only emerged that Bulgarian home care workers of Bulgarian home care organisations do not have diplomas. There's no alert employer there. At best it's so alert...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u15	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u16	...that it allows all kinds of abuses to exist. Shouldn't the minister just be more alert and intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u17	That's just a form of fraud. If that is the case, it is simply a form of fraud. We have a huge instrument box on the table to deal with this fraud. We're gonna fill that toolbox even further. We have a number of legislative proposals in preparation. Some of them are already in your room. It concerns, among other things, the extension of the Information Node Care Fraud and a legally required alert registry that is another alert registry for the exchange of this kind of signals about fraud in care. So we're gonna do a lot of work with unlawful care. We are going to talk a great deal about this. So sure, all those steps need to be taken, but the point is that you only know those cases you know about. It's about the signals you're getting. That is why it begins with the fact that anyone who has that type of signal actually transmits it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u18	Identity fraud is serious. I can tell that people are worried, including family. What could people possibly do? Although the number is not large, there is a kind of insecure feeling, because the impact is of course enormous. My question to the Minister is: what can people do themselves if they have a sense of non-flavor? How can they check something themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u19	That's a good point. If people themselves have that kind of doubts, they can contact the Landelijk Meldpunt Zorg of the inspection. This is approachable for everyone via the nationalmeldpuntzorg.nl or on 088-1205020. I thought I'd just say it right away. If you think that an account is being tampered with and that there is more on the declaration to your health insurance provider than you have had to worry about, you should always contact your health insurance. It can explain whether it is true or not, and it is of course also very alert in accounts that are not properly filed. So people can contact the health insurance company or the national health care department.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u20	For many years we have been very concerned in this house about people who, after they have fooled things, just go back to work with the next employer within the care. Many years ago we came to a blacklist, to the Care & Wellness Alert Register, but I hear the Minister now saying that not all the institutions are connected. I am actually very shocked, because sometimes we think in this house that we have arranged things and later it turns out to be a blank. I therefore have the following questions to the Minister. By when are these institutions all connected? And by when do we get a functioning blacklist so that people really get cut off at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u21	In the case of diploma fraud, the first check is made at the front, without a warning register. An employer just asks that question and says, "Let me see your diploma." That's the first way to get rid of this type of diploma fraud. The second is that you really must avoid creating a sort of revolving door in which someone who is put on the boulders of one employer can go back in with the other employer. That's what that alert registry is very important for. The alert register is also important from the fraud side. You should be able to keep parties in the care that have been tampering with money out too. So that's what we're seeing on the contract. A health insurance company or a health care office or a municipality should never work with that again. That's that alert registry. It's legally anchored. I think that bill's already in the Chamber. The second warning register is the Care & Wellness Warning Register. That is an initiative of employers among themselves, but I think that you also think that all employers should be involved. That is not the case at the moment, so I am talking to employers about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u22	Second question, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u23	Not only do I think that; I was also under the assumption that it was. Not by this minister, but also by his predecessors, I have had a number of cases of 'no, Mrs Agema, who has been blacklisted'. Now I hear from the new minister: 'Yes, but not all employers are in on it'. That is very regrettable, because every time we think we've arranged something in this house and then it turns out we haven't. The Minister is now committed to making every effort to ensure that all the institutions join. I would like to hear the Minister say how much for that, but I would like to hear it from the Minister on when, otherwise we will be back in oral Question Time in five years' time and it will not be settled again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u24	I think it is right for me to work with my intention to ensure that as many employers as possible, actually all employers, join the Care & Wellness Warning Register. Let me say that I will keep you informed of its progress. Let me do that in the autumn. I will then inform you of the arrangements that have been made and of any part of the employers who are actually members of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u25	It seems very good to me to take those steps around the alert register. Let's get back to the people who can have a sense of non-flavor or who don't really trust the place. The Minister's giving the phone number now. I believe that there are quite a few people watching Question Time, but I am sure not all the people with whom this is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u26	A lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u27	A lot, yeah; I think so too. Just not enough. So my question to the Minister is whether he can do anything to inform people even better about this, regardless of what is being said here in Question Time. This can be played by a lot of people who simply are not aware of the fact that they can report it to the inspection or to their health insurance provider.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u28	Of course, that's not so easy, because you can hardly fill the bus booths with posters with the text "please call your health insurance provider if you have any doubts about the bill." But we do pay attention to this in all the expressions that are about unlawful care to the hotlines that there are. When I see how many calls they make, it's not like they're unknown. Not everyone will know that song by heart; I don't believe that either. But if you have any doubts and make them discussable, the reporting point of the inspection is of course very well known in the care. I would be inclined to think that there is sufficient publicity. But if you have a useful suggestion for that, I am very much in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u31	I see that the Minister of the Interior is now present. You're very welcome.
