ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u1	We will continue with the debate on the European Summit on 13 and 14 December 2018. We had arrived at the government's response. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The division of roles is as follows: The Minister of Finance, Wopke Hoekstra, will address all questions about EMU and instruments aimed at competitiveness and convergence. He will also address questions on Italy's budgetary difficulties. Thirdly, he referred to the Court's calculations on the cost of Brexit. And his fourth point is about Customs' preparations for Brexit. On the other questions about Brexit, including the preparations, I will deal with them myself. I actually have four major issues: Brexit, MFF, asylum and migration policy, and climate. And besides, I have a bunch of loose questions. So, autopsy's stuck. Here we go. Brexit. At that point. Oh, I see Mrs. Leijten at the interrupting microphone. I've told you a lot too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u3	The Prime Minister has now spoken for one minute, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u4	And all I've been talking about is the procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u5	And only about the construction of his speech. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u6	Yes, Mr President, and I have a comment or a question on that. So it's procedural, too. I have asked extensively about the reconstruction of what exactly was decided in the context of that euro area budget. And I asked what is actually the task of the Prime Minister. That's unclear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u7	So you want to know?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u8	I would also like to ask the Prime Minister about this. But if Minister Hoekstra isn't going to explain that until the Prime Minister is ready, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u9	Then here's what we're gonna do, Mr. Chairman, if that's okay with you. I'll make you a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u10	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u11	We'll keep my order. But when Mr Hoekstra is finished, Mrs Leijten may be thinking: but now I want to hear from Rutte whether he agrees. In that case, she can ask me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u12	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u13	The answer will then be yes. It'll be fixed soon. I'd like to say a few things about Brexit, Mr. Chairman. The situation is complicated; that is clear. We do not know how things are going today, again with the votes on the leadership of the Conservative Party. What we do know is that there is no room for renegotiation. We have all said this to the British colleague. The question is, of course, whether you can help the British by clarifying exactly what is meant by the exit agreement and the political declaration. But there too, of course, space is limited. Maybe I should build it up like this. One of Mrs Leijten's questions was: why this impossible deal? It was a completely neutral question that she asked at the beginning of her speech. But it is a good question, because he is triggering me to outline once again that there are actually four red lines in the game along which we had to look for a solution that led to the exit agreement. There was one red line of the European Union and the United Kingdom together, namely: no hard border in Ireland. Then there were three red lines of the UK: no border in the Irish Sea, no membership of the customs union and no free movement. If you add all that up, it turns out that Swiss, Norwegian and such models are all no longer possible. Yeah, then you finally get into what we have now, which is, we're gonna see how we're gonna build the new relationship. As we look at that, the current situation continues for a while. And when the current situation comes to an end, we will have to have certain assurances, especially with regard to the Irish border. That's him in the back stop. So that is not attractive, not for the United Kingdom, but it is not in the interests of the European Union itself; it is very important to restore some confidence to the British parliamentarians who are afraid of such a non-good faith negotiating European Union. There is no motive for the European Union to continue to hold England in that backstop for longer than necessary. That's just to the question why this outcome, and immediately after that why it's so important to make it clear to each other what we mean by that backstop and that it's not meant forever. In that context, Mr Stoffer asked: do you have an eye for the concerns about that backstop? Oh, yeah. I understand the concern in the British Parliament, of course. But if I do not, even with the British Prime Minister, what are the red lines, whether one is willing to move on one of those red lines and the answer is no, then there is nothing else to think about. He's a handsome guy who thinks of something smarter. Mr Van Rooijen asked about the vote in the British Conservative Party. We have to wait and see how it ends tonight. Let's not speculate on that. There were a number of more specific questions about Brexit, for example Mr Verhoeven on the nationality issue but above all on how to deal with citizens over and over again. The Netherlands in the United Kingdom should be granted a right of residence. That is part of the whole agreement with the United Kingdom. British nationality is not necessary to obtain such a right of residence. That's what they get as Dutch. Therefore, I do not think it is necessary now to introduce some kind of emergency law on dual nationality. This is a right of residence, which I believe is now well regulated in the exit agreement. Of course, a lot of questions have been asked about the follow-up process. Of course, there are a lot of variants of what can happen now. Will the British Parliament make a decision before Christmas? Do they do that after Christmas? Is that decision on the agreement that lies ahead positive or negative? I told you, I just don't think it's possible to change that agreement. So if it's rejected, what do you do? I do not think there is much point in speculating about all these variants here. The fact is that in Britain there is a kind of dead line at 21 January. If British parliamentary treatment were to go beyond that, it would be almost impossible to reach the end of March as a retirement date. In the meantime, the Court of Justice in Luxembourg has also ruled on whether England can unilaterally stop the Brexit. The answer to that appears to be yes. As I understand it, however, lawyers are better at doing so, they cannot unilaterally decide to postpone the date. If they wish to postpone that date for a few months, that is another question of unanimity with the 27 countries that are moving forward; it is not a question of parliaments but of governments. My feeling would be: if such a question arises, depending on the circumstances under which that question arises, which we can now only look at speculatively, it will be viewed in itself, but of course only if the pressure makes it necessary. Then a lot of questions about the preparations on our side. Mr Hoekstra will be addressing the question of customs shortly. Furthermore, we have mapped out as best as possible the measures to be taken to avoid distortions due to exit, both in a deal and in a no-deal scenario. That applies to all departments. On 13 November, the European Commission also published a whole Contenty Action Plan. An appreciation of that has also gone to the Chamber. We continue to work on all the scenarios, including no deal, without prejudice to the cabinet and the Commission, all the governments and the European Commission. I will not tire of you with all the official abbreviations, but I will mention some of them: the Coordination Unit for Contentancy Planning and Preparedness, the Interdepartmental Working Party on Contingency Planning and the High-level Conference on Contingence. Those are trusting terms, I think!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u14	On the previous point: we have seen this statement that one can cancel the whole thing unilaterally. I do not see any Union interest in not saying that it can be postponed. I can imagine that could help, both on our side and on the other side of the Channel. Is it not wise to talk to colleagues about this and to make it clear to the British in any way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u15	Yeah, possibly. The point is: if you are going to make that very big, which would make the news that my contribution to this debate is that I have emphasised once again the possibility of moving the date for a few months, it cannot be helpful again, depending on how the pressure builds up in England is exactly. So, in fact, it's true. Let us therefore stick to a factual observation. I told you, I expect everyone to take a benevolent look at it, if it's needed in a scenario where, if you do it, you also have a view of a solution and if you don't do it, you have a view of a hard Brexit. I think that benevolence will be there. But I want to be careful, because before you know it, it's going to be a kind of appeal: the Dutch Prime Minister is calling for a delay of a few months. I would like to avoid that, because I might not be helping the British Government with that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u16	I think I understand that very well. I am not asking for that call either, but in the view that the European Union is trying to punish the UK and try to enforce all kinds of things through a no-dealbrexit, it is important that it is clear that not only a legal ruling will allow them to cancel it, but also that if the British want them to have more time. There is now a danger of an accident in which a no-dealbrexit can be created on all sides by a clumsy maneuverer, which is in nobody's interest anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u17	I just can't say that on behalf of 27 governments. I can only say that my suspicion is that, if the scenario occurs and there is a prospect of a solution, one will say: we are going to look at it benevolently and seriously and probably do so. I just want to keep it so vague, because otherwise I'm really afraid that's gonna work counter-irregular again. But I think we're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u18	On the same point: in all keys it has been said that renegotiating will not happen. But I believe you just used the word "clear." I heard elsewhere that it was about helping the British Prime Minister get the agreement through the House of Commons. It's possible. What could we possibly be thinking about? What kind of support could the Prime Minister give to the British Prime Minister in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u19	These are public debates. If I am going to say something about this, it may not be that the whole world understands Dutch for the same money picked up by Bloomberg or Reuters, who, as you know, are in The Hague with often Dutch correspondents who quickly transfer it to English. If I'm gonna speculate on what might help her, I'm not gonna help her. Let us say that the misunderstanding I have just mentioned about the backstop and that it may be attractive for Europe to keep England in such a backstop forever is really nonsense, because it is not in our interests. It is not in our interest anyway, because you insult a country where 65 million people live, with which we are still geographically in the same part of the world, but it is also in the interests of the internal market and the customs union, because you are getting all kinds of differences at some point. You can't build a new relationship either, so you just sit in limbo. At the press conference I always have on Friday, and here too, I wanted to emphasise that there is no question of anyone in Europe seriously considering: keep them in. In fact, everyone wants to avoid that backstop at all. We just want to get out in time, know what this new relationship looks like. Whatever else you can do to help her, I'd rather not speculate about that publicly. Because then I will also break the confidentiality of yesterday's conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u20	Of course, I understand that, as I understand it, you want to make it clear that there can be no re-negotiation. Can the Prime Minister imagine that it can be prevented from hitting a hard wall if there are signs from Member States such as the Netherlands that we are best prepared to give and offer this clarification, or the support that May apparently needs to give for a majority in the House of Commons? If we can provide that, maybe that'll help the process. I honestly don't see the problem as Bloomberg would write that down. That might even be helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u21	I have reason to believe what I just said, namely that the backstop is not an end in itself. In fact, we all want to avoid them. That's helpful, that's definitely one. Furthermore, we all want the new relationship as soon as possible and want it all to last as short as possible. If there's anything we can do to prevent it, we don't even want to turn on the backstop together. But the point is, the agreement is thick but also very simple. This is what it says. We'll continue the way we worked until the end of 2020. Then you can extend it once and if you don't have a new relationship then you fall back on the backstop, which in fact is the current relationship minus a lot. So you're left with the elements needed to continue treating Northern Ireland and the UK as a whole because of that red line of no hard border in the Irish Sea. But that has a number of disadvantages for the UK and, by the way, for Europe too, so you really do not want it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u22	Now the European Union entered into negotiations with the determination that we were going to talk first about the divorce and then about the new relationship. Actually, you can see that divorce can't go well because the new relationship is unknown. You can see that happening in the House of Commons. Does the Prime Minister recognise that the strategy to negotiate in this way has not been a good one?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u23	No, no, honestly not, because we do, I think, mention in the political statement quite in detail what the new relationship should look like. But it is quite impossible to have a legal document describing the new relationship. There is also a very complicated problem that has to do with that border. It will be partly dependent on new technology if you can keep a fully open border in Ireland, so without hard border controls that we all do not want because of, among other things, the Good Friday agreement of 1998. There's no sign of that yet. For this reason alone, it is not possible to have the new relationship fully worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u24	In the House of Commons there is a great distrust of this deal and of the European Union. That's what's in it, for example, that they get the feeling that they can't choose a hard Brexit, not even in the intermediate phase, or the temporary phase before the backstop starts. We don't want any of that. Does the Prime Minister believe that a hard Brexit can still be the new future relationship?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u25	No, that's out of the question. In the Exit Agreement the options are extension and, when it is over, the backstop. If you want a hard Brexit, you need to do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u26	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u27	That's the no-deal brexit, isn't it? That's not a hard Brexit, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u28	Well, no-dealbrexit or... The whole point is, you're entering into an agreement with all kinds of detailed agreements over and over again, with agreements about building a new relationship because you want to prevent them from falling out without a deal. If we can't make a deal, we want that allweather backstop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u29	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u30	Good. Then there are a few things about the preparations, for example about business. I agree with Mr Van Ojik. We are committed to providing industry with all the tools. I won't repeat them all now. They have already been mentioned in letters of inquiry. The 10% he mentioned, of course, is a worrying percentage. Informing the Chamber about this? Well, of course. Mr Verhoeven asked for this, like others. We do it as best we can, sometimes confidentially. On 7 September last, the Chamber was informed by letter and a closed briefing took place on 10 October. We must do everything we can to avoid disrupting the British ratification process. At the same time, we must take all measures here to prevent us from being ready for any scenario. Mrs De Vries spoke about continuity and actually asked the same question. I have just referred to the Commission's plan of 13 November and also to the preparations which the Netherlands has been making for some time. There is still some work to be done in Europe. It is always being discussed with the Commission. There are also many highly technical seminars going on. There the plans will be discussed with the Commission and the other 26 Member States. The Commission also provides further explanations on a number of points. In doing so, we work together to minimise the foreseeable consequences, specifically for the financial markets and care. Mrs De Vries referred to the export of medicines. That goes for that, too. The effects on the availability of medicines and medical devices are well mapped. All departments are working on it. In all kinds of sessions that take place, information is exchanged among themselves. New issues are also emerging, and you wouldn't really think about having to deal with them at all, because of course we were so used to that way of working within the European Union. That means that we will continue until we know for sure that everything will come into effect and even if that seems to work, you won't have to talk about "no deal" anymore, because then you will of course talk about the new relationship. With regard to finance, customs, the Minister of Finance will say a few things, but the whole piece of medicine and care is an integral part of the discussion on preparing us for exit as best as possible and, hopefully, not a no-deal scenario. That's about Brexit. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the Multiannual Financial Framework. There is a negotiating document from the Austrian Presidency. This is not on the agenda of the European Council. It's more like bringing all sorts of things together that countries think is important. In fact, Stef Blok, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will go into this in more detail in yesterday's report of the General Affairs Council. He will stress the importance of these elements. We will also always inform the Chamber about the commitment and progress of the negotiations. There is currently no negotiation of amounts and budgets. That's really only for the next phase. That's what other documents are about. So that's gonna be a lot of work, too. The Dutch commitment is of course known. We are committed to a modern and financially sustainable Multiannual Financial Framework, also modern with regard to the modern economy and Europe, where the burden is fairly divided and a country like the Netherlands, which is already one of the largest net contributors, comes out in a decent way. That is actually my answer to Mr Van Dijck's question. Mrs Leijten asked: can payments and discounts still be negotiated? Yeah, that's all part of the negotiations. The Commission proposes to stop using discounts, but this does not mean that they are gone. The issue of own resources, of which the Netherlands is not a big fan, is also just part of the negotiations. I expect that will only be really exciting at the end of the negotiations. The question is, of course, when is the final phase? The Commission would prefer to do so by October 2019 at the latest, because then you will also have enough time to prepare things in legislation, too, because it has to start from 2021. We're fine with that. If you can do that, please. But, yeah, if that doesn't work, you're gonna need more time. But the Netherlands won't stop that. If it works out in October next year, it would be fantastic, but it's gonna be quite a lift. Then there was Mr Bruins' question as to whether there could not be more money for research and innovation. Yes, the modernisation of the budget is certainly our commitment. We also see scope to shift substantially from cohesion policy to new priorities such as research and innovation within a tight ceiling. But we are not really here yet; that will be a very difficult discussion, of course, with countries such as Poland and other Eastern European countries. Mr Bruins also asked about the rule of law mechanism. As a cabinet, we attach importance to a mechanism linking the receipt of EU funds with the safeguarding of the rule of law principles. That is what the European Commission has proposed. We really want to build in a number of conditionality. This is a very important one. Another one that is a little more complicated but for which there is a group is linking up with the country-specific recommendations, let us say the debate in Europe on strengthening the economy. The Cabinet will work towards a mechanism with clear criteria on this specific issue of the rule of law with the like-minded Member States. This must be transparent, proportionate and legally strong. That brings me to the question of migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u31	On the previous point, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u32	Yes, on the previous point. The Prime Minister says that the Netherlands is not a strong advocate of own resources. That sounds very different from the Mark Rutte I heard earlier, who said: there will be no European taxes. Is the Prime Minister moving now? Does he see the fact that there will be own resources for the European Union in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u33	No. I thought I could use an understatement after the Brexit discussion, but that wasn't the case. No, I agree with Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u34	The Prime Minister says: I agree with Mr Van Dijck. But my question was: can you imagine that there will be European taxes in the future? You agree, so you can see that. I hope you mean the other thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u35	I didn't know the PVV was for new European taxes. That would be new. I meant by 'I agree with Mr Van Dijck' the suggestion contained in his question. This cabinet is not in favour of new European taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u36	The question is: does the Prime Minister draw a line in the negotiations there? Or does he say there's always room, because they're negotiations? In the past, the message was always that European taxes would never come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u37	The cabinet is not in favour of that, so we do not want that. But I always find it so powerless to use the heaviest terms in everything you don't want right away. Then you're already panicking. I do not think that is necessary, because there is also a broader coalition that is very reluctant on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u38	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u39	Mr. Chairman. Then migration. Mr Omtzigt was right to point out that this is not going to happen very quickly. That is an understatement for: it is going to be very slow with the elaboration and implementation of the agreements at the end of June. Look, the fact that there are no concrete agreements with countries in Africa and that this is taking time is all understandable. But, of course, within Europe, the debate is also very difficult. We see in the Netherlands that the numbers of secondary migration are approaching primary migration or sometimes even higher. This is partly due to the fact that migrants are not registered in all kinds of countries, after which they pass through to countries such as Belgium, Sweden, Germany and the Netherlands. So you don't see it working on many points. The whole discussion about a solidarity mechanism that is genuinely solidarity between Eastern and Western Europe is not going to get off the ground either. That, of course, raises the question of how to deal with the whole package of asylum measures that is in place, the whole package of legislation. In part, it's all connected. If you're going to extract elements from that, then you're also taking away the pressure on the whole thing. You could even imagine that you would separate a number of more technical proposals in the Eurodac package, the EU Asylum Agency and the resettlement framework, but that is also true, quite frankly, that I do not see sufficient support for this now. My expectation is that the summit of the next two days will not lead to a breakthrough. The French-German paper on compulsory solidarity seems very good when you see the title, but it meant that you could still say by way of a detour: I do not want them, but I will pay another country for the fact that they are receiving them. That paper's not on the agenda. Member States make more proposals and submit papers more often. I understand that the Franco-German proposal has been withdrawn again. We remain in favour of a compulsory redistribution mechanism. Then there was Mr Omtzigt's question about Italy and the IND. For this I would refer to the general consultation on asylum and foreign policy of Thursday, the thirteenth, tomorrow, with Mark Harbers. I have an answer here, but I know Mr Omtzigt. He's gonna ask follow-up questions, then I'm out of ammo. I can now also read out the two bullets I have here, if he promises not to ask me a follow-up question. Italy has adopted new legislation on the reception of asylum seekers. This could have an impact on Dublin transfers of families with underage children. It shall be determined on an individual basis whether such transfers can also take place. For other categories of asylum seekers, this legislation does not change the situation. These categories can simply be transferred to Italy. This includes remedies to be invoked against intentions to transfer. Mr. Chairman. I'll get to climate. This subject is briefly on the agenda at this summit. I see Mr Asscher, perhaps on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u40	No, no. I had asked the Prime Minister to give an opinion on the issue on the Greek islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u41	I'll get to that. I didn't ask that question. Sorry, I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u42	I didn't expect that in the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u43	No, it's not in the climate either, but in the pile of "other." But now that you mention it, it could have been in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u44	That has something to do with migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u45	Yes. At least I'll get back to that before I'm done. There's absolutely no question about that. Then there is the question of climate. It is not really on the agenda right now, other than that the Commission has, of course, set a target for 2050: zero net emissions. So you still have emissions, but it will be mitigated. I think that is a smart move by the Commission. By talking about this, we are not going to do that at this summit; that is happening in other places, but I want to have said it here, and also with the discussion about 2030, you can pull something off. We also notice in the Dutch lobby for the 55% CO reduction in 2030 compared to the 1990 level that this is very complicated in Europe in a number of countries, such as Germany. If you leave from 2050 and go back to 2030, hopefully that discussion will also be easier. Moreover, I welcome an ambitious target for 2050. There are a few questions. Mr Asscher said: CO levy also applies to industry. He knows, of course, that this is an instrument for electricity in the coalition agreement. The discussion is of course: could you go beyond the electricity sector? We are currently in the final stage of discussions with all kinds of civil society organisations. The aim now is that before Christmas there is a result from all these climate tables. Then there is a very solid job for industry: 14.3 megaton additional reduction in 2030. The goal is to achieve that, just like we agreed as a coalition. The measures with which you achieve such a goal are not, in themselves, of primary importance. The primary thing is that the goal is achieved, in a decent way. That's what the conversations at that table are about. In October, we asked the parties to put forward a concrete proposal for a safeguard mechanism, as could be a CO levy, so that is what we mentioned as an option. That is what the parties are now working on at the table. Once that work is done there, the cabinet will form an opinion on the work of the climate tables. This means that I am not going to vote in favour of a CO levy for industry, but I am not going to vote against it, but I note that the cabinet itself has said to the industry: look explicitly at the option of a CO levy in the context of a proposal for a safeguard mechanism. I think that Mr Asscher wants to go one step further and actually want to make a tough statement now, but I would not think that would be wise for my part in view of the fact that those tables are still in progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u46	But you can see that the people sitting at that table are lifting up the table and moving further and further away. So Hans de Boer says on behalf of the big companies: this is getting a little too concrete, so we're taking a little more time. This is in stark contrast to the urgency expressed by the Prime Minister in his CNN interview from Poland. Then I find it a little easy to say: now is not a good time. I think it would be a good idea for the Prime Minister to state first of all that he is firmly committed to the objective set out in the coalition agreement...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u47	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u48	... and secondly, that no other instrument has yet been devised that could work better than a CO levy and that, if there is before Christmas, we are very interested in that. But now the whole objective seems to be lifted over the horizon, across the annual border and across the provincial state elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u49	We are now quite far away from the European Council on Thursday and Friday, because I do not believe that my colleague in Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u50	That is why it would be so good if you also informed the European leaders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u51	Exactly. I'm gonna catch him up on the Dutch table approach. But I get the question. Look, you can expect at this stage that from those tables, of course, lots of ramifications come about the discussions there. It's gonna be exciting. You're going to crunch time. This means that parties are gradually going to look up the press, find something and shout something. I think that is quite appropriate to the process, and I don't blame anyone for that. I agree with the first remark: tonnage stands. That's a goal we're sticking to. The cabinet itself said in October that a CO levy is a very conceivable instrument. But I don't want to go any further now, because I really want to give those tables a chance right now. If I want to avoid that table being picked up further and put even further away, I must not make any harsh statements here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u52	Last question on that point. It is precisely with a view to the European summit that not only the tonnage remains, but also the deadline. It'll have to be done by Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u53	Yeah, we're doing everything we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u54	I understand that, but there's either an alternative to that CO levy, or there's a CO charge on Christmas. That must be the conclusion; there is no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u55	No, no. Not even that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u56	Then it's fake runch time. Then it is: there goes the table... wop!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u57	No. The aim is to achieve this, and that applies to all four coalition parties to be completely out by Christmas. I still think that can be done, given the discussions in the cabinet and with the coalition parties. But an absolute guarantee can never be given. If it were necessary to take a little more time, it should be, but right now, my guess is that we can make that date by Christmas. It's still on schedule.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u58	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u59	Indeed, I gave a successful interview at CNN myself. That was not about the Dutch tables, but more about how we maintain our ambitions in the world: the 49% and a look at 55% for Europe, but also for the rest of the world. Because you can see, of course, that the matter is shifting and there is simply no alternative to this approach. Because then the planet may not have a big problem... which survives... but humanity does. Mr. Chairman. Then a few loose elements. The EU/AU Summit on 18 December is a forum organised by the Austrian Presidency together with President Kagame of Rwanda, who is now President of the African Union. It is actually the follow-up to the summit in Abidjan in November 2017. It is an initiative of Sebastian Kurz, the chancellor of Austria. It is a good opportunity to discuss issues such as innovation, digitisation, private sector development and creating jobs for the young and fast-growing population in Africa. No decisions are foreseen. It really provides a space for business and government leaders to exchange ideas. I participate on behalf of the Netherlands. Sigrid Kaag isn't there. We have a slightly larger cabinet than last time, but we try not to travel in duos as much as possible. Mr Omtzigt asked for a letter of inquiry. That would be about all of this, because there will be no conclusions from that summit. It's really a forum. My notes say that if Mr Omtzigt insists on a letter of office, you can give it your word. But maybe he doesn't insist, and then we can consider this part of the stenography report as the cabinet's commitment to this forum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u60	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u61	There was a specific question for a letter of inquiry. I also thought for a moment "that's a good idea," but when I got a little more official advice, I thought: it might not be necessary right now. That saves another letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u62	I actually have two questions. I understand that you cannot agree on migration unless concrete agreements are made there. But I can assume that, in addition to the good cooperation, the Netherlands will also point to the agreements on migration that should be made, including withdrawal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u63	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u64	The second question concerns the previous point. I asked whether the Netherlands at the MFF if the Brexit was in one of the two could have a negotiating position at the time when Great Britain remains with the Union. Are we committed to maintaining our discounts? 'Cause Britain's gonna keep its discounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u65	Let's get to the first question. Wherever I get the chance to make that point, I will. That's a promise I make. Then I understand that the letter doesn't have to now, but if things happen, then of course we'll look... You can see the officials thinking, "Why does he read to me that he could have promised a letter?" But then we'll be fine. Then the other point: if the Brexit didn't go through. If you look at the Dutch commitment and how we want to get out of all these negotiations on the MFF, you will see that every instrument stands for the Netherlands. This also applies to the discount instrument and to other instruments such as ceilings. You will probably eventually need a mix of all those instruments to realize the Dutch MFK commitment. Would Brexit not go on and remain the UK: that is so-that it seems obvious to me that the British rebate and the discount we now have will remain as well. That would be very obvious, to be honest. But I'm trying to keep the outside world from thinking that I'm assuming they're gonna stay. That is why I hesitate to answer the question. But underlining "if-then," yes, I think that makes sense. Agreed. Then there is a question from Mrs Leijten, the one on subsidiarity. The Dutch Government attaches great importance to this principle, but it does not seem to me to be a good idea. The European Commission itself carries out a subsidiarity assessment and then the national parliaments can do the same. This, in my view, offers a balanced system, with enough locks on the door. Then there is Mr Stoffer's question about extending the deadline for subsidiarity to 12 weeks. A motion was tabled by Mrs Leijten on 8 November in a debate with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. At that time, he referred to the Timmermans Task Force's proposal for subsidiarity, i.e. a flexible eight-week process in the short term and a longer-term effort to extend it to 12 weeks. That's what we make ourselves strong for. A formal adjustment of the twelve-week period requires treaty change, so you won't get that settled in the short term. But I believe that we now have a pragmatic approach, which provides a good way forward to ensure that sufficient time is available to national parliaments. A question from Mr Asscher was raised about Greece. Indeed, we share those concerns about the situation in the Greek islands. That is what the government and the Commission are calling on Greece to do. So do I, towards Alexis Tsipras, the Prime Minister. I do not agree with the solution put forward by Mr Asscher, namely relocation, including to countries such as the Netherlands. I wouldn't be for that. What we do do do: Mark Harbers discussed this last week, even after the general consultation on the JHA Council. This was suggested by Mrs Kuik, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Voordewind and Mr Grothuizen. What you ultimately have to achieve, and that is what you are committed to, is a better functioning Greek asylum system, where the Greek authorities are, of course, primarily responsible for receiving reception, but receive substantial support from the Commission, UNHCR, NGOs, and also from the Member States. We're doing everything we can. I've been offering it to you all the time. I have said to Alexis Tsipras once in a while: if you want us to run it for you on one of those islands, just with Dutch standards and everything else, then we are willing to do so. Of course, that is not possible, because we cannot take over the sovereignty of Greece, but in this way you would make it possible for them to manage it properly. And other countries could adopt another island. Anyway, so far, none of that's worked out. The alternative of relocating to the rest of Europe seems really unwise to me; I would not do that. So with the rest: agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u66	I owe you two more questions. Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u67	What does Tsipras say back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u68	That he realizes how important it is, that he appreciates what we're doing and is willing to do. Furthermore, I cannot say anything about that, because that affects the confidentiality of the conversations with him, but I can say this part. But apart from him or the individual Greek ministers: all these talks are going well, but the actual situation is what it is, so there is still room between them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u69	No one claims that it is a structural solution to keep people relocated. But we're running in circles, because we've talked about this before. I do not doubt the good intentions, but frankly I am ashamed that on our continent everyone sits quietly together, freezing people to death and sharing a toilet with their thousands. I will not claim that I know the perfect solution to this, but I find it strange that we, with such a rich and strong continent, are unable to solve this problem. I would therefore urge the Prime Minister to separate his colleagues for a little longer if necessary. Organize a "cockpit," a "table" or whatever you want to call it. But seriously, this just can't be. Without all kinds of taboos in advance. This undermines the legitimacy of the refugee policy of the Netherlands and of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u70	I very much agree with that. The images are horrible. You occasionally see those items in the Dutch sections. Humanly demeaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u71	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister already referred to it: last week we had a general discussion with the Secretary of State on the same issue. Having heard Mr Asscher's point, I would like to stress once again the reaction of the Secretary of State and of the Prime Minister, in the next sentence. Look, the Prime Minister immediately says: I am also ashamed, but taking over by the Netherlands people trapped on the Greek islands is really not something to talk about. I remind him, though he does know, that we had such a system. We had a system of relocation from Greece and Italy. We have resettlement from North Africa. Those programs have been brought to an end. I won't say they've been brought to a successful conclusion, but they've been brought to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u72	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u73	The Netherlands has done its part in this. I come to my question, Madam President, if that is all right with you. If migration is on the agenda and there is nothing to say about progress, the Prime Minister has just said so much about it. What would be against the Prime Minister's...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u74	You were working on the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u75	...will we bring that system back to life?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u76	But those were other cases after all. Then it was about people who had gone all the way through the procedure and who had now been found to be able to stay in Greece. Here you are talking about a situation in which the Greek asylum system is working so slowly that people who actually have to go back to Turkey under the Turkey agreements do not go back to Turkey. If you are going to accept them in Europe, in the Netherlands or anywhere else, you are working to extract all the foundations under the Turkey/Europe agreement, with even the risk that no one wants it to have a sucking effect and the boats to sail again. Those are real risks I wouldn't want to take. This is a different case from what was intended at the time, namely to relieve Greece from relocations, more generally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u77	I understand that logic. In that logic, it should be that you, of course, judge people as soon as possible and the people who for any reason cannot return to Turkey are explicitly provided for in this provision, which is yet to be redistributed across Europe. Could such a model perhaps bring some air to the situation in Greece, where no one is being taken over but no one or almost no one is being sent back to Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u78	But the key... The whole point is that Greece does not take up so many asylum seekers at all, even though there is chaos on the islands. The further numbers in Greece are not so bad. You don't have to help them with that now. The problem is that they will not be able to get through the asylum procedure, which means that no selection can be made of who should return under the Turkey agreements and who can stay in Europe. A very large part of these agreements will probably have to go back to Turkey, because they are Syrian refugees, who are directly covered by the EU-Turkey agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u79	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u80	Then Hungary. Yesterday, during the General Affairs Council, I say to Mr Verhoeven, the Foreign Minister expressed our concern about the closure of Central European University. The Sargentini report, which triggered the Article 7 procedure against Hungary, also mentions this as one of the concerns that may constitute a breach of the Union's conditions. This will probably also be discussed at a future hearing with Hungary in the context of that procedure. The Dutch cabinet deeply regrets what is happening to Central European University. It's serious that she's leaving Budapest. It is an important player in the academic landscape in Hungary and hence throughout Central Europe. A democracy is more than a parliament. A free press, a university system and a higher education system are also pillars of our freedom. In that sense, this is an extremely worrying signal. There are no signs at present that certain Member States would not support the extension of Russia's sanctions, I say to Mr Van Ojik, who asked a question about this. Stef Blok, the Foreign Minister, has drawn attention to the human rights sanctions regime in the Foreign Affairs Council. He has also received a great deal of support for this. We are now going to work on that initiative. That room is here now. We are also going to make further efforts to this end. As far as we're concerned, that goes as quickly as possible. Eventually, we have to work towards a consensus. It'll take some time. It is precisely for this reason, as I say to Mr Omtzigt, that the term "Magnitsky" was chosen not to be mentioned here. We find that some countries say: we do want to give support, but then we want a more neutral name. I can't answer exactly why that would be, but apparently it's sensitive to use that name. So under the motto "more a law without a name than a name without a law" we have chosen to use a more neutral name. When we talk about it here, I think we're just talking about the Magnitsky Act or the Magnitsky Initiative, but internationally, that's just a little less support than you'd like. Then there is Mr Omtzig's question about Turkey. I agree with him that the Committee for the Prevention of Torture's report should be made public. We are constantly raising the potential human rights violations, both bilaterally and through the European Union. This is also the case with the European Commission. That too has great concerns. This was a clear statement on the human rights situation in Turkey in the previous report. The next report is scheduled for next spring, with a renewed focus on human rights. We will be very careful to ensure that this is taken into account in the Commission's reports. I have already answered Mr Omtzig's question about cooperation with African countries on migration. That was the issue of the agreements at the end of June and the implementation process. Finally, he also had a question about Albania. That's not playing right now. However, as we know, next year the Commission will come forward with further reports on countries such as Albania and Macedonia. It also plays for Kosovo and Bosnia, of course. Of course, it has been playing for Serbia and Montenegro for some time now. We will look very critically at this from the point of view of'strong and just' and, if necessary, discuss it here again. But at the moment there is no new information available, at least not to me, about the Commission and how it looks at Albania. Mr. Chairman. I believe that I have tried to answer all the questions, except those on the subjects I mentioned, which the Minister of Finance will deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u81	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u82	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you to the Members for the questions they have asked. First of all, I should like to say a few words about last week's package in general and also about the various parts in particular. I shall then turn to the few questions on Italy, the Court of Auditors and Customs. Mr. Chairman. Maybe just a brief introduction to what the cabinet in Europe is doing at all, especially on my dossiers, and what the approach we have followed has been. Then I think I will answer Mr Verhoeven's first few questions. I have said it many times in the AO's: as a cabinet, we are strongly in favour of Europe, the European Union and the euro. There are a lot of dossiers where we have questions, reservations and sometimes also outright objections to what or how. But we're looking at that from the inspiration I just described. There are a lot of things that we are also explicit about. We are in favour of a capital market union. That is, by the way, a subject in which I work closely with my French colleague. We are in favour of maintaining the Stability and Growth Pact. We are in favour of adjustments to the ESM. I'll get to that in a minute. And we are also in favour, under all kinds of conditions, of EDIS, which many others a priori do not see as much. Then of course you have the question: how did you come from being right to being right? That is, I think, the second part of the answer to Mr Verhoeven. What have we been trying to do? Then I will also be at the Brexit which the Prime Minister, of course, said a few words about. The Netherlands has always felt strategically and historically when there was a good balance in the triangle Germany, France and the United Kingdom. Honestly, we have also benefited greatly from Germany's action on the one hand, and on the other hand the UK's action in the European Union over the last few decades. The departure of the United Kingdom, in addition to the fact that it is economically extremely bad news for the Netherlands, also brings with it the next strategic question. How are you going to act in a European Union in which the United Kingdom no longer plays a role and therefore no longer interprets the sound that very often has been the Dutch sound, where it was free trade, where it was the Stability and Growth Pact, and where it was a lot of things that we still find? As far as I am concerned, the answer should be a combination of a number of things. First of all, we must continue to push ahead and, moreover, I and the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs continue to be very close and to continue to work with Germany. Because that was, is and will remain our main ally on many of these files. In addition, of course, we have traditionally worked together with the Benelux, but in order to compensate for the departure of the United Kingdom, we have actually tried to do two things. First of all, move much closer with that coalition of northern countries. In addition, this has received less attention but it is important to mention that we have also increased much more closely with France over the past year than we have historically often done. There has also been less attention to this in the press, but it really is a combination of each of those elements. In my view, that has worked well too. Mr. Chairman. Then about last week's appointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u83	Thanks for that strategic insight. The Prime Minister has often said something about this in debates of this kind. You have to look differently at possible allies; those allies vary by subject, and thus also the combination of who you work with. Clear. I am encouraged by the fact that the Finance Minister mentions a number of issues which he says we are a driver, or a party that is clearly in favour of things. I guess that's just true. It is good that this is emphasised. Then why is it that the Minister of Finance is constantly radiating... That's really important to me. I pay more attention to how the cabinet deals with this to the Dutch electorate. Then it turns out that the appearance is always: we don't want that, we stand on the brakes, we stop it, it's all dangerous. The Minister of Finance seems to be a little proud of that. So I like that he says here: we're in favour of a number of things, but why is it always the look of "standing on the brake is best"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u84	Of course, I am not talking about who is invited to the AOs with the Finance Committee, but I try to put each of these nuances in words every time. This therefore concerns the basic position of the Netherlands and also, for me personally, on many of the European dossiers relating to the financial side of the matter. And then make the distinction between what and how. But let's be honest about that, too. Take a subject like the ESM. This is typically a subject that we are very hard on, and which we have dragged and pulled. I will say something about it in a moment, in the direction of Mr Bruins and Mr Asscher, among others. But of the thought that you would need a stabilisation fund, I find it difficult to say other than that, in my opinion, we are very much opposed to it by the Chamber and also by the government agreement. So I think you need to stress time and time again what the starting point is. Once again, that is for Europe, for the European Union and for the euro. But then you have to dare to be precise on a case-by-case basis. And then there are files that you're very excited about a priori. There are also files that you say: well, depending on how you shape it, it can freeze or it can thaw. There are things you say we don't see in them. For example, I do not see anything in additional automatic transfers. There are a lot of countries in the European Union that see that as a lack of enthusiasm for the Union as a whole, but that is a view that I certainly do not share.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u85	I know the coalition agreement, these issues, and I also know what has been agreed. And I also know that I have just said to Mr Van Ojik that there is quite a difference of opinion between different coalition parties, and that is not a point at all. I think we have three leaders who are very important when it comes to promoting the European course of the Netherlands. That is the Prime Minister, that is the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and that is the Minister of Finance. That is a very important role, an important position. I have often said it to the Prime Minister, I have often said it to the Foreign Minister, and I am now saying it to the Minister of Finance: just try to show that one of the important leaders in the message is clear about what you want and what you do not want. It should not go too far in the direction of 'we are against everything, because that is a good attitude for domestic use'. That is neither sensible nor sustainable. So I am simply calling on the Minister of Finance to do so, as I see him once in this debate. I have, of course, also spoken with my colleague, who is doing the AOs with this Minister of Finance. I just want to give him that for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u86	AO's are debates in committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u87	AO's are very important debates which are not dealt with in this large Chamber, but which are extremely important for the debate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u88	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u89	In my opinion, Mr Verhoeven's group colleague always tells me that I generally like the balance sheet. But I am of course recommended for further improvements and beautifications.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u90	I shall come back to that in second place. I'll just have a little back-spoke. I'll review it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u91	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u92	Mr. Chairman. Then I ended up with the appointments we made last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u93	I think Mr Tony van Dijck has another interruption on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u94	It was me about the Hanseatic Alliance. If the Minister looks back now, would he take another tour of Europe in search of supporters? Or does he have a little regret about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u95	No, I just said that. My observation is that the combination of initiatives has worked. Then I will be back with Mr Verhoeven immediately, because he also immediately deals with how the debate goes next. The discussion is about the group of countries in the Baltic and Scandinavia. It may well be that Mr Van Dijck's next question does not excel in the pro-European idea either. So you're automatically talking a lot about one side of the spectrum. But I would like to touch on Mr Van Dijck's question. You can never say afterwards which part of everything you've done has helped the most. We are linked to Europe. We believe that we should continue with the European Union and that we should continue with the euro. We have a specific view on each dossier. We are facing the departure of the United Kingdom. That raises the question of how you react strategically. Then you have to make a lot of efforts to do that. My observation is that the combination of and the very close increase with Germany is what we have traditionally done, so you could say that we will continue to do so, as well as the agreements we have managed to deal with the Northern Baltic coalition and the much more acute search of the dialogue with France by the Prime Minister and helped myself with the playing field a long way out where we wanted to come out. If you put the clock back 12 months, you can see that there is something lying there now. I'm very satisfied with it. What really looks different than at the time. But I'll say something about each of those elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u96	We happened to be in the Bundestag a few weeks ago. That's where they were shocked by that action of yours. They reacted a little remodeled: why does your minister actually seek the alliance with other countries and he stirs them up a little against us? Le Maire wasn't exactly charmed either. You must not play the calimero in Europe. You shouldn't say, "I'm gonna find supporters," or else I won't be heard. After all, the Netherlands remains the largest net contributor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u97	This is an interesting change in the debate. At first Mr Van Dijck was mainly on the line that should sound more of the northern sound. Now, apparently, he's been talking to some members of the Bundestag. And they inspired him into a more pro-European story. I like to leave that on its own, but his perception is not my perception. I cannot, of course, touch confidentiality, as the Prime Minister always says so well from the talks with my German colleague. But my German colleague has just said literally: I come from one of the most hanzatic cities in Europe, namely Hamburg. When asked what he thinks of that Northern Baltic coalition, he said he was okay with it. So my perception of how Germany appreciates it is really fundamentally different from what Mr Van Dijck recently whispered. Mr. Chairman. I was with the report, the text and the draft agreements that were made last week. Again, I'm really satisfied with what we agreed. I think it is a really good agreement for the Netherlands, but I am also convinced that it is a good agreement for the rest of Europe, because it is about the long term. It's not always about the easy things, but it's about doing what's good in the long run. I am satisfied with the whole thing, but I am also absolutely satisfied with every specific part, so also with the piece on the backstop and on the conditions and on the ESM and also on those instruments of convergence and competitiveness. I'll walk them all by for a short while. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the ESM. Mr Asscher asked about this and also Mr Bruins and Mrs De Vries. I understood Mr Bruins' question as: explain again or tell me again why this is actually a step in the right direction. There are three elements in that, you might say. Firstly, the ESM will do more in terms of monitoring countries. That's actually not controversial. It's easy for all countries to agree to that. The second thing that is already more controversial is the negotiation of programmes. When we look back there for 12 months, we see how much progress we have made on this subject, at least on the point that Mr Asscher referred to, namely debt restructuring. Those are the three elements. Mr Asscher asked Mr Asscher that was, in my view, a question from Mrs De Vries too, whether this means that the taxpayer will never have to pay for it again. That is, of course, a very legitimate question, because that should be precisely the concern of the Minister of Finance. However, I must say in his direction that we need to separate the situation at the banks and the backstop and separate it from the discussion about the ESM that is about the countries. The answer in his direction is "fair" is "yes" and "no." Because what do you have to do when a country is in existential trouble? Then you really have to choose between two evils. One evil is the restructuring of debt. I don't want to pretend that's painless. Far from it, because that just means that you say to bondholders: you get a haircut. You will get a longer period on which you will get the money back, you will get less money back or you will get it back at a lower percentage. The alternative is Mr Asscher and Mrs De Vries rightly pointed out that this is even less attractive to say that you can pay the bill against residents of the European Union, probably residents of other Member States. In the choice between those two evils, I find the second the greater evil. That is why I am so pleased that we managed to achieve that first. And why is my answer to Mr Asscher a piece of no? Of course, it is not the case that giving this instrument does not prevent citizens from being called upon again. That's still possible as an ultimatum remedium and that's why we have the ESM with the hundreds of billions. Then I come to the debate on convergence, stabilisation, the euro area budget and instruments. Mrs Leijten, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Van Dijck, Mr Bruins and others had questions about this. I think I have been very clear about what we are against and what we are for during the last AO. I'd like to tell you that again. Mr Verhoeven will forgive me if I start here with the bump and then come to the front, because the initial plan was mainly something we didn't see fit to do. I have tried once again in the last AO to say that we are against a stabilisation function, that we are against a new separate pot of money, that we are against an additional transfer and that we are against a fiscal capacity, as stated in the coalition agreement. So you could say the s-word, the t-word and the fc-word. What are we for? That is what the government agreement is about much longer. Indeed, we are in favour of doing more in the area of reform, so we are in favour of convergence. We are also in favour of having such a discussion within the mechanism we have before that, namely the MFF. We have always stressed that. We are also in favour of more competitive economies. In this area, too, the coalition agreement makes a very compelling appeal. That is why I find that word 'eurozone budget' so confusing, because it is of course something that was originally meant to contain elements that the Netherlands is opposed to. There was stabilization in it. There was a new, separate pot in it. Now, however, we have a very different discussion. We are now having a discussion within the contours of the MFF, precisely on those issues that we would like to have. Here too it is important to look very closely at the text. So it means that, if the Heads of Government were to mandate us to talk about it further, then we would have to look at what these instruments would look like within that MFF. So if the Heads of Government decide to do so, then we have the question of what and the question of how to answer it, but in particular the question of how. I have answers to a few other questions here, Mr President. But I see you looking, so I'm gonna shut up for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u98	I see you looking very closely, Mrs Leijten. Do you have a question about the previous point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u99	I have a question about the euro area budget, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u100	I don't think the Minister had finished this subject. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u101	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u102	I suggest he finish this subject first. Mrs Leijten will then have the opportunity to ask questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u103	I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u104	So I think it is very clear what the cabinet does not want and it is very clear what the cabinet wants, depending on what it looks like. And we can potentially be really excited about it; let me also say that. I think that a discussion on convergence, reform and competitiveness within the MFF is very sensible. Frankly, this has also been the Dutch commitment for many years, apart from that complicated MFF discussion about the ceiling, which is about modernising the budget, which is about conditionality that we have talked about and what the Prime Minister has just talked about. So you have to say that very clearly. Mr Verhoeven asked: is this going to be at the expense of that reform delivery tool? For the record, that tool isn't here yet. And then we're back to exactly how we ended up. Because we still need to talk about the design and the details. Mr Omtzigt asked: was it only the Netherlands that opposed this stabilisation? No, far from it. I cannot speak on behalf of all those countries, but a group larger than the group Mr Van Dijck referred to is opposed to a stabilisation mechanism. Mr President, that seems to me to have given me the majority of the questions in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u105	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u106	The Minister of Finance is taking a walk with the Chamber. We had an extra eurogroup debate because we always have a committee meeting for a eurogroup. That way, we can send the minister out on a mission. That extra debate was on 15 November, because on 19 November that extra euro group was. At that time, the proposal was put forward by Germany and France. During that debate, the Minister assured us that the Netherlands would not agree to a euro area budget. There was a motion prepared, but we said: we do not have to submit it, because we have agreed. Then the minister came out of that meeting, and then the same thing actually happened last week. Then there were all sorts of statements by the Minister that were unclear. "I'm not so sure." He tweeted, "I'm against." And he came out and said, "I am not so convinced." That's what I asked Chamber questions about. Three weeks have passed, but those questions have not been answered. So the Minister cannot clearly state what he means. And now he's suddenly saying that the Netherlands has been in favour of a euro area budget for years? This is just really twisting facts. Did he lose it? Didn't he go into battle? What exactly happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u107	There is a real danger of a misunderstanding here, whether or not by the way we express ourselves. I have just tried to outline, both in that AO and in what I have just said, what we have been in favour of from the outset and what we have been against from the outset. I have also tried to refer to that word 'eurozone budget'. I would also like to say to Mrs Leijten: it is not quite what the Protestants call sola scriptura, but it is not a big deal. If you look at that literal text, it's about "possible budgetary instruments for the euro area." Those are possible budgetary instruments............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Then it goes in the third piece, and I'm going to read it to you anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u108	I know the part; that's really not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u109	Yes, but I am going to do it anyway, because when I look at what I said in the AO about this, I am very surprised that there could now be a misunderstanding about the cards as they are now on the table. It says: 'Subject to a mandate to be given by the Euro Summit', so if the Heads of Government decided to do so, 'work could proceed', 'on the design, implementation and timing of such an instrument for convergence and competitiveness'. Then the work could continue on the design of course there are all kinds of questions in closed case the implementation and timing of an instrument, i.e. not a euro area budget, which is about convergence and competitiveness. No tasking on stabilisation, no tasking outside the MFF.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u110	I'll stick to Dutch. There have been twice here, and more often, I think very concrete, Dutch motions adopted, already in 2012 and also in 2015, by a majority of this Chamber. Only the Labour Party, GroenLinks and D66 were against it; the rest was before it. In this context, the Netherlands has determined the position that there would be no euro area capacity, budget or budget. That is what this discussion is all about, and that is what this Minister is not doing. On 15 November, we told him: 'There will now be an extra euro summit, just to ensure that the Heads of Government will be able to sign something later. The only concrete thing is France and Germany's proposal to create a euro area budget. Are you gonna put your veto on? We really don't want this." Then the VVD said: we really don't want this. The CDA said the same thing back then. Happy today, but then they really didn't want it. And the minister assured us it wouldn't come. The next week, it started spinning with words, and now everybody's happy. We've just been messed up. I ask the Minister here: be honest about the fact that you have lost it and that we are simply moving towards a euro area budget, capacity and budget. That is what it says. You can put so many words on it, but don't deny that we're about to get a budget for the euro area. Whether it has been paid in directly by the countries or through the multiannual framework, it does not matter: it is a budget for the euro area. And with that we absolutely cross a red line that the Chamber has drawn before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u111	You have made your point, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u112	And the Minister has to be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u113	I am going to hang on the other side, because I can imagine that it would be politically complicated if a lot of things turned out to be so arranged. I would advise Mrs Leijten to go over the text of the AA once again. Where did we start a year ago? We started with a pot that some thought should cover 1,000 billion; the amount was mentioned by Mr Van Rooijen among others. We have started with a new element, a new instrument, which we would call the euro area budget. It was clear, even before Germany and France themselves started to do so, that this would be new money and a new instrument, which was also said on the French side, and not within the existing frameworks. That's the second one. The third was: that was meant for stabilisation. It's a bit technical, but that's something fundamentally different from convergence. Those plans were then amended twice. They were then amended again in this sitting. Mrs Leijten is, of course, free to accuse me of wanting to do so, but I would nevertheless like to draw her attention to the specific text, which has been negotiated word for word in some parts, and which does not contain what she puts in my shoes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u114	Last point, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u115	We started with: no, we do not want a euro area budget. And then the elephant pushing France and Germany into the room can still be so big, we just say no to that elephant. The minister has started to negotiate backwards, and now we have a very small elephant that Centeno says is going to grow again. We didn't even start where the minister said he was starting. He could have put his veto in, he could have just said it's not coming. The Germans have said that the deposit guarantee scheme for the banks is not going to happen. No, it's blocked. The Netherlands had the opportunity to do so, but it has negotiated, and with that we have indeed crossed a red line. The minister pretends to win, but we lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u116	That "we" lies with Mrs. Leijten. There may be a danger that if you are accidentally listening to this debate, you may think that the truth is somewhere in the middle. But that is not the case. It is true that we as the Netherlands have always resisted something outside the MFF, that we have resisted a stabilisation element, that we have resisted a transfer element and that is none of this. There the Dutch position is unchanged. But I know how enthusiastic Mrs Leijten is always following the coalition agreement. After that paragraph on fiscal capacity, there is a whole section on what the cabinet does want with regard to reforms. At the same time, of course, if you agree on this piece of text, then the discussion will have to be about how to shape those reforms, within the context of the MFF. But I think that's a good discussion to have. I also think that the ball is where it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u117	All right, Mrs Leijten, I think that this point has been exchanged enough. You may make one comment, and then you have had all the space.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u118	Everyone in this Chamber thinks that the multiannual budget for the European Union should be different. But the fact that a euro area budget is now being called into question in this whole discussion has never been agreed by the Chamber. Nor has there ever been a change of position from the Chamber or in a coalition agreement. A majority of this Chamber has indicated that no red line must be crossed during negotiations or in a coalition agreement. But the Minister has indeed crossed that red line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u119	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u120	You're not giving that basically right. I'm very sorry, but I can't say otherwise. I think that is important to stress, because this is at the heart of the discussion. I continue to stress that this is a different discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u121	As far as necessary, I really woke up when the Minister of Finance said...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u122	You're always awake!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u123	... that the word "eurozone budget" is actually confusing. A few moments later he said that there are misunderstandings about that. Let's talk about what it is and what it isn't. In an interview in Der Spiegel, the Minister says: sometimes, in addition to Europe's good things, we must also be concerned about things that go too far in Europe. A euro area budget is unnecessary. In the press release to which the Minister of Finance refers, the Minister says...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u124	It depends on how long that paragraph is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u125	It's very short. Three rules, Mr. Chairman. I don't think that's gonna be long. This is really about the core business of the debate. The Minister says literally: on the instruments of competition and convergence, France and Germany have proposed an architecture for a euro area budget, which will be part of the EU budget. The size will be determined as soon as the MFF is discussed. So here in the press release it says that there will be a euro area budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u126	No. That is exactly why it is so important to look at that text. I will not suggest that 50PLUS is deliberately trying to put me on the wrong foot here, but I will go back to those paragraphs anyway. That first paragraph is about what has been discussed. I have said here many times: if people want to talk about something in the euro area, I cannot put a lock on their mouths, it will be discussed and it can be said that this has been discussed. That's what the first paragraph is about. It also contains the word'stabilization'. The second paragraph concerns the second version of the French-German proposal. Mr Van Rooijen knows that the original French idea was made of a French-German proposal, which was still about stabilisation and what was not within the MFF. That has changed into another plan that I have already said to the Chamber: that is something fundamentally different. That's what I said before. That's what that second paragraph describes. So it's about that second version of the Franco-German plan. What's the play we discussed? We have discussed the third paragraph of the Treaty that, depending on what the Heads of Government think, we are going to work on the timing of such an instrument, i.e. not on a separate budget, for convergence and competitiveness, so on convergence and competition within the MFF, because that is what the second paragraph was about. In the fourth paragraph, the need for completeness is stated in a sense that we do not even have to agree, in a proper language, on the necessity and on what a possible stabilisation function should look like at all. That is, of course, clear language that we do not want. Once again, I just said it to Mr Omtzigt, there are many who do not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u127	Thank you to the Minister for this answer, but I am not yet a step further. I share the picture but also the content of the discussion we had in the AO and Mrs Leijten expressed. Apart from motions from the past that I was not present with, we have asked the Minister instantly whether he is in favour of or against a euro area budget. We need to re-read it all; maybe we can do that later. I do not recall saying that we are in favour of a euro area budget within the MFF when it comes to competition and convergence, but we are against it when it comes to stabilisation. That distinction has not been made. You are making the issue of the euro area small by saying: because stabilisation is not there, it is not really a euro area budget, but a normal element of the new MFF. That's not true at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u128	I'm gonna turn it around anyway. I think it is about the substance and not about the label. Even if that were the case, I would like to know the following from Mr Van Rooijen. Then it is the task that we have received back from the Heads of Government... Which we could get back, I must say. Where does the third paragraph say that there will be a euro area budget? It doesn't say that. It says that there will be instruments for convergence and for competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u129	I will give you the floor in a moment, Mr Van Rooijen, but this is yet another repetition of the discussion between the Minister... Easy, Mr. Van Rooijen. You will have the opportunity, but it is a repeat of the discussion between the Minister and Mrs Leijten. I don't think you'll agree with each other if what was said before is repeated. Now it's your turn, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u130	I am not repeating Mrs Leijten's questions, I am keeping my own story and I am asking my own questions. I will come back to those two paragraphs again. The Minister now says that the third paragraph only states "such an instrument." But "such an instrument" is in the second paragraph: "As regards the instruments for competitiveness and convergence, France and Germany proposed an architecture for the Eurozone budget." In the third paragraph, "such an instrument" is therefore the euro area budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u131	I'm truly surprised. I mean it in all friendship towards Mr Van Rooijen. He may not discuss anything else we have also agreed on about the ESM, the backstop and the preventive credit line................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But I am truly surprised that, given the discussion we had in the Chamber for a whole year, this piece of text would not be accepted. I would have thought: the whole fraction of 50PLUS jumps into the air immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u132	Well, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u133	That's a hunchback. I would also like to congratulate the Minister on the titanic fight he has fought with the French. If his French colleague is as furious as it turned out, then that is worth a compliment. There is no difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u134	This was the compliment and now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u135	I would like to say with Mrs Leijten that the debate on the euro area budget has been narrowed. As long as the stabilisation is not in place, it is not really dangerous and fits in with everything the cabinet wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u136	No, that's also what I'm saying. Let's just say it's too limited a reflection of the discussion. I have never used this kind of sport comparison myself and I do not think it is appropriate, because our joint task, as I have tried to say in the direction of Mr Verhoeven, is precisely to come to agreements with all those countries, as far as we can bear it as the Netherlands. If everyone had said 'yes, but it must be stabilised', we should of course have said: that is not going to work for us, because it cannot be carried by the cabinet and parliament in the Netherlands. That is what I said there, of course. But that is not what has been agreed either. It is precisely the result of this discussion, which I say is excellent news. What else has been agreed and how cozy it was, that's all the category "at your service," but what matters to me is that it's within the MFF, that it's about those elements that we as the Netherlands have always been hard on and that we also said that stabilisation is not allowed in it. And that then there are people who say that they call this a euro area budget... I can't forbid them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u137	Your fifth question, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u138	Another question, Mr. Chairman. If the euro area budget is now limited to those two areas of convergence and competition, then the following. The documents also state that this was originally in a broader sense, but now also in a narrower sense as the Minister means, so without stabilisation....... that own resources are needed to finance the euro area budgeting, or that it should go through separate and/or additional payments from the euro countries. If he is against this, then the euro area budget cannot be financed in a narrow sense either. Or is that what you're here for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u139	No, I'm gonna say it again, or we're gonna keep having these misunderstandings. Maybe I should take two things out after all. I have always said that we are not for own resources. I think the Prime Minister has just made that clear. We have also had a discussion at the MFF in which we have looked at this in quite a lot of detail. I think Mr Van Rooijen was there too. That's what the nine-page letter says. When it comes to the euro area budget, it is not for nothing that it comes back in the second paragraph of what has been discussed, but that it does not come back in that third paragraph. That's why the word "instrument" is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u140	Finally. The last question, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u141	These own resources also include "and/or additional payments from euro area countries via this IGA" as an alternative to the financing of that euro area budget. Are you against that, too? Because then there is no food at all for a euro area budget within the MFF.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u142	Of course, it's going to be a very complicated discussion. Let's just be honest about that, too. I believe that we have always said this, and the Prime Minister has just repeated it. There are three complex things that we want in view of the MFF. The first is to agree on the ceiling, where we consider it reasonable that our net payment position should remain as it is. I think it is reasonable and justifiable that we in the Netherlands should pay more to the MFF than countries in a completely different situation, but we have always said that it is not reasonable that we should be disproportionately affected by the departure of the United Kingdom. So that is what we want to agree to now. The second section deals with the modernisation of the budget. That's what the Prime Minister just said. The third piece deals with conditionality. So within this MFF discussion you will have a discussion about these instruments or about the 'eurozone budget', as some will certainly explain and apparently also do a number of people in the Chamber. But that's different from a separate budget and that's why I keep making the distinction. That's something that's not about stabilisation. But that is what the MFF debate will be about, and that will really be a very complicated discussion; I fully agree with Mr Van Rooijen on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u143	It is clear that this Finance Minister is not for a euro area budget for stability, convergence and competition, but for a euro area budget for convergence and competition alone. That's the outcome of that summit. Then we can start playing a semantic game, like "do we still call it a eurozone budget or not?', But the fact remains that there will be a budget for only the euro area countries for convergence and competition purposes. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u144	Okay, then we're gonna dissect that third paragraph again. The coalition agreement is clear on two things. The first is that we are not in favour of fiscal capacity. I believe that's the literal phrase. In the corridors, this often means stability. Next, the coalition agreement is also crystal clear that we are in favour of doing more in the field of reform and also of encouraging reforms, of convergence, of en- en-en-en-en-en-en-en-en-en-en-en-en-en-en-en-en-en-en-en-en-en-en. That is exactly what I think we are discussing. That is why I have also said that the discussion as it may now appear... Once again, I can think of things in the text as it stands, together with Mr Van Dijck, which are entirely in line with Dutch policy, but there could also be proposals that are indeed about convergence and competitiveness that we do not want afterwards. I think it is logical that, at the moment they are before us, we should assess them all on their merits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u145	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u146	But, of course, the question is: is there going to be a budget, a pot of money, intended only for euro area countries, not for the non-euro countries, to promote greater convergence and competition? That is the crucial question. If the answer is yes, then there is a kind of euro area budget, just not for the stability function. Today's invitation letter by Donald Tusk also says: "I propose we instruct finance ministers there is one! ""To work on a Euro area budgetary instrument." There you have it exactly: a euro area budgetary instrument. That is a euro area budget, no matter how you turn it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u147	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u148	And my question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u149	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u150	...what the cover is. If this is going to be a 40 billion-dollar pot of money, then you shouldn't be surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u151	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u152	Then you shouldn't be surprised that the MFF will be increased by 40 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u153	The Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u154	In doing so, Mr Van Dijck and I are pulling on the same side of the rope, as I have just said in the direction of Mr Van Rooijen, because this is about the amount of expenditure you are spending. The word "budgetary instrument" is common in all kinds of parts of the MFF. I didn't get that invitation; the Prime Minister got it. So there is no euro area budget in that. That is not an accidental language, I would dare say. But the most important thing is the content. We are concerned with the stabilisation function that we do not want, the stabilisation function. We don't want anything new besides the MFF either. It is good to stress once again that the initial idea was for a separate pot, which was also huge. The fundamental difference is that if I have a discussion within the MFF I would like to stress that to the Chamber this is a discussion in front of all of us. That discussion is about unanimity. That is also the difference with the plan that was originally there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u155	It's one word, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u156	One word?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u157	"Euro area budgetary instrument'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u158	Then I'm gonna repeat myself. It's a budgetary instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u159	From the eurozone!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u160	Then we have to agree that if we want to add that this is the MFF again, we can ask the Heads of Government to appoint it again. But it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u161	I am not the financial spokesman for my party, so I do not know exactly what has been said and not said in all AOs. By the way, my party has never been so opposed to a euro area budget. With my question I want to make a slightly different sound. I'm especially interested in what's coming. There will therefore be an instrument for competition and convergence under the MFF, under the Multiannual Financial Framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u162	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u163	That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u164	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u165	For the eurozone, I hear outside the microphone. Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u166	For the euro area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u167	It is a good thing that there are also financial spokesmen in the Chamber. So it's for the eurozone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u168	But you cannot call it a 'eurozone budget'!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u169	Proceed, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u170	This is all true, but I think that is a little less important at the moment. I want to know exactly what is coming. In my first term, I asked the Minister of Finance what such an instrument would be. We want a lower Multiannual Financial Framework, we want less Dutch payments...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u171	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u172	...we don't want our own resources. We don't want any of that. So what exactly are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u173	Two things to Mr Van Ojik. It is true that one of the discussions and one of the points on which the GroenLinks' cabinet and financial spokesman, Mr Snels, disagree: that is what this should look like. That was precisely about the s-word: the stability mechanism. I have always understood from Mr Snels that GroenLinks is for it, or is potential for it, and the cabinet is not. His question is what it's gonna look like. As far as I am concerned, this is also evident in the text: that is not yet decided. 'Cause what's in those two rules? If the Heads of Government were to decide on a task, so to return the mission, it would be up to the Finance Ministers to work it out. That is why I keep emphasising that we will be there ourselves. So there are all kinds of flavors to think of. I myself consider having a discussion on this issue of the playing field to be very legitimate and sensible. If I talk to Mr Van Dijck, I'm sure he can come up with a version of something that fits on the playing field of convergence and competitiveness but which I wouldn't want anyway. But I can also think of all kinds of variants that I do want and which are totally in line with the reform mandate of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u174	Finally, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u175	For the sake of clarity, my question was not so much prompted by the disagreement between my group and the cabinet on the desirability of a stabilisation instrument. It was really about what we are getting now, because I think it is obvious that we want convergence within the European Union. It probably includes an instrument of any substance. To be honest, we are here for hours trying to minimize the meaning of the instrument that has been agreed: we are there ourselves, it needs to be under the MFF and the MFF needs to be smaller. Hence my question: what is such an instrument of convergence and competition going to be in the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u176	Again in all transparency to Mr Van Ojik: the answer can of course only be that, now that there is no concrete proposal on the table, it depends on what it looks like. Take the discussion we're having within the MFF about innovation. There are two reasons why the Netherlands is always in favour of innovation; that is how I see it. The first reason is that this is part of a 21st-century Union and that we consider this as labelling and as a type of activity to be sensible across the full spectrum of the political spectrum. The second reason is that this piece of innovation comes back to the Netherlands for a substantial part. Let's be honest: that also plays a part, of course. That's why I can also think of versions that aren't there yet; they really aren't there yet that belong to or could be part of that mandating and we're excited about this in a very broad setting. I can also think of a number of which the cabinet would also say: we do not want them. But that's exactly the homework we've been getting. I must say that this is the homework we could get after the euro summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u177	Whether it's called "eurozone budget" or not, I think it's semantics. What matters is what it's going to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u178	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u179	We don't know yet. We don't know where we're landing yet. But is it still one of the possible landing sites for this minister that it could be an existing instrument within existing resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u180	It is indeed within the existing budget. It is therefore within the MFF, but as I have just said in the direction of Mr Verhoeven, there is also a discussion on the Reform Delivery Tool. That is something that we, as the Netherlands, say again: the name alone sounds potentially good and goes a long way in the direction that not only the coalition parties want, as expressed in the coalition agreement, but for which, in my view, there is also wider support within the political spectrum. But I'm not gonna say yes in advance, because it might also be that this Reform Delivery Tool is a creature that we don't want anyway. That is exactly what we are discussing here. So I think it makes sense that we are having a discussion about convergence and competitiveness within the MFF. I am going to look at these proposals not only on their merits; I am also going to take an active part in this discussion in order to ensure that this discussion goes in the right direction. Again, it is no coincidence that the fourth paragraph states that we do not agree on stabilisation and that we do not want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u181	It is already a gain that we in Europe agree that we want convergence. Isn't that right? Can the Minister give us any idea of what he sees in something that you're putting inside the MFF but what is meant for the euro area? Can he say anything about that without compromising his negotiating position?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u182	I find that very complicated at the moment. I really wouldn't want to get ahead of that. One of the things that I think are in that design is that you're going to think about something new. Again, about something new that is on our playing half as far as I'm concerned, but that you then have to judge on his merits. One of the things that is obvious, of course, is to think about the criteria under which you can access it. Why is that potentially interesting again? Well, because we in the Chamber often have discussions about the conditions under which you can access the innovation pot, the agricultural pot or the structural and cohesion pot. So that's why I think this is a potentially interesting discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u183	First, I'd like to introduce... I know, I've seen you, Mr Verhoeven. Minister, I actually want to know how far you are with answering all kinds of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u184	Mr. Chairman. I had a very brief interruption about that budgetary instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u185	I saw that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u186	So I kind of chewed it out. Next I have some about EDIS, Italy, the backstop and very briefly about the Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u187	It's an interesting discussion. It's what's still under negotiation. I understand that, and we can't say too much about that. I did ask: how, if it comes from the MFF? Then I made a suggestion that I thought was on the table. You said that there isn't even one yet. That is true, but if we are going to reform the MFF, if we are going to modernise and if we want to do so, then it is quite logical to come up with the Dutch commitment, namely that we are doing this from the cohesion or CAP funds. That must be a pot, of which we say in the Chamber that it determines in an old-fashioned way a far too large part of the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u188	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u189	So at least let that be something the Minister of Finance can say about, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u190	I would like to refer in particular to everything that the Foreign Minister has already exchanged on this subject. That is indeed about modernising the budget, but it is also about very specific aggrieved language. What's our mission now as far as I'm concerned? Ensure that the European Union also receives a 21st century budget in the 21st century. So as far as the cabinet is concerned, it should be more about innovation and about reforms, it should be more about something like border surveillance, and-and-and-so and possibly, but all of these are much more complex issues, things like the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u191	Good. Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u192	Yes, the major cross-border issues should be the priority of the new MFF. We all agree on this, but it was this convergence function that we are going to get out of the MFF. There has also been broad talk about this. And I'm saying that if you're going to modernise and you're also looking for money for this part within the MFF, it's not that crazy to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u193	I see this as an encouragement, but I find it complicated, precisely because it is true that the question of what and how to do is on the table in 2019. I don't want to get ahead of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u194	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u195	I store the encouragement with priority in my forehead, occipital and memory. Mr. Chairman. I'm at EDIS. We have already had a lot of discussions on this issue. The development is disappointing, because the Netherlands has always said that the potential is an instrument that we need when completing the banking union. This is not only the view of the cabinet, but also, for example, of the President of De Nederlandsche Bank. I've exchanged this with the Chamber before. We have always said: only under very strict conditions. I say immediately in the direction of Mr Van Dijck and also of Mr Stoffer and Mr Ommzigt and others that the NPLs and AQRs will come back around the corner. That is where the weighting of government bonds is crucial, but the reality is that some even ask EDIS the or-question, while others also ask questions about many of these elements. It is clear to us that this risk reduction must take place first. So that discussion will continue and I don't know how it ends. That's why there's nothing in this other than "process." Mr. Chairman. Still about the backstop. I very much agree with much of what Mr Omtzig has said about this. Look, the good news is, of course, that we committed ourselves to that backstop in 2013 and that we committed ourselves to it again in the summer of 2016. As far as I'm concerned, what's the profit? The profit is that there are now specific issues in the text about, for example, the NPLs. And still, in 2019, you'll need another political decision. So that's where we're at. I must honestly say that I could imagine from the Chamber that such an adjustment of the IGA, in which the Chamber itself is present, would in some sense give the Chamber the steering wheel. And it is still the case that, if you were to immediately make a payment to a specific bank after 2024 or whenever you are sitting at the table again and again and have a right of veto. That is quite separate from the whole MRL debate that Mr Omtzig is having and I have had with each other more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u196	Last time, in the AO, the Minister was quite clear: "I agree with the concerns underlying what Mr Omtzigt says about the backstop. That is why I said earlier about the backstop that I am not going to renegotiate that year. The possibility I do have is to say: that's fine, but then I turn on a backstop with one euro in it." Now it seems that in 2023 there will be a backstop of decent size under the ESM, without us having a test. By 2020, that test will be there. Then the key is: have NPLs been reduced enough? But do we still have a test of whether the risks in the banking system have been sufficiently reduced before we back-stop in 2023?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u197	Short reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u198	In 2019, of course, there will be the treaty adaptation anyway. So then we can just look at this text. We also agreed on what this risk reduction should look like. I think that's a profit. That wasn't a deal. So the last part is like this. What if you got that backstop in a minute? You're gonna look at a specific bank. In that case, the Netherlands could press the no button every time. I see that as an improvement on the situation as it was. But for Mr Omtzigt, I would like to write down the details of the situation once again, with regard to the banks and in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u199	I appreciate that anyway, but I also appreciate the following. There will therefore be an amendment to the ESM Convention. All Member States participating in the ESM must unanimously agree to this. These are the euro Member States and perhaps other countries. The Chamber can therefore oppose this if there is no risk reduction by 2023. That's what the minister says here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u200	Yes, but if I understand Mr Omtzigt correctly, he wants to protect himself from a rather theoretical situation, I think. I'm gonna name it the way I think he means it. What if you didn't do anything before and then you didn't do anything about risk reduction? Are you still obligated to do something by 2024? That's how I understand his question. This is important. Then you have the possibility to press the emergency button at any time, and so you can see if that text gives you enough comfort. That is why it specifically states that we still have the political weighting, which I think will be in 2019. I do not have that piece of text here, but it says something like: the political weighting is still coming. But let me write this down again. If we then had the idea that we would have to organize some extras for the theoretical scenario, in which you wait and then do far too little, then we will have to do so. Frankly, I think much of the things we have agreed is a step in the right direction. Because we have now agreed on these NPLs, both gross and net.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u201	I think a lot of steps are going in the right direction. In 2020 there will be agreements on the NPLs, the 5% gross and the 2,5% net, or on "growing towards them." As far as I am concerned, that phrase could have fallen away by mistake, but that aside. But, as I see it now, that guarantee about the NPLs is not in the text at the end of the transition period in 2023/2024. I'd like to see a security deposit or a weighing moment. That is what we have always said here in the Chamber. This may be a moment for submission of the ESM Convention here, or an official moment when it is weighed or the backstop should start in full measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u202	Let me do two things. First of all, let me unravel this whole thing in a letter. I really have the impression that this is about a relatively theoretical exercise. But if, even as a hypothesis, we do not feel sufficiently protected in such a case, then we still have the opportunity to do something about it politically in 2019. But I'd like to get ahead of that moment. I think that we should articulate what all that means, and I would do so here in consultation with the Chamber. That is what you really need to agree on before such a treaty change, because otherwise the option is to shoot that treaty text off. I think I have two homework assignments now. The first is to put this on paper. And the second is: if there were any light left in there...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u203	That's what you said. Otherwise it will be repeated over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u204	Yes, those financial things are sáái, chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u205	Oh, that's not so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u206	... and that's when it comes to a lot of money and risk. But it's good to hear it's not so bad. So I understand two things. Firstly, we can still reject the ESM Treaty here, if not in it. Secondly, we are getting another letter in which the government indicates where the weighing moment can be in order to see if that risk reduction has taken place sufficiently to get a measure of that backstop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u207	I would like to say this in my own words. I would like to do it the other way around. In my view, the letter must first come with the explanation and this must be quite precisely unraveled in it. I think I address Mr Omtzig's concern, which I do not think is very real. In my view, then, step two in time is as follows: if there is still that chance of misery, then I will take it with me in the next round of talks in Brussels, because it will be there. And the third has more of the contours of the emergency brake, but in a treaty adjustment we are of course all there. I think this is a three-stage...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u208	You said that twice or three times. Mrs. Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u209	In any case, I am glad that there will be another explanation, because I think this should be clear. I still do not think it is clear what will happen if we have all said yes in those steps and the non-performing loans have all gone down in a proper way; what instruments will the regulator have if these NPLs are to increase again in later years? Because then they can now x properly meet it, but then it can get completely out of control. Then those risks will still be present.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u210	Yes. That too is an issue which is currently being discussed in Europe. I'm just gonna take a look at the people on the other side. I think it's still in the trilogue. At the moment it's still about the distinction we make between stock and flow: the stocks are the NPLs you have now and the flows are the NPLs you might get later; and that's what Mrs De Vries points out. That is exactly what we must now agree on. And for the record, and that is really important to stress for the Chamber of Representatives, the following is true in that scenario as well. Suppose the NPLs go up again, those agreements don't meet and the supervisors don't play their role well enough, then we can say as the Netherlands by bank again: sorry, but we don't, because we don't like the lead route.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u211	I hope that in the letter he has promised, the Minister will also make a specific comment on this point. I wouldn't want to use the emergency buttons anywhere; I would rather be in favour of this, and have already arranged how we will deal with it in the future, so I wouldn't have to use that emergency button.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u212	Yeah, once. Very briefly about the Court of Auditors and Brexit, which Mr Verhoeven asked for. It was about the 2.3 billion. For the record, that's not structural money, it's a mix. Actually, you could say there are three types of Brexit costs. The first is the money that we now have in structural terms in the budget for customs, for example. The second is that the Court of Auditors has appointed as a risk: what if the British were to stop paying? For the record, they have that commitment, but I understand that the Court of Auditors says 'what if', and that it has something to do with that. The third is actually the greatest risk, and that is about the economic situation. That's about Brexit. Then there was another question about Customs. I believe that the Secretary of State has changed this with the Chamber several times: in total, we are recruiting more than 900 new customs officers. You don't have all those at the first time you could have that hard Brexit, namely at the end of March next year, but you have to be ready. We think we should have filled something between 300 and 400, I think 375. And you should also set up additional capacity. Then you're gonna have to pick up those extra customs officers. That way, we're protected from that whole extreme scenario. Mr. Chairman. Only a brief moment, Italy. In my view, there were a lot of comments on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u213	I see Members want to interrupt, but I want you to finish answering all these questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u214	I think there were a lot of comments about Italy, but relatively few or even no questions. Oh, yeah, there was one. I said earlier that this situation is worrying because of the budget itself, the lack of plans that lead to sustainable growth and the questions that the Commission has with regard to the figures. Mr Omtzig asked the Council of State for its opinion. That is, of course, up to the Chamber itself. I do not see directly what new insights that would bring, I must say in his direction, but the Chamber itself is concerned about whether it still wants to ask questions to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u215	Have you dealt with all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u216	I had that impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u217	Okay. I see Mrs Leijten and Mr Omtzigt. I give the opportunity to ask a short question. Mrs Leijten was there first, but Mr Omtzigt wanted to ask a question about customs. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u218	Yeah, about Customs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u219	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u220	In the previous debate, the Prime Minister said that there are not enough customs officers. He had a whole list of things and said that we can't do certain things. Now the Court of Auditors indicates that choices will have to be made. Have these choices been made and are they feasible? So there are only 375 customs officers of the 925 needed for a hard Brexit. Can we stop checking containers for drugs? Or...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u221	I was a little short, because at the end of this year there are 375. In March there are 500, of which more than 300 are already usable. By the end of 2019, 928 additional customs officers will have entered. Customs will have to set temporary priorities for dealing with the immediate consequences, as not everyone will be there on 29 March. That's what I can say about it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u222	Finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u223	But this question has been before us for six months. We've put him before the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister, and we're now putting him before the Minister of Finance. If there is to be a hard Brexit on 29 March, what we do not hope to do with the government, we must therefore make rather sharp choices, because only one third of the additional customs staff is required. Have those choices been made yet? They would be mapped. What are the consequences? A letter can also be sent to the Chamber on this, because it is starting to be pressing, especially in view of the situation now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u224	I do not know what the latest state of affairs is, so I shall return to it either in the second term or by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u225	Mrs Leijten, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u226	Is it true that the Minister of Finance on June 5... Let's see if it was June or July. Is it true that he said in this Chamber on 5 July that there is a group of countries that are not in favour of a euro area budget and that the Netherlands is a clear exponent of it? If he did say that, what changed in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u227	Then we're really back to the content. Two things. The euro area budget is not in the text we agreed on, but at that time there was a French-German proposal, the Meseberg paper. It was about a euro area budget with stabilisation, about an additional pot of money without being included in the MFF. That's something fundamentally different, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u228	I have one more important question. We have now talked a lot about what was agreed on 3 December. That is important, I think, but of course we are going to the European summit. I have said that I think it is important that the package that is now on the table be reconfirmed. This applies to what has been agreed, but also to what has been agreed on the instruments of competition and convergence. I assume that this will also be the commitment of the Dutch cabinet to the European summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u229	The opportunity to speak on behalf of the Prime Minister is, of course, a matter for both hands. He'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u230	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u231	Mr. Chairman. I must honestly say that I am very disappointed by the Minister for Finance that he has now agreed to the euro area budget and that he claims it as a victory, and that he does not simply admit that despite the fact that we have never wanted to do so, that the Chamber has voted on it several times, that there has been no change in policy and that he has said in the Chamber on 5 July that we are against a euro area budget, that we are in that camp. I do not think that this does justice to the discussion here, to what you agree to in Europe and to what we ultimately say yes to. Then I'd rather he choose the fair line of D66. He says: yes, yes, yes, we want to surrender everything to Brussels. Then do it! But you cannot defend that you are still against a euro area budget on 5 July, that you say to the Chamber before the extra euro group that was organised, "no decision is actually taken at all and the euro area budget is not officially on the agenda', when the outcome is that we have a euro area budget. This is detrimental to the way things are done in the European Union and in the Eurogroup, but it is also detrimental to democracy. That is why I must send the Prime Minister with a clear message. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the eurogroup has decided to set up a euro area budget with the observation that further technical discussions on the stabilisation function will take place;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Court of Auditors on budgetary capacity of the euro area and a euro area budget;]] [[calls on the government not to agree to a proposal for a euro area budget in any form whatsoever,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1395]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u232	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, I would like to thank the rulers for the way in which they have answered the questions. About the Brexit. I hope that this has become clear in the debate too, and I hope that we can do everything that the Dutch Government and the Dutch Prime Minister can do together with others to give that clarification or help to the British Prime Minister. I hope that we will seize the opportunities that exist, however limited, with both hands. The Prime Minister was very pleased with his video on CNN. I was. I told you that. I had referred to what he said about not becoming dependent on dubious regimes for our energy supply. I had asked him whether he had already revised his opinion on Nord Stream. Perhaps he will be able to deal with this in the second term. Finally, Madam President, back to the Brexit. In what way are we prepared for that? How well prepared are we, including at the level of the individual departments? The Prime Minister did indeed refer to a letter dated 7 September on this subject. It's been a while. That letter was also very general. That is why I would like to table a motion on this point. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[predominantly that any hard Brexit has a major impact on the Netherlands;]] [[Considering that in preparing for a hard Brexit departments themselves are responsible for taking the necessary mitigation measures in their policy areas;]] [[whereas the Lower House has insufficient insight into the consequences of a hard Brexit for each department;]] [[calls on the Government to make clear to each department the consequences of any hard Brexit, and to inform the Chamber by the end of January 2019 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1396]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u233	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u234	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance for their detailed reply. I have a few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the budget of the European Union in the current Multiannual Financial Framework amounts to 1% of the national product;]] [[noting that the economy of the European Union is declining by around 15% as a result of the departure of the United Kingdom;]] [[Whereas the increase in prosperity in the EU automatically leads to higher payments;]] [[Whereas new policy priorities for the Multiannual Financial Framework of the EU budget 2021-2027 should be covered by a review of policy priorities from the period 2014-2020;]] [[calls on the Government to continue unequivocally in the negotiations on the new Multiannual Financial Framework of the EU to focus on an equal EU budget of up to 1% of GDP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is not in the top 3 of the most prosperous EU Member States (based on gross domestic product per capita);]] [[states that, on the basis of the level of prosperity, the Netherlands should therefore not be included in the top 3 net contributors to the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1397]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1398]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u235	And the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a major political stalemate is likely to arise around the Multiannual Financial Framework 2020-2027 of the EU budget;]] [[noting the very important role of Germany and France as the engine block of European integration;]] [[whereas the Dutch net EU contribution per capita in the current MFF, despite a discount, is significantly higher than the German EU contribution;]] [[whereas Germany and France seem more inclined to accept a higher EU budget than the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to make an urgent suggestion to the German and French governments that a higher EU budget can easily be financed through a premium on the German and French payments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1399]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u236	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u237	Mr. Chairman. What is the profit of this debate while we look at the chaos on the other side of the Channel? In any case, the Prime Minister's statement that he is in favour of postponing the deadline. If we agree that this backstop is bad for Europe and for the United Kingdom, it might be badly needed in the coming period. Two. The Prime Minister has also expressed his shame at what is happening in Greece and his commitment to doing something about it. I ask him to respond to this after the euro summit. I understand he can't represent the conversations with Tsipras verbatim, but I really want us to get further than we have been so far. I leave the choice for the instrument with the cabinet, but it really has to be done. It is unacceptable for us to see that in Europe. Three, about the climate. It is quite clear that the Prime Minister has not yet dared to indicate that there should be a CO levy. However, he clings to the goal and holds on to the deadline, despite the fact that Hans de Boer is threatening to run away with the tables. In order to support the cabinet and also to echo the words of the D66 leader, I have the following motion on behalf of colleagues Van Ojik and Leijten. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission recently called for a climate-neutral Europe in 2050;]] [[noting that measures are now needed to pass on a clean and viable planet to subsequent generations;]] [[considers that the Dutch should not pay too high a price for the energy transition;]] [[Calls on the Government to introduce a CO levy for industry and the energy sector and to use its revenues to reduce household energy bills;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to this type of action at European level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1400]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u238	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u239	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u240	Mr. Chairman. The credo with which the SGP entered Europe together with the Christian Union a few years ago was "European cooperation yes, superstate no!" That's how we stand in it, and that's how we stand in it. But when I listen to this debate today, I hear a number of things that I am quite critical of. If we ask whether there will be a shock fund or a euro area budget, the answer is no. But Mrs Leijten also pointed out just now that there seems to be something going a bit that way. That's what we're worried about. We can see that the European train is just piercing. In my first term I have already indicated that many Dutch people are tired of that. We're tired of that, too. After these hours, I've actually become more euro-criticismal than I already was. Okay, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion on the Brexit. I'll read it to you soon. Otherwise, my time is up. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the present Brexit Agreements between the United Kingdom and the European Union are unlikely to be able to count on a majority of the British Parliament;]] [[Whereas the concerns within the United Kingdom relate mainly to the Northern Ireland border issue and the lack of clarity as to the possibilities for the United Kingdom to leave the customs union ("backstop" regime in the future;]] [[Whereas the rejection of the Brexit deal by the United Kingdom could lead to a hard Brexit, which would cause very serious damage to the Dutch economy;]] [[having noted that Commission President Juncker stated in the European Parliament that the proposed Brexit Agreements between the United Kingdom and the EU could not be renegotiated;]] [[calls on the Government to take into account the real concerns of the United Kingdom, such as the temporaryity of the backstop and customs union arrangements, and not to exclude adaptation of the Brexit deal in this light,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1401]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u241	Mr. Chairman. It's word games. It's a semantic discussion. This Minister of Finance was pertinent to a euro area budget for stabilisation, convergence and competition. He even said that this would be an excuse for a further transfer union. But now he is in favour of a euro area budget for convergence and competition. Let go of the word "stabilization," and this minister is over. Mr. Chairman. I also wonder how it is possible to bring a pot of money intended only for euro area countries under the MFF? What do the non-euro countries say about that? 'Cause they're gonna pay for it. The non-euro countries are often not the richest countries either. So I wonder: isn't this a prelude to a separate budget and to a separate budget? That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas a separate budget for euro area countries is a prelude to a further transfer union;]] [[calls on the government not to agree to a euro area budget in any form whatsoever,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1402]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u242	Mr. Chairman. I have a second motion on the multiannual framework, and in particular on the new own resources, because that is what the PVV is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u243	Were you ready, Mr. Tony van Dijck?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u244	Shall I read the motion first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u245	Mrs Leijten has another question on the first motion. Mrs Leijten, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u246	If I hear the first motion in this way, I have not yet seen the text, of course, it is the same as the motion I tabled. I fully support the idea that we should not be messed up in the transfer union. Shall we shove the motions together?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u247	That's always very convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u248	No problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u249	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u250	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the European Commission proposes no less than three new own resources in its proposal for the multiannual budget 2021-2027;]] [[calls on the Cabinet not to agree to the introduction of any new own resource,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1403]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Prime Minister for the answer, including the Brexit questions. I would like to call on him to put his beautiful CNN text on the Dutch tube as well and not in his boarding school English, but in plain language so that everyone knows where the Prime Minister stands on climate change and the improvement of the climate. Beautiful. Then the Minister of Finance. I promised to check again what we thought about his pro-European approach. My group thinks that the position between Germany and France is better than that on the conservative side of Germany. It can be somewhat less conservative and confrontative and more creative and cooperative. Let me say, then, that at least I think the explanation given in this debate about the whole of the euro area debate is clear. When I hear the reactions of the SP and the PVV, I do not think that there has been such a wrong proposal at all and that it is, at least for now, a good step forward in improving convergence, cooperation and financial stability in Europe in general and in the euro area in particular. I would also like to thank Mrs Leijten once again in this debate, who even added to me that she found the D66 line so honest and clear. I thank her for that, because I think that this is only positive in the context of the debates that we will have to have together on this subject in the future. I had a few other things. I'll have to file a motion, too. It's about the Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u252	Before you proceed with the motion, Mrs Leijten would like to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u253	In my view, Mr Verhoeven's explanation of the outcome of this debate and the joy of D66 on the outcome of the euro area budget is precisely proof that the opposition of the VVD and the CDA to the transfer union is now really broken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u254	I really leave the words to Mrs Leijten. I just said that I think we need to be clear about what has come out. I like the outcome as it is now. Well, then I agree with everything that has been said about the clarity of our party on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u255	Yes, the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u256	Yes, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas in November the Government of Prime Minister May and the European Union reached an agreement on the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union;]] [[whereas the present agreement is the preferred option for the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the EU, but it is possible for the UK Parliament to reject this deal;]] [[whereas a no-deal will be very damaging to the United Kingdom, but also to the Netherlands and the rest of the EU;]] [[states that if the United Kingdom rejects the Brexit Agreement, the Dutch Parliament stresses that a British decision to remain in the EU would be very welcome,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven, Mr Bruins, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Leijten, Mr Asscher and Mr Van Rooijen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1404]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u257	Yeah, I think it's good that I leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u258	Thank you. Mrs Aukje de Vries has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u259	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the Brexit. A motion has just been tabled to inform the Chamber at some point. I assume that we will be informed by the cabinet as soon as there is a problem somewhere. I think it is important that people are given certainty about what the consequences are, that entrepreneurs are given security and that citizens in the country are given security. I still had the question whether we are simply on schedule on the various fronts to be ready for a possible doom scenario on 29 March, which I certainly do not hope will take place. I have two further points on risk reduction. I had asked the Minister of Finance about the zero weighting of government bonds and the stress tests. We believe that this is important, for example in relation to the European deposit guarantee scheme or the European insurance system. We do not think it can be that you are working on one thing and are not actually working on the other at all. Then the intention to allow bond holders and investors to co-pay to countries that are in trouble. The intention has been expressed to regulate this by 2022. I assume that this part of the risk reduction will also be taken up rapidly by the European countries. Finally, the euro area budget. I have to tell you, I thought it was a long discussion. I really cannot understand why people can read a euro budget for stabilisation and shock absorption in the proposals that are currently before us. I find that completely incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u260	Thank you, Mrs Aukje de Vries. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u261	Mr. Chairman. In 1915, in his book The Arab and His Camel, the author Horace Scudder wrote: "It is a wise rule to resist the beginnings of evil." And yes, I see the danger that we're dealing with a camel nose that suddenly turns out to be a camel and is in your tent. And it is clear that the negotiated outcome for the euro area gives room for all possible frames. If semantics are further defined in the coming days and agreements become more concrete, then it is up to Prime Minister Rutte to sit tight in the competition, to ensure that he does not deviate from what Minister Hoekstra has achieved and from how the minister in the Chamber explained and interpreted the results today. I want to be able to count on that. In the second term, I would like to say that the Prime Minister promised to give us a clear 'yes' in the first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u262	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. Finally, Mr Omtzigt, on behalf of the CDA. Mr. Ommzigt, walk on. No, it's the Prime Minister's fault, indeed. He started it. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u263	Fine, Mr. Chairman, because I always get blamed for everything at home. Mr. Chairman. It may sound joly, but we must not forget that we are in an extremely turbulent European environment. The Prime Minister will feel this ferocity in the coming days at the European summit. He doesn't have a clue as to which of the United Kingdom can join. He still has no idea whether the French know at all what their budget looks like and whether it is above 3.5%. We don't have a clue with the Italians either. And which Belgian government is there and by whom it is supported, remains always a very interesting question that he can ask. This means that Europe has fallen into very turbulent waters. The first turbulent sailing water they have to come out of is that Brexit. That is why I think it is a clear signal that some seven parties are putting on the table, that we would not mind if the United Kingdom chose not to be forced to stay. They remain our allies. I also welcome the clear commitment that, if they remain, we will also have a different negotiating position in the MFF. That'll help, too. I thank the Minister of Finance for coming in with a letter about the backstop. It is extremely important that we keep this emergency brake if there is no risk reduction. Because that's the scenario. We make great agreements in Europe, every day. If only half of them had been fulfilled, we would not have these discussions here. But they're not being honored. The French do not remain below 3% for the 10th year in 11 years. That's serious. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Council of State with the State of the euro has delivered a valuable opinion on the future of the euro;]] [[noting that it is also possible that a country does not adhere structurally to deficit and debt standards and that a banking sector in a Member State is not being cleaned up;]] [[calls on the Council of State to provide a further opinion on the consequences of structural non-compliance with agreements as soon as possible and to formulate policy options and precautionary measures that could be taken by the Netherlands, as well as to advise on a situation where several Member States and several banking systems are facing problems simultaneously,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1405]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u264	Yes, a brief question to Mr Omtzigt. Does he also think that with the extra 10 billion from Macron last Monday, which means that the deficit exceeds 3%, the 3.5% should now be the same procedure for France as for Italy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u265	I think that Mr Moscovici should look at France's budget as soon as possible. France was in the category that was just under Italy. It was not in the category "safe" but in the category "you do not meet it, but not as bad as Italy." I think that we should reconsider which category France falls into, as I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u266	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u267	Mr. Chairman. It's still the Magnitsky Act, we heard. And you will continue to work on Turkey, but do so in Europe as much as possible. I call on Turkey to continue its efforts to get those reports up and running. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u268	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Mrs. Leijten is not standing before you, Mr. Omtzigt. You may sit down again. Mrs Leijten wanted to pass on a very brief change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u269	The signing of my motion has been extended. I'll make sure the clerk gets her, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u270	What motion is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u271	That's the motion in part No. 1395. The signatures of Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV and Mr Stoffer of the SGP were included. And a second recital has been added, which reads: whereas a separate budget for euro area countries is a prelude to a further transfer union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u272	The Leijten/Van Rooijen motion (No ) has been amended to the effect that it has now been signed by Mr Leijten, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Stoffer, and reads: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the eurogroup has decided to set up a euro area budget with the observation that further technical discussions on the stabilisation function will take place;]] [[whereas a separate budget for euro area countries is a prelude to a further transfer union;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Court of Auditors on budgetary capacity of the euro area and a euro area budget;]] [[calls on the government not to agree to a proposal for a euro area budget in any form whatsoever,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 1395 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u273	Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, I will report the following.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u274	I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u275	Mr. Chairman. There are two more questions. The first one was about Nord Stream 2. Before Christmas, a letter will be sent to the Chamber. You know our position on Nord Stream 2. I can read it all again, but there will be a letter to the Chamber before Christmas. Maybe I can refer to that. To Mr Bruins' question I would like to say that the answer is yes. Square, yeah. I can repeat the question and formulate the answer in more detail, but I think it is perfectly clear: we are in exactly the same line there. Then to the motions. I'll do some. The Minister of Finance is doing a few. The Van Ojik motion in part No. 1396 is, as far as I'm concerned, "Room of Justice." The Van Rooijen motion in part No. 1397: dissuade. The government's commitment is not to have an increase in payments due to the Brexit and to ensure that the Netherlands remains in a comparable group of net contributors. So motion to part No. 1397: dissuade. The Van Rooijen motion in part No. 1398: dissuade. Member States pay on the basis of prosperity and the elaboration of the own resources decision. There may be discounts in that too. So motion to part No. 1398: dissuade. The Van Rooijen motion in part No. 1399: dissuade. This doesn't work that way, of course. Member States shall pay again on the basis of their own GNI, on the basis of their economic situation. They also pay on the basis of their own resources, but it is not the case that we can give orders to other governments. So motion to part No. 1399: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u276	A brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u277	I shall come back to the motion on part No. 1397, on the 1% maximum GDP. The Prime Minister dissuaded that motion, but is he not prepared to commit himself to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u278	No. Why should we? Even if Europe decides to go up to 5%, as long as we get a reduction in the size of it, I do not care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u279	That is, of course, an unrealistic remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u280	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u281	My question is whether the Prime Minister, on behalf of the cabinet, would like to work towards a 1% ceiling, given that England is leaving.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u282	No. We are committed to ensuring that our payments do not increase because of the Brexit and that we are in a group of similar net contributors. We do this through a mix of ceiling, rebates and all possible instruments. We are not going to use one instrument, but we are going to use a mix of instruments. 'Cause couple...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u283	The motion in part No. 1400.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u284	... that Europe comes at 1.5% or 2% and we get a discount the size of which is good, isn't it? That's not gonna happen, and I can see that, but you shouldn't bet on one element. That's really unwise. The motion in part No. 1400 is untimely. I have already said this to Mr Asscher in the debate: first at national level, then at European level. Anyway, we had that discussion in the first term. The CO levy for industry is indeed part of our thinking, but I do not want to commit to it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u285	And?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u286	That's how I dissuade the motion. I can also invite Mr Asscher to hold the motion, but if he wishes to see the motion put to the vote in its present form, I must advise against it. In the motion in part No. 1401 is asked for an adjustment of the Brexit deal. That's really out of the question. This motion I must advise against. The motion in part No. 1403 seems to me to be going too far. We are not waiting for new own resources, but the motion is too short. We are not in favour of own resources, but every time we come up with proposals, we want to be able to judge in a real way whether they are simple, transparent and just. In the past, for example, we have had debates here on what to do with the ETS system. We don't feel much like that either. Capturing it like that, I think it's a little out of line. The motion in part No. 1403 I must therefore advise against. The judgment on the motion in part No. 1404 I leave to the Chamber. Excuse me, this motion is not judgmental Chamber. This is a matter for the Chamber itself; I must put it that way. The Minister of Finance will deal with the remaining motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u287	I call the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u288	Mr. Chairman. For me, two things remained in the first term. I would have said, however, that the weighting of government bonds remains, of course, a very important element in many of these discussions, particularly at Aedes, and that this is true of the stress test in general and in particular of the AQRs, the asset quality reviews, the very detailed pictures you take of banks. I say this to Mr Omtzigt. There's 4,000 people working at Customs. That gives some room for reprioritisation, but I will ask the Secretary of State to send a letter to the Chamber on Brexit and Customs prior to the debate which I believe he has with him in February. How this capacity allocation takes place will be read in that letter; I cannot now answer that in detail. The motion in part No. 1395 is not recommended because of the word 'eurozone budget', the piece on the transfer union and the comment on the technical discussions. These are not clearly political discussions. On the motion in part No. 1405 I have to say the same thing as about the motion on item No. 1404 has been said. This is a matter for Parliament itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u289	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-9.u290	We shall be voting on all motions for resolutions in ten minutes' time. I shall suspend the sitting until 5.10 p.m.
