ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now turn to Mr Van Nispen's question on behalf of the SP to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I would also like to welcome, on police capacity to combat cybercrime. I call Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Less than two years ago, a strength-weakness analysis of the BOLO showed that the police are dealing with a huge quality problem in detectives. Classically trained agents struggle with the digitalising society, where criminals have the means to fight their battles from a distance, the report states. The minister promised to get better, we'd get to work on this. But what does it turn out to be? There's far too little money for training cops. This is reflected in internal police documents that De Telegraaf published extensively yesterday. No money is available for the necessary training for digital detection, zero point zero euro. I really don't understand how this is possible. Why does the Minister let it happen that there is no investment in the expertise and skills of our police officers? Everyone understands the importance of e.g. digital detection, don't they? Think about the fight against child pornography on the Internet. But for almost all major crime cases you need digital specialists, for example to read a smartphone, to crack passwords or to restore deleted files. What does this mean for the quality of detection? Don't we have big risks with this? I actually have one question for the Minister: is he going to promise today that the money for digital detection, for training with the police, will be available?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a bit like old times with that television series Columbo: I'm going to tell the plot right at the start. Yeah, there's gonna be money available for cyber. That's what's there. I may have taken the excitement out of my speech right away, but you will forgive me if I talk a little further, as a result of that message that Mr Van Nispen is talking about. I would also like to point out that I appreciate and support Mr Van Nispen's commitment to ensuring that the police have specialist training. I also think it is very important. But let me drop the door: the message is not complete and rather premature. It is a draft memo which forms part of the ongoing annual decision-making process to ensure that funds are used. The police themselves have already stated in a response that what is stated in this memo is only about the budget for external training as far as the police are concerned. As you know, most of the budget for development and training goes to the Police Academy. This is spent on basic police training, but it is also spent on specialist further education. There are also things like digital detection and digital file-forming. Of course, choices must also be made when it comes to capacity and budget. But the suggestion that cyber is not a crucial issue? I really want to reassure Mr Van Nispen. At least I hope that's what I'm gonna do when I say this. Every year there is 13.8 million for cyber as a special contribution to the police. With the 2018 Millions note, 6 million additional reserves have been made. That's 39 fte. The 2017 Spring Note already released 1.5 million extra for cyber. The number of digital specialists within the police organisation has also increased significantly in recent years. These specialists have also followed the necessary training courses. We are continuing this development. As you know, the coalition agreement stipulated that the police would receive an additional EUR 267 million in structural terms for a number of cases. I've already cleared the first 100 million for this year. I have informed your Chamber that there is also money in it for ICT and ICT experts, among others. I therefore believe that the necessary measures are being taken...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u5	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u6	Once again, I hope that Mr Van Nispen is distracting from this that it is also my priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u7	I'm not quite reassured yet. The Minister can say here that it's a priority, but I'm actually afraid the Minister's mixing up a few jars of money right now. Of course, tackling cybercrime is not the same as digital detection. Cybercrime involves complex cases such as very complicated hacks and bypassing security. Digital tracking is about all kinds of large-scale crime cases. We are therefore talking about complex fraud cases and the fight against child pornography. Vice detectives are on those cases and they call in the help of a digital specialist. There is no money for these training courses for this year. I have the spending plan in front of me here: EUR 6.7 million is needed for digital detection, but EUR zero is allocated. But that's not the only thing. Take the driving training of police officers: zero euros will be allocated for this. Take away crime money. We all say that crime should not pay and that we should pick criminals, but EUR zero is allocated to police training. Think of first aid by the police, for example those CPR courses. For this, EUR zero is also allocated. Today there was a message on Omroep West with the title Police officers haven't been getting first aid training for years or hardly. So this is also about life-saving actions such as CPR. So there are big problems. I do not think the Minister can say 'yes, but we have all kinds of money' here, because if you do, you divide the scarcity. Those jars of money are also there to appoint extra agents. I don't think you can use those jars of money right now to make a commitment here to a question I didn't ask, because there's money for cybercrime, but not for digital detection. So again the question to the Minister: can he promise that the training which I did not mention will also be arranged for this year? Can the Minister guarantee that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u8	I don't have the piece of paper Mr. Van Nispen has. But if that's a printout of the piece that the newspaper report was about, then I have to say that that's not an established spending plan. That is a discussion paper and that is, once again, about external hiring, among other things, when it comes to digital tracking. As far as the first aid is concerned, the police have said in a message today equestrianly: listen, we need to sail more sharply to the wind; we need to deal with this more nationally. I think that this also shows that the police are critical when there is simply a serious factual basis for this. You may also really appeal to me, should you notice that this is not the case. Finally, I would like to say the following. I've had quite a speech. At some point it was also said "fine, it has been nice," and rightly so. In my speech, I made it clear that there is investment in digital detection and that the number of digital specialists is increasing. So I really hope that I can still get Mr Van Nispen a little over that threshold. And by the way, the fact that cybercrime is being invested, for example, means in itself that specialism is being invested, because it is hard to sit and stare at a computer screen and say: there is obviously cybercrime, but I don't know how it works. Through you, Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Van Nispen, who I know only as someone who is critical and right to point this out, that there is indeed investment in digital training.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u9	I'd be happy to give this minister the benefit of the doubt. If he promises here today that we're going to invest in digital tracking, I want to believe him and I'm going to follow him critically. But it's not the same as the money for the police academy. The Minister can't put it out here like "yes, it's only externally hired, so that doesn't matter very much." I've received several signals from the practice, from the workplace, from agents who say, "We're concerned." The Minister knows there are concerns. Those concerns are known to him. If the minister says he doesn't know the play, I'll let him have it. I would like the Minister to say that these specialists are guaranteed for the future, regardless of whether they are internal or external. This applies not only to digital detection, but also to driving, first aid by the police and the taking of crime money. You can't invest too little in the training, because if you do that and you don't keep up the skills of the agents, you run big risks for the future. Again, the Minister gets the benefit of the doubt. I hope that we do not conclude here after the end that there have been several games of money mixed up. The game we are talking about here is also made up of 22 million. But there was an overdemand of 20 million. A great deal of additional training is therefore needed, all of which have not been awarded. I would like to hear from the Minister once again that he says that this money is apparently too small, that we are not going to divide up the scarcity and that these training courses are all assured. I'm gonna hold the minister to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u10	I really want to make a serious attempt towards Mr Van Nispen. Both in primary police education and in specialist education, education is offered in the field of digital skills and also in the field of cyber. I have said that this implies additional digital skills. In addition, other external parties provide training. That's what the draft memo is about, the discussion piece you're referring to, unless you have another piece, but I don't know that at all. Once again, I am currently talking to the Chief of Police and the authorities to see how we are using these extra funds, some of which have gone into ICT and ICT training. I will certainly take your thoughts with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u12	I have heard the Minister say that every year 13.8 million is structurally available for ICT. I've heard him say this is equivalent to 39 fte. We all know the advertising with the text "Are you an expert in IT? Make it police work." This recruitment target is 2,500 ICTs. There is a gap between 39 fte and the recruitment target. Could the Minister perhaps shed some light on that? In other words: is this objective financially feasible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u13	I must confess to you, Madam President, that Mrs Helder finds me in the heart of knowledge. I really should check the recruitment target. I don't know it, but I'm quite willing to check it out for you and come back to it in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u14	Is writing an option, Mrs. Helder?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u15	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u16	Then we'll get the Minister's information by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u17	Could that be allowed for the AO on 15 March, if that's feasible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u18	Is there an AO on March 15th? I do not know exactly, but I will see to it that you have the letter before 15 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u19	An AO is a committee debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u20	I would like to focus more specifically on one specific course. It's about helping cops take criminal money. We know the numbers have been adjusted downwards, so we expect to take less criminal money than originally expected. Is it true that there are courses that are helpful for cops to make more work of taking criminal money? If so, can the Minister assure us that at least that will be invested in it? It seems to me that these costs will be taken out quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u21	Let me mention the same thing as before. I'm telling you right now, we're definitely still investing in training that helps detectives and police officers take away criminal money. That's one thing. Another thing is that you are talking about a reduction in the amount for which it is intended. This may have to do with the fact that in 2017 there were particularly high benefits in the decline. You know that we should not set the budget for that. I suspect that's the cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you.
