ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u1	The Foreign Minister is now present. I'd like to welcome him to section K. We are going to the last question, that of Mr Sjoerdsma about the report revealing the lists of mosques in the Netherlands receiving foreign funding from Saudi Arabia and Gulf States. I call Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. A year and a half ago, I was also present here, including in Question Time and on the same subject. Mr Asscher, Minister for Social Affairs at the time, was opposed to me. I asked whether the Netherlands is receiving information from the Gulf States about mosques' requests for funding to these dubious regimes. Only now, and a year and a half later, are we ready to answer this question publicly with a yes, thanks to Nieuwsuur and NRC. Yes, the Netherlands is being consulted. Yes, millions flow from Gulf states to the Netherlands. Yeah, that money buys dangerous influence. We shouldn't be explaining the red carpet here for unfree ideologies. We must not allow our freedom of religion to be abused. The Court has always stressed the concerns about these funding flows and the importance of transparency on these issues, from right to left. Because what is being preached in these salafistic mosques is not nothing and sometimes runs counter to the essential values we know here in the Netherlands: freedom, democracy and equality between men and women. This foreign influence has a negative effect on integration and also leads to conflicts within those mosques themselves. As far as my group is concerned, funding flows for such purposes must be addressed. That starts with transparency about this. I have two questions about the information to the Chamber. The information currently available to the Court concerns only the period 2010-2013 and concerns only two countries. I ask the Minister if he is prepared to make the lists public. Is he also willing to send the post-2013 information to the Chamber? In addition to information, I also ask for action. How is the government actually going to increase transparency about these funding flows and actually limit funding in the event of abuse? Finally, yesterday Newsuur also revealed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would have frustrated the investigation requested by the Chamber about these funding flows. That was under Koenders. I ask this Minister if he is prepared to make a fresh start. Is he willing to do it differently? I am also asking this on behalf of Mr Segers of the Christian Union. Does this Minister intend to cooperate fully in a new investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u3	I call the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I apologize for my late arrival, but I was present at lunch with the President of Mexico. Mr Sjoerdsma asked about the reports on the foreign financing of mosque organisations in the Netherlands. The cabinet shares the concerns expressed by Mr Sjoerdsma and heard from other Members of Parliament about non-transparent funding from Gulf States, which may result in undesirable behaviour. We also find such a way of financing undesirable. In this context, a number of letters have been sent to the Chamber in recent years, and very recently. The image that I also thought I heard at the beginning of Mr Sjoerdsma's speech, namely that the Chamber would not have had information, I contradict it. In both 2016 and 2017, the Chamber was given a confidential overview of the current funding flows from Gulf States to mosque organisations in the Netherlands. This was done confidentially because we obtained the information on a voluntary basis from a number of Gulf States. If that were to happen without confidentiality, we would have had little or no information. That would have harmed the ultimate objective of both the Chamber at that time and the Cabinet in order to have as much access as possible to these funding flows and thus to be able to see where dangerous effects could arise from them. Again, that information has been given to the Chamber confidentially and repeatedly. Mr Sjoerdsma's first question is whether I am prepared to make the lists public. That still seems unwise to me because this will cause the flow of information to dry up. I believe that the Chamber and the Cabinet have the same objective, namely to get as much picture as possible of the flows of money. That purpose would harm you. The second question is whether the research of the WODC would be frustrated. An investigation was carried out on behalf of the WODC by the RAND Corporation. The RAND Corporation had confidential access to the lists known at that time, but subject to the same confidentiality as the Chamber. This is from the same background, namely that otherwise the provision of information would be possible. The cabinet is and remains prepared to ask the Gulf States for confidential information and to share it with the Chamber in the same way it has always done. Mr Sjoerdsma also asked whether it would be appropriate to carry out a new WODC investigation. I find it difficult to answer yes or no. Last week, the Chamber received a letter from my colleagues from Social Affairs and Employment and Security and Justice on how they want to deal with further transparency of funding of mosque organisations from their perspective, partly with possible legal measures. It seems to me that it would be a good idea, in the context of the discussion of that letter, to look at the added value of additional research. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u5	I expect a little more from this minister. He starts by saying that the Chamber has been informed. Yes, the Chamber has been informed, confidentially, thanks to the work of the people who are now here at the interrupt microphone, who have asked Parliamentary question on Parliamentary question, with a WOB request from Nieuwsuur on it. There was then a confidential list for the period 2010-2013. It was then necessary to drag again in order to ensure that additional information would be provided. I would like to emphasise that transparency is essential on this issue. I repeat my request: let us make that list public. I understand the confidentiality of diplomatic movements, including as a former diplomat, but at the same time there is also an interest of Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States in making this public. Then they can show that they want to help fight people who want to finance jihadist, anti-integrative, anti-democratic sympathies, and then they can show themselves to be a true partner of cooperation. Secondly, the investigation. I really think it is important for us to see the full extent of this funding, because I was shocked by that 10% of Nieuwsuur. The minister says there's been full cooperation. The researchers seem to say that there has not been full cooperation. There's just light in there. I ask the Minister very seriously to see whether this investigation should not be repeated, so that the Chamber and the Cabinet, regardless of the implementation of the government agreement, know the extent of this problem and what we can do about it. I'm saying that because there really are problems again. I refer to the Essalammoskee, which was financed from Dubai, where influence was bought. I mention the example of Dordrecht, where it appears that the same is true and where equality between men and women is disputed. That is really important undermining of what we are facing in the Netherlands and we must do something about D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. There is no difference of opinion between Mr Sjoerdsma and the government on the concerns about funding with the aim of spreading radicalism and the importance of greater transparency. Mr. Sjoerdsma's first question was to make the list public. If by a large majority the Chamber wants the list to be public, the government will not block it, but I predict that the list will be very short, because the countries from which it comes will respond to the fact that that information will become public, so the end result will be: less information. The question is whether this is an attractive outcome, against the background of shared care about those funding flows. The second question concerns re-examination. I replied in the first term that I am not necessarily opposed to new research, but that the quality of research depends on the specific question and whether there is new information. Hence my suggestion to link this with the further measures announced by the cabinet in the letter of 29 March, to look for more transparency, possibly in the form of legal measures, as well as along the route of contacts with mosque organisations. Then you can also deactivate a more targeted research assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Then I'll go to Mrs Karabulut, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u8	The problem is very serious, but with the Minister I do not belong to that urgency. The Minister cannot and must not continue to hide behind his diplomatic posts. Our safety is at stake here. This Gulf State not only finances jihadist groups in the Middle East, it exports wahabism and Salafism, which does not relate to our fundamental rights and our democracy, also to the Netherlands. The number of salafistic mosques has doubled, we know thanks to good investigative work by journalists. The number of salafistic preachers has doubled. So my question to the Minister is: when will that information become public so that we know and can act on it? When is the Minister finally going to implement the long-cherished desire of a majority of this Chamber for laws and regulations to prohibit this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u9	I do not disagree with Mrs Karabulut either about the fact that this is a worrying and important development. Mrs Karabulut asks for the list to be made public. I have indicated that the likely consequence is that the flow of information will be very limited. But once again, if the House finally says by a majority that it is prepared to accept that price or risk, it is not that I oppose it in principle. But you should not blame me for not pointing out to you the possible consequences. The letter of 29 March, from colleagues from Social Affairs and Justice and Security, deals with legal measures. It seems to me necessary to deal with them as soon as possible, in order to give them the desired follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u10	The impatience of the Chamber is felt very widely here, I think. We have been talking about this for years. Many motions have been tabled and many concerns have been expressed. There was such an investigation then. I think it is a good idea to broaden this debate in a separate debate, because it affects our rule of law, our freedom and the protection of that freedom. I think it would be good to talk about it a little longer in the broader sense. But now a question about the investigation that was carried out at the time, as a result of a motion by this Chamber. The information is confidential. We can't do anything with that, but we can't do anything with that. The researcher received the information yesterday in Nieuwsuur and then said: I do not know this information. It is quite curious that a researcher is being sent out on our behalf and is trying to find out how large the amount of aid is and with what nature and with what motive that support is being given, and that he is now getting information that was available at the Foreign Office but which he says he does not know. What is the Foreign Minister's statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u11	If Mr Segers puts it that way, I can imagine his surprise. I would like to come back to this in writing, because I want to be able to look at it here, and I cannot forget the confidential list that was shown to the investigator at the time and how it relates to the list that has now come out. There have been two moments when confidential lists have been sent to the Chamber. I don't see exactly when the investigator saw which list. So I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u12	When will that written information be sent to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u13	We can do that this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u14	Okay. Then I'll go first to Mr. Krol, on behalf of 50PLUS. It was there before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u15	When financing from abroad can be classified as terrorist financing, we can intervene, but that will in most cases be very difficult to prove. Mr Sjoerdsma has already spoken about dubious regimes. Can we do something if there is funding from countries where there is no freedom of speech and where there is no freedom of religion? Does the minister have a coat rack there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u16	At the moment, that would require an amendment of the law. This was the subject of the letter from colleagues on 29 March. That debate will be continued in the Chamber. In order to block money flows, a legal basis is needed in a rule of law. Of course, you also need to think carefully about the possibilities of circumvention that exist by allowing a flow of money to pass through another country first. But you can read in the letter from colleagues on this matter that the government's full commitment is to look for viable routes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u17	Security is paramount to the VVD. For this purpose, it may be important that information available in the services is shared as much as possible with departments and, where possible, with the Chamber. But what the VVD considers even more important is that we take action and ensure that funding from non-free countries is banned, as we agreed in the government agreement. So I would like to ask the Minister: is that going to be settled by the cabinet in the foreseeable future? Because we just don't want these funding flows towards the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u18	I agree with Mrs Becker that action is even more relevant than information. That is also the reason why the Chamber has received the letter from colleagues, which indicates how to use legal pathways and how to engage in contacts with mosque organisations. In the coalition agreement, the cabinet also set out the ambition to tackle the financial flows. I have just mentioned a few legal questions, which you naturally want to put down in advance. What is your basis for limiting money flows? How do you deal with avoidances? In addition, money is transferred to a country where no alarm bell rings and from there it is transferred to the Netherlands. How can you handle such an avoidance construction? This requires careful work, but I know that the colleague from the Justice and Security Committee is working hard on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u19	Yes, then it's Minister Dekker. It has indeed announced legislation by mid-summer, but we are also waiting for legislation by Minister Koolmees, the Minister for Integration, to actually ban it. Does Minister Koolmees also share data with municipalities where these mosques are located in order to take real action there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u20	The commitment is to share the information with municipalities as well. Since this is not indeed done by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I cannot now tell you which municipality has received what information. But you don't have that information for nothing, so the stakes are to share it with municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u21	We've been talking about this for years. Unfortunately, there has been little progress so far in combating this funding of radical Islamic ideas in the Netherlands. I ask the Minister, also as Minister for Foreign Affairs, to do the following. Isn't it strange that if you want to transfer money as a humanitarian organisation in the Netherlands to Syria, for example, you can't do that because you're against all kinds of restrictions because it's on a penalty list, but that it's obviously possible from all kinds of dubious countries to let money go to the Netherlands? If we have that alertness about the flows of money to countries where everything is going on, then we should also have a reciprocal effect. Couldn't there be a point of reference there to take action quickly and not get stuck in explorations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u22	There are indeed countries, such as Syria, which are subject to international sanctions. This means that the Netherlands, as well as other countries, control and, where necessary, block money or other traffic with these countries. This is not the case in countries where no international sanctions have been agreed against. You need an international appointment for the reason I just gave you: if the Netherlands were the only one to take a measure, you should always ask the question how you deal with a payment that goes first to a neutral country, and then to the Netherlands. So that is one of the relevant questions in the further elaboration of the law the cabinet is working on. But that really requires careful action, because otherwise you will not have an effective instrument to deal with these money flows and that is what you ultimately want from Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you. Mrs Karabulut wishes to make a point of order, which is a point of order and not a discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u24	No, Mr. Chairman, certainly not a discussion. The Minister just indicated that he would like to release the information available to him on funding when a majority of the Chamber so requests. I propose to my colleagues and other parties that this request should now be submitted to the Minister on behalf of the entire Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u25	But then... Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u26	There's gonna be an arrangement. I think it would be a good idea to tie it to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u27	Actually, that's what I was gonna suggest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u28	I want to support the request, but I think it would be a good idea to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-4.u29	Fine, yeah. That's where it belongs. I thank the Minister. That brings us to the end of this Question Time.
