ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the General Financial Reviews, first term of office. Before I give the floor to Mr Nijboer, I would like to return briefly to the proposal made by GroenLinks this morning to improve the locational climate. That was handed out to you and to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u2	You have the floor, Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In economically good times, it may be the hardest and most burdensome thing to make a budget, said the Minister of Finance two days after the presentation of the Millions note in an interview in the Volkskrant. In addition to the fact that this may not be entirely right for previous finance ministers, I thought when reading the Millions Note: maybe he has a point, maybe he found it very difficult to make this Million Note. Why? The PvdA would say that if things go well economically, if the budget goes well, if people are more optimistic and have more confidence and if fewer people are unemployed, that the unique opportunity, gives the opportunity to improve and propose necessary things in society. In five major areas, I miss fundamental proposals from the cabinet that make the country better. I would like to call on the cabinet today in these Financial Reviews in line with the General Reviews to seize that opportunity, not to waste that opportunity for the Netherlands. The first issue on which I really miss the cabinet and on which I think there really is a need for the country is the housing shortage. No matter what party you are, whether you are left or right, solutions must be found for the housing shortage in the Netherlands. Whether it's a starter who can't get a house, a tenant who's on the waiting list for a very long time or for whom the towering rent that's being asked is no longer to pay, or an older person who's looking for a suitable home, but who's stuck in a single-family apartment because apartments are too expensive or because he loses his rent allowance, something really has to happen. I see then that instead of investing in more affordable housing, the cabinet cuts one billion on housing corporations. Instead of addressing investors, the red carpet is explained and advertisements are placed in international newspapers to get investors. I ask the Cabinet to respond to the proposal to bring the transfer tax for start-ups to zero, to help them, and to bring it to 10% for investors in third and further homes, so that houses become what they are meant to be, namely to live in and not as investment property to charge sky-high rents for. My third point on the housing market is about various neighbourhoods. They're under pressure. When the market takes over, you get more and more people with a lot of money who are going to live together and on the other hand more and more people with little money who have no home, or who end up in very bad homes. The NOS reported on this from the summer. What answer does the Cabinet have to that? How is that prevented? We don't want banlieues in the Netherlands, do we? Mr. Chairman. The second theme I would like to mention today was also prominent in the news and is directly related to it: The Netherlands now has 320,000 working poor. A debate has just been requested. There is a broader development going on. More and more people have jobs, but are not paid enough. We are talking aboutzzp'ers and people who are sanding and working overtime at minimum wage. The certainty of the existence of people is therefore under pressure. If you look at the broader macro-economics, you can see that VNO has now moved to writing lobby papers to remove the AIQ, the labour income ratio, as a somewhat irrelevant variable. They have for years, really decades said "o, oh, it's getting too high," "wage moderation, wage moderation, wage moderation," "it's going wrong with that economy" and "we're not getting competitive enough." But now that things are going the other way around, we see that in practice; those are the 320,000 working poor, those are thezzp'ers who are not getting a minimum wage, or are uninsured, or are not building a pension, and they write a lobby paper stating that it is irrelevant. But it's relevant. The question to the cabinet is: what is the answer to that? What the hell is the point of taking two measures that make this even worse? The first is that you lose your benefit immediately if you become disabled. That is a very serious measure. It's getting slow. I am referring to that inspection which was also discussed in the General Reviews. If you're sick, you'll get approved sooner. That means no disability benefit. What makes you think you're suggesting that at this time of year? The second measure is that 20 000 jobs in shelter for people who do not get a job so easily will no longer be realized. This measure is linked to a good measure, namely that the minimum wage for people with a distance from the labour market is not reduced. There is a budgetary link, but not a substantive link. I ask the cabinet for the substantive argument. This also costs half a billion, so I can see that this is shifting budget, but what is the substantive, bearing motivation? The antisocial plan not to cut half a billion dollars on those people is being stopped. Hail for that. It should never have been proposed, but it is a good thing that it is stopped. But what is the logic of saying that 20 000 jobs are no longer needed for people who are disabled and who otherwise do not get a job? I didn't find it. Seriously. It's about 20,000 jobs for real people. I come to the third theme. Yesterday, most of my group, including myself, went on a journey through The Hague through the ministries. This journey was about more appreciation for people working in the public sector, less stress and less workload and better pay. I ask the cabinet why it does not meet those wishes in society. We have made a counter-budget together with SP and GroenLinks, in which we allocate EUR 2 billion more than the cabinet. So don't tell me we're doing 6. No, we're doing 2 billion more. Why doesn't the cabinet go along with that? Another major issue with regard to education is equality of opportunity. There is more investment in education. That is a good thing. But what does the Cabinet do about the inequality of opportunity, which is in danger of increasing? The Netherlands is highly educated and well educated, but people who come from a family that is less educated or that is more on the sidelines are more difficult to get there. That is a big problem and also a big threat. That should be at the heart of the cabinet. What proposals does the cabinet make to counter this inequality of opportunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u4	Does Mr Nijboer also believe that part of this inequality of opportunity has to do with the abolition of the basic grant and that it has sometimes made it more difficult for people who come from low-income families to take the step towards higher and scientific education?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u5	I am very concerned with Mr Slootweg if this is the effect of abolishing the basic grant. Studies show that the highly educated continue to study, but that it seems to inhibit the flow of HBOs and MBOs in particular. My colleague, Mr van den Hul, has also really drawn attention to the fact that this is not going well and that you must be prepared to adapt it if this is the effect of the social loan system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u6	If we had 76 seats here, that would undoubtedly have looked different, but one of the measures taken by this cabinet is to take the step of paying only half of tuition fees in the first year. Then I hope to hear a little positive from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u7	Sure, but I also praised the fact that money is being invested in education. What I do not like is that this is partly paid by raising interest rates on those loans. Then you're gonna get yourself a little out of the way in the ditch. I would like to find an alternative cover for the 200 million that is being passed on to students. Mr. Chairman. I come to the third major theme: climate. There has been a lot of talk about this. I have three questions for the cabinet on this issue. First of all, what are the specific objectives for each sector in terms of CO reduction? Secondly, who is going to realize that, what is the timetable and how is that going to happen? It is now known what companies want, namely compensation and money, but the question is also what companies are going to contribute. Does the Cabinet make any arrangements about that? Thirdly, who pays and takes sufficient account of the lowest incomes? We have already seen the first signs this week that the energy tax, which is the same level for everyone, is the hardest in purchasing power of the lowest incomes. That's not how it's supposed to be. We shouldn't have climate poverty. How does the Cabinet ensure that this doesn't happen? The Millions note would have been a good place to consider this and to outline and point out the dilemmas, which are also economic dilemmas. I didn't find it. Mr. Chairman. The fifth thing I would have liked to have seen is how we stand ten years after the financial crisis. The papers were full of them. You will expect me to go through everything, including all the annexes, namely the vision of the Minister of Finance, a new Minister of Finance, what the financial sector looks like and how we make it healthy. I would say that lending every euro 33 times is not healthy. Buffers need to go up. The previous cabinet had taken steps in that direction. We need to reduce that even further, and we need to raise the buffers. This cabinet chooses deregulation. From the 4% leverage ratio we go back to 3%. I would have liked to have seen an answer to the money laundering practices that ING has been involved in, but which are wider in the banking sector. How are we gonna deal with it? What's the Cabinet gonna do about it? How do you make another honest financial sector? Thirdly, culture. The sector goes all the way back to the old boys network. Today, too. A Commissioner from ING, who, I believe, does not even understand his own role, says: ING is supposed to track money laundering. No! They have to stop it. They shouldn't be part of it. That's what we expect from them. That doesn't make sense. That's a commissioner from the bank who just got the highest fine ever. The one who says the politicians are to blame for that. I will not give any further qualifications not to feed it, but I would ask the Minister to address that Commissioner. 'Cause that's really not what was said. That's how things go bad. Then we have the bonus culture that needs to be addressed. In short, a unique opportunity to do something about it. We also have a time when there are opportunities. I refer briefly to the counter-budget presented by the SP, GroenLinks and the PvdA. This shows that you can make fundamentally different choices in these areas. Investing 1.2 billion in homes instead of saving 1 billion. Reduce own risk to ensure access to care for all. And above all, in times when it's plinthing with big business, it doesn't pay 5 billion for that. No dividend tax and no reduction in corporation tax. I also say to Mr Slootweg that we must end the race down from the rates at which the Netherlands is now at the forefront. We also need to ask companies for their fair share. People pay their fair share, but so do companies. It disrupts society if we go along with it and do not continue to do so. That's a big choice the cabinet makes. There's $5 billion in it. It would be wise for the cabinet to accept all the proposals, but at least take some of them into account. I call upon the Cabinet to do so. Mr. Chairman. I come to the budget. I have a number of points to make. I found the most striking in the budget that an amount of 2.9 billion was promised to be spent for useful purposes: general practitioners, district nurses, education, defense, infrastructure, tax administration, and then I have not been exhaustively fulfilled this year. I ask the Minister how that is possible. I also ask him why he did not say, as early as August, that we said in the spring note that we are going to do this; we promised it, and parliamentarians too have made a good deal of investment in all these matters, but we are not making it true. We had that debate in July of this year. How do we ensure that this happens? I really went back years, but it hasn't happened for years that 3 billion of promised expenditure is not being spent. I'm asking the Cabinet to fill this out. It started to live. That's a really big problem, and you can see that. The fund that is earmarked within the landlord's levy for additional investments in shrinking areas but also in social housing in Rotterdam, for example, was exhausted in July. There was 700 million in it, and now it's empty. There is an Asscher/Buma/Segers motion to do something with that. I'd say that's a fun fund, you can fill it up, there's more applications. Use part of that 2.9 billion to fill that fund. Why don't you? Why are you depositing that money into the state debt? The same applies to those MBOs who do not receive a learning/workplace. I refer to the General Reviews. I am pleased that Mr Asscher's motion has been adopted. It's 19 million. That's not such a great amount of money, but why hasn't that been solved? Why are there still targets on the budgets for the next few years when it is full of cash slides on the left and right? The Council of State also points out it. Why wasn't that deployed? Why is there now a reduction in education from 140 million to 160 million above the market? Mr. Chairman. Secondly, I see that this may get worse next year. The Minister promises to spend 21.4% more on Defense next year. That's not gonna happen. Infrastructure: 10.9%. I don't think there's a chance. Where the hell are you gonna get those construction workers? So what do we see next year? Then today the coalition celebrated because there will be extra money for Defence, and there will be extra money for Defence; there will be extra money for infrastructure, and there will be extra money for infrastructure; and then we will be back here next year. Then it turns out it hasn't been spent, it's going to go to the state debt and it hasn't gotten any better for the Defense Department. The tax authorities have been struggling with this for years; we also know what that is. So what are we doing? I believe that if it is promised, it must also be respected. How does the Minister do that? 21% increase in a budget where there is a huge shortage of military personnel, that is not credible. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming on...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u8	...a next theme. But first, Mr Sneller has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u9	Also because Mr Nijboer makes such a big point of feasibility. The Council of State also says, "Watch out, maybe you won't get the money spent because the labour market is cramped." In the counter-budget that Mr Nijboer has now referred to a number of times, he says: we are going to pay an additional 1 billion to attract even more people. What does he base on that could be carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u10	Well, that's an important part of wages. And now let me say that this is something that can be done very quickly. Our second biggest issue is halving our own risk. I can tell you, you can. I've got some implementing stuff, too, but I can do it next year. There's almost $2 billion in it. Mr Sneller is right that this is difficult in a tight labour market, but it is precisely when you reward people properly... The blue book you quoted says what a soldier deserves in the Netherlands. That's really not a big deal, so if you pay those people more decently, more people will become military, teacher or proud elementary school teacher. So that has to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u11	Two different things. One: that soldier gets nothing in Mr Nijboer's counter-budget, zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u12	That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u13	It says it's explicit. It's about education, care, police and social law: zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u14	That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u15	I'd say read it again. The second is that there's a billion specifically labeled for extra people. Where does Mr Nijboer come from if he rightly analyses that there are no such things?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u16	If you look at how many people want to influx into education, as long as you guide that well, because that pot too is not yet sufficiently exploited or want to receive another education... You have to pay for that and try to make it happen. My reproach to the cabinet is that they sit there and don't. I really think, and unlike Mr Sneller, that reward also matters. I really think that people are being bought away by the market if the public sector doesn't have enough to reward them properly. We both do; we pay for both.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr Nijboer takes out the military, which he explicitly excludes in his counter-budget...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u18	That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u19	... but confronts with extra burdens. Next, he writes to the cabinet that there are no construction workers to get, that there are no people to get, and that money is not spent. And then he's got some kind of magic pot from which he gets all kinds of people to carry out his own plans. But he can't point that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u20	I have been a colleague of Angelien Eijsink in the PvdA Group. It wouldn't have occurred to me to exclude the military from wage increases in the public sector. There are undoubtedly examples of care and education, but we have 2 billion....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Even those relationships are not even defined precisely, because there is still room for discussion, as we do in this country. And that's what I stand for. There must be additional people in the public sector, otherwise people will not be helped enough. I appeal to the cabinet that it does not even live up to its own ambitions. I think that we need to invest extra in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u21	Finally, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u22	The concerns of Mr Nijboer and myself are the same. And we, too, stand for extra reward. Only, I'm just reading here: "extra room for wage increases in care, education, police and social attorneys." We are talking about EUR 1 billion more for wages, and even more specifically about the percentages for all of them. And: "1 billion for less workload by creating space to hire more colleagues." And that while his whole argument is that those people aren't there. And the military aren't there. So it's just not true, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u23	No, my argument wasn't that those people aren't there at all. My argument is that the cabinet promised to invest extra in defence; last year, in the General Reviews, in the coalition agreement. My argument is that the cabinet has said that we are going to build all kinds of roads, infrastructure and bicycle facilities for D66, for Stientje van Veldhoven, but that this is not happening. That's what I'm talking to them about. I'm not saying they can't, I'm saying they won't. Those soldiers aren't being hired. At the IRS, it's still not in order, no matter how bad it is there. And it's not easy. I have many debates with this Secretary of State. It's not easy at all, but it's not going to happen. And I'm not okay with that. That's what I'm here to check. I'll give extra money to solve it; you can see that in the counter-budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u24	Mr. Slootweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u25	Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u26	Mrs Leijten, you will have just an interruption after Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u27	I just wanted to correct something. The pass-through simply states that they are the "working conditions of the government," including defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u28	Yeah, so is the SP. We are in complete agreement. I wasn't worried about it, either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mr. Chairman. You understand that I liked to make room for this warm plea from the SP for defense. I think Mr Nijboer is touching on a very important point. I would therefore prefer to see how we can find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u30	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u31	I, too, see that money needs to be pushed through. That's definitely not nice. However, I also think that the solutions that you indicate, when it comes to teachers and people in the care sector, for which I am also allowed to speak, are not so easy. We must also have qualified staff who do this in a good way. What ideas would Mr Nijboer suggest for the qualification, other than "we are paying more wages," so that we can help the discussion a little further?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u32	I think this is a very fair question. You can also do training at the workplace. Unfortunately, there is also under-exhaustment in the Ministry of Education. But of course you can go a lot further. As a government, you can also visit MBOs and HBOs to attract people's interest and to make people internships. These may even be your social internships. You can do something useful there and tie people to you. That is not self-evident in times of tightness. So I am very much in favour of doing more about it and investing more in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u33	Then my follow-up question is: why do you choose so unilaterally for the collective sector alone? 'Cause I don't understand that. I think that is a problem for the private sector. You are actually going to increase the burden there, especially for the middle groups, who are more frequent in it. You make work unattractive for the construction worker and the carpenter, because they pay in a moment the burden increase, which in turn you use to give teachers and nurses a place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u34	This is what I don't agree with. We are doing 5 billion, the 2 billion dividend tax and the 3 billion GDP reduction... We are even increasing the latter, because we believe that companies are making more and more profits and that people are actually under-income. We're not going through the VAT increase. Those construction workers and the other examples you mentioned are fine with that, because they won't pay them anymore. And indeed, we are not doing the government's denim operation: that two-disc system and that raising the top rates. But all that doesn't mean that people have less purchasing power. I'm sorry that the CPB doesn't fully calculate that, but you can see that. You can see that if you halve your own risk, people notice more of it than raising a bank tax by a billion. It's still in there. So I don't agree with you that we're taking money out of people's wallets. On the contrary, we are taxing more, but we are all taxing companies, banks and large assets. I must also be honest about the latter: people over the million are going to pay a billion more taxes. That's what it says. But that's not what the examples you mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u35	Moving on to this subject, because it is true that you are deleting that two-disk system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u36	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u37	And you can now talk very nicely about all these high incomes, but that also concerns the secretary and the construction worker. They just get a different income tax. So that's what you're gonna take with that, too. And you really can't say that that has no impact at all on what those people in the wallet have right now. Why choose only the people in the public sector, not the hard-working people in the market sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u38	I know a lot of hardworking people who don't like the VAT increase. That's a hell of a lot of money, and that's not gonna happen either. And I'm not in favour of lowering the top rate. That's what the Cabinet is proposing. And if we really take a look at the figures, next year, on balance, there will be just an increase of 800 million for people from this cabinet. That's not a big deal for me, but showing off with "burden reduction"... This also makes sense, because people get 1.5% extra purchasing power, while the economy is growing by roughly 2.5%. That's because the cabinet, with the VVD and with the CDA ram-pam-pam! And yet another hold in the people's wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u39	I understand that the PvdA really wants to talk about that top rate. But it is really about the rates below, for which the consequences are greatest. In doing so, you do choose the people in the public sector. You choose only the people in the public sector, not that secretary and that construction worker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u40	No, that's really not true. We do not do the VAT increase and he finances most of it. For example, we are also drawing 1.2 billion from the European Investment Bank, which is not a small beer, so as to reduce the energy bill of the lowest incomes and the middle incomes. And if you see what the cabinet is doing, and this is still small beer compared to what's coming, then it's going exactly the other way. Its own risk is added to that. That's not a burden, but it's an expense. But they do feel people, because they'll pay for it. We're gonna cut them in half, as a first step. And then you'll see that it's much better for the regular, low and middle incomes. And that's what you can expect from left-wing parties. It would be crazy if it wasn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u41	It turned away from its own explanatory notes to the CPB transfer. So I'm gonna go back to the CPB transfer. This concerns the tax measure, which the CPB says: "The Tax Administration provides for considerable implementation problems and an increase in the workload'. What message does Mr Nijboer have about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u42	This is about the box 3 load. We want a tax on real returns. That's what the whole room wants. Last year we proposed taxing the highest income at a progressive tax rate. Of course, you can't introduce that in two months. We had a discussion with the CPB about that. We say, "That's what we've been thinking for a year and a half." If a cabinet has been there for a year and a half and the opposition has wanted it for a year and a half, then we think it is reasonable that you should include it. But the CPB is right to say that if you want it in two months' time, it won't work. But the CPB will honor it. That's this discussion. We technically designed it something else, but that's why it says so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u43	Yes, you cut the border quite a bit compared to last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u44	The border is at 1 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u45	Above €101,000, I read here literally in the CPB bill. Mr Nijboer complains about the problems at the Tax Office and he actually writes here: we give them some extra problems, but fortunately it is not carried out; so it is not so bad. Is that a good summary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u46	No, that's not a good summary. It's just the people with the greatest abilities that matter to us. As a left-wing party, power inequality is a major problem. We want to burden the people with the greatest abilities more. And we want a new system for that, but it was not introduced in January. Everyone understands that. We have now designed this by asking for a very high rate above the million. That is what we want to introduce later into a new system. During the General Political Reviews we indicated six alternatives. The CPB said it could be worked out well. Except you're gonna need a year and a half to two for that. I think it's kind of crazy to ask an opposition party to grow the whole country in two months, while you take two years for it yourself, and you just can't do it all the time, because it's stuck everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u47	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u48	I think it's kind of crazy not to have a message about a higher workload if that's a problem you can see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u49	I've got a lot of eye for that. I have numerous debates with the Secretary of State on the workload at the Tax Office. It would also have helped if D66 had the motion to stop the reorganisation that is going on and to dismiss people from the Tax Administration as long as it is not yet in order of member Nijboer c.s. I would have supported it if I hadn't supported it. That would've made a fool of it. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to Groningen. The cabinet has given more figures, but it always gives a little half information about Groningen. It's about the gas deal that's been made with Shell and Exxon, but it's also about what's going on in the public sector. In spring, 200 million years were spent on the budget. And to the Millions note came the press release "kabinet stabs 100 million extra in Groningen." So I thought, well, that's great; then we already have 300 million and then you get a little on the road. But now it turns out that 200 million in the spring has turned into 100 million. What happened in Groningen on the basis of which the cabinet thought: things are going so well there, we can get another 100 million off? How does that relate to those messages? I would also point out to the Minister that earlier with this Shell and Exxondal it was already pretended that 500 million came from business. That turned out to be 135 million below the line. The Groningers feel bought. And I understand that, if that's how you do it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a few words about economic policy. The Council of State has said something about this. It is also a general discussion on this subject. In offering the Millions note, the Minister said something about the trip to the North Pole and all the thermometers you need with you. I have also looked at the opinions of the Council of State in recent years. The Council of State actually has only one opinion. That's always: more cuts. So I would have found it consistent if they had said: during the crisis a little slow, not too hard and now build buffers. The Council of State has always said: you must do more. So I thought that was a difficult part of that analysis. But there are also economists, such as Coen Teulings, who have been quoted before, who say: you have to do it the other way around, then you might be able to do a little more now. But I would also like to look more closely at the instruments you have as an open economy. We just talked about the expenses. They've been interrupted on that, too. That is difficult to adjust from year to year, as the cabinet showed. But taxes can do much better. The main question is why, in a booming economy, the cabinet chooses to give 5 billion relief to companies that really do not need it. The problem in the Netherlands is not the big business that does not pay off and creates jobs. That's really not the problem. The problem is the dividing lines in society, education, insufficient housing for people, affordable accessible care, a financial sector that is not in order. Why does the cabinet choose to do that in a high-class economy? And how credible is the Minister's point? He keeps saying "build buffers, build buffers," but he does give 5 billion to these multinationals. Protect that credibility and watch over it, Minister. The same goes for the promises, the large expenditures, for next year: more than 20% to Defence and more than 10% to Infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u50	Thank you. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u51	Mr. Chairman. "I come out more gloomy than I've gone in." Mr Slootweg also said it: that is what Minister Hoekstra said last Monday after the monthly meeting of the euro ministers. Italy wants to push the budget deficit towards 2.4% and that with a public debt that you say to and with considerable economic prosperity. This is in stark contrast to the situation in our country. The CBS reported that in the first six months of this year alone the minister had net 11 billion left. If the omens of recent years are not cheating, the revenue for the whole of 2018 for the fourth year in a row is significantly higher than estimated. Why is the Minister still holding on to the initial estimate of a surplus of "only" 5.8 billion for 2018? Mr Caminada, Mr De Kam and Mr Rietveld. Back to Italy, Mr. Chairman. As soon as the news of the Italian Government's budgetary intentions began to pierce, the interest rate on Italian debt rose and that of Germany and the Netherlands fell a little further. So investors are no longer interested in investing in Italian debt unless the risk premium is high enough. It should be borne in mind that the Banca d'Italia has in its balance sheet the ECB buy-back programme and a quarter of the Italian public debt. How does the Minister weigh the risks of this and how can they be controlled? Surely I can hope and assume that the idea of a euro area budget and other forms of risk-sharing and passerby is hidden deep in the fridge? Mr. Chairman. Back to the beginning of the crisis. Mr Nijboer also mentioned it for a while. Back to derailing the American housing and mortgage market, the toxic derivatives and the fall of Lehman. It is precisely when it seems to us that the economic situation is getting worse that it is good to think about it. We, governments, banks, companies, investors and consumers, are now inclined to forget the lessons learned at that time. If I may give one example of this, I would like to point out what is happening on our housing market in the first of the best booms since the crisis. Mr Nijboer has already mentioned it as a problem. We see house price increases of 9% per year and more than double in some cities. The worst thing is that this extreme rise in housing prices in cities is not only a matter of normal scarcity in a high economy, or merely a consequence of demography. It is certainly also a consequence of the fact that houses are increasingly bought not to live in themselves, but to earn. Houses as profit factories for investors. In the three major cities of our country, 20% of the stores are now purchased by investors, and then rent them out expensively. Because of the low supply and the rapid price increases, partly due to this "buy to let" phenomenon, the start-up can also forget about it on the housing market in the big cities. Indeed, the cheap money that is widely available thanks to the ECB is looking for a return. Unlike the savings account, the money in the real estate market is still profitable. Houses in Amsterdam, for example from 60m, which were rented not so long ago for €600 by housing corporations, eventually came into the hands of investors, who divided the house into four rooms each for €600 each. For example, a house like this is worth €2,400 a month, often for someone who knows no harm from the prince. My question to the Minister and Secretary of State is: let's just do this, remembering the credit crisis, the crisis in the housing market and the position of a buy and hire starter? Is this development partly due to the ECB's monetary policy, I ask the Minister. If so, what is the ambition to prevent further social damage that the artificially cheap money can cause? There are, of course, several policy options to put in place. What do the rulers have in mind? For example, how do they view the idea of increasing the transfer tax for second and subsequent houses and bringing it to zero for start-ups? And how do they think about the possibility of broadening the basis for the landlord's tax, with which and passing the tax per home can be reduced. Mr. Chairman. With this point on the housing market, I naturally came to a broader approach to our prosperity than the purely financial one. At the APB, my group chairman already asked the question: is the economy going well, but is our country also doing well? In the Netherlands we have a high quality of life. The level of education is increasing, and so is life expectancy. We see in the Monitor Brede Prosperity that the indicators that are about the here and now are largely green. But if we look at the indicators that are about later and elsewhere, it is clear that we have a good life at the expense of future generations and at the expense of people further away. In addition, we see that our country and politics are struggling to bring about major system changes. A pension system with solidarity between generations is still awaited. We are seeing a fluctuating flexibilisation in the labour market, resulting in a growing number of working poor. Mr Nijboer mentioned it. A far-reaching climate agreement with a steady course of transition doesn't come naturally either. Of all these things, you know that not addressing these problems amounts to shifting problems to the future and sometimes elsewhere. And I haven't even mentioned the rapidly rising debt mountain of young people, the fact that more and more people feel rushed into the rat race of existence or are feeling very lonely. It is a good thing that we are not only looking at how our country is doing in the budget treatment on Princess Day and in the weeks after that, but that we are also doing so on Accountability Day. I would like to see a more systematic reflection with the Prime Minister on the broader objectives of the Cabinet on or around the day of Accountability, explaining the extent to which the previous year's goals were achieved as set out in the mission of the Cabinet and in the Monitor Brede Welvaart. In accountability, we need to look not only at how we deal with our financial capital, but also at how we deal with our natural capital, our human capital and our social capital. The debate on these aspects was really too thin during the last debate on responsibility. How does the Minister of Finance view this idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u52	An impressive story, which I can largely follow. The question about Accountability Day has rightly been asked. I therefore assume that Mr Bruins agrees with my proposal to pay more attention to the indicators of broad prosperity in the Millions Note, as well as to indicate how government policy is going to contribute to improving those indicators. We are already doing a lot on Accountability Day, but it is a problem that we are not doing so much with the Millions Note and the budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u53	I am sympathetic to all the ideas that ensure that, when we look at prosperity in our country, we do so wider than merely monetary, economic and financial. Mr. Chairman. If we look at this narrow monetary approach, we see that in 2019 almost all households will improve their purchasing power. I am not thinking in the least of families in the rush hour of their lives and of households with children who have to do it with one income. At the same time, we know that these static purchasing power figures present an artificial model reality. We all know that for households it is a dynamic purchasing power. We know that our income tax has become unnecessarily complicated, not least due to the annual focus on purchasing power in the second half of August. This year, too, the general tax rebate was pumped up a little further than was envisaged in the coalition agreement in the first quintile. This involuntarily increases marginal pressure further up in the income building. It is true that we have managed to reduce the excessive marginal pressure around the Modal with united forces in the coalition agreement, but it remains high. For the longer term, it seems logical to my group to reduce the tax rebates and the basic rate, which have been pumped up and income-dependent, and to increase purchasing power support through the social security and supplementing system. Is the Minister and Secretary of State open to this thinking, even if it turns out that perhaps in the future there should be a shift between revenue and expenditure frameworks? Mr. Chairman. Finally, three short points and then I will finish. The first point. Together with Mr Slootweg, I would ask you to make haste with the issue of green bonds. There's plenty of college now, I think. Isn't it just time to take this up as Minister of Finance? Moreover, the Christian Union is a step further in its thinking, and I am talking about social impact bonds, which not only see sustainability, but also the pursuit of positive social effects. Banks and municipalities already know them, although strictly speaking it is not in the form of a union, but more in the form of public-private contracts. Does the Minister see an opportunity to extend social impact bonds to the government? What social challenges in the Netherlands lend themselves to an approach with social impact bonds? How does the Minister appreciate this in the light of the right to challenge mentioned in the coalition agreement? The second point of the three: differences and variations in estimates. Mr Sneller has already mentioned it. We see in different places in the national budget that differences in estimates have major consequences elsewhere. For example, we see that we can estimate super-precise apprenticeship numbers in education, but that a percentage small deviation immediately leads to a relatively large deficit in the education budget and forces us to make painful reversals, which we all do not want. In what way could this effect be mitigated in a multiannual perspective, I ask the Minister. The same applies to municipalities and provinces, having regard to the staircase-up and staircase-afsystematiek. Mr Sneller mentioned it. How can we avoid unnecessary volatility in budgets? The third point. We are receiving many reports from our aldermen in the country, who indicate that the deficits in youth aid, in particular, are on the increase. I would like to have a closer look at the scale and causes of these deficits and the impact of the higher levels on the social domain budget in the years to come. Will the Minister, together with his colleagues from VWS, for the Wmo and the Youth Act, and SZW for the Participation Act look at this and inform the Chamber about it? Finally, more than ten years after the start of the credit crisis, I wish both directors a keen eye on what is risky, boldness to tackle what is fragile and untenable, and King Joseph's wisdom in managing and controlling income and expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u54	Thank you. Mr Stoffer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u55	Just before the suspension, I had a brief debate with Mr Slootweg of the CDA on the reduction of donations. I am actually very curious to see how the Christian Union is looking at this 20 million cut in grants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u56	In this context, I think it is right to point out in the first place that people will have more left from next year on. So they get more money net into their bank account and can also give more gifts. The second important point is this. If you want to go to flatter tax rates or to a flat tax, as it was in the SGP election programme... Our two parties want that, because it reduces or even eliminates the gap between one- and two-earners. If you want to go to such a social flat tax, you can't avoid having the rate of your deductions go to that first disc as well. That's part of the flat tax. That is also what the SGP has in its election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u57	That sounds nice. It is a future perspective, but in time we still have a two-stage rocket. If you now earn more than €68,500 and give €1,000 net, then such a church or association or whoever gets such a gift has so far been left with €2,000. In a minute, that'll be $1,600. Suppose people are going to give a little more, then I still think there's going to be a huge gap on the receiving side, with associations, with churches, with so on. This is a very important civil society. So my question is: are you willing to see if there is a piece of repair in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u58	Mr Stoffer is right that we are not yet at a total flat tax. We're going to a two-disk fare, so the difference is getting smaller, but it's not quite flat yet. This must be said: the people who notice this are the 10% richest people in the Netherlands. In fact, most churchgoers in the SGP's supporters do not notice this measure. But more importantly, if I may quote Matthew 6, when giving alms, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing. I do not know what the situation is with the SGP electorate, but I hope that people will give with their hearts and not start to calculate the exact amount of money that they will get back from the Tax Administration. Because giving gifts is what you do with your heart. But I can meet Mr Stoffer. One of the measures in the SGP election programme was to broaden the multiplier for donations. Actually, I'd like to ask the Cabinet what it thinks about that. I therefore put the question here: can the cabinet, knowing Mr Stoffer's concerns, monitor the behavioural effects of this measure and see if measures are needed, such as broadening the multiplier?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u59	Mr Stoffer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u60	Well, this sounds a little bit like music to me. I'm very curious what the cabinet will say about that later. This is better than the CDA's answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u61	I find it very strange that first Matthew is quoted as "you give with your heart and it doesn't matter what you get in return" and then we see if we can arrange something. That is a very important aspect of the agenda, if you ask me. But I have another question. I actually think it is right for the Christian Union to point out the concerns about youth care and its budgets. We know that what is left of the Budgetary Framework Care is precisely that concern. At DOD, we say, if we don't spend it on submarines, shooting equipment or JSF, we'll save that money for the weapons industry. You can also say: we keep that money within the Budget Framework Care for the problems in the municipalities with youth care?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u62	This actually affects the bigger problem of the difference between budget and implementation. From each of the posts for defence, education, municipalities and provinces and also for care, you have to look at whether something is going to happen in the current year or whether it needs to be looked at in a multiannual perspective. Is a certain amount going back in the treasury or not? Are you saving it for that sector or are you saying, "Well, apparently, they can do with less." I think you should take a good look at that for every sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u63	That's a very open answer. At least that's not D66's vague answer. We need to get a good look at it. Now we've known for years that there's been left over at Budgetary Framework Care. That goes to the treasury every time, to pretty useful things, but it wasn't meant for that. We know that there are also shortages within the care. You are concerned about youth aid, youth care. That's exactly the same amount. Well, we can settle that now, can't we? Our budget right is endless, but even within the budgetary rules that you have imposed on yourself, this is now to be settled. I'll give you this outstretched hand. We can just arrange for the 800 million left on the Budget Framework Care to go to the municipalities for good youth support. It would be logical if we promised that to the defence industry, we promised that to the aldermen as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u64	I am always happy with Mrs Leijten's outstretched hands. At the same time, I have to say here that the increase in healthcare costs in our country is actually the biggest problem. They rise by 2.5 billion a year. I have also talked about the sustainability of finances and that this cabinet is working very hard on the structural budget and the sustainability of public finances. You have to keep a good hand on the rise in the cost of care. You have to make sure they don't get out of line with what we can still wear in this country. At the same time, I fully agree with Mrs Leijten that the particular concern she has in the areas we have just mentioned is also a concern of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u65	For a debate on the rise in healthcare costs, Mr Bruins can wake me up at night. I can thus point him to 5 to 6 billion where we can cut the healthcare budget without pain for patients or an account for patients. No problem at all. Do something about the market. It costs an awful lot of money. But we are not having that debate right now. I am happy to engage in that debate; we can certainly do that. Then we'll make the next Financial Reviews "Financial Health Reviews." I'd love to! But my question was, of course, about the following. You're estimating an amount of care. You say to everyone: that's what you pay for healthcare, directly or indirectly. And then there's money left, for years, and that money is spent on other things. Then according to the system, it wouldn't be possible for that money to go to health care?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u66	Yes. And what's your point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u67	Well, you can. I am glad that the Christian Union does see that opening where D66 pretends it isn't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u68	Mr. Azarkan and Mr. Van Raan, which one of you was first? Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just heard Mr Bruins say that the 2.5 billion increase in healthcare costs is the biggest problem and the biggest challenge for our society. Well, you could solve that by not giving away the dividend tax. You've come a long way with that. But my question is about King Joseph, in this case King Eppo. Is he satisfied with this cabinet's willingness to save? Is there enough savings for the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u70	That is a very important and interesting question. Is there enough savings? That question isn't even that easy to answer. We have seen how big the blow was that the economy took in 2008 and 2009. In view of this economic blow, I can only commend the Minister for Finance for having managed to create a budget that will invest both 6 billion more in the public sector and enough money to create a budget surplus that will further reduce our public debt. It is still necessary to balance that well, because the danger is still enormous that the public debt will rise again in the next crisis, if our GDP falls again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u71	That is a nuanced answer; I am no different from Mr Bruins. I'm gonna ask you something else. If King Eppo were to be allowed to rule and he was to take on this budget, would he spend so much on dividend taxation and on reducing the burden on companies at a time when that is simply not necessary at all? Or he'd have made other choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u72	What the Christian Union thinks about abolishing the dividend tax is well known. It has even led to new vocabulary in parliament, and even beyond. But the balance that this cabinet finds between additional investment in the public sector, lowering the burden on citizens compared to the basic path of the previous cabinet, and lowering corporate tax, that balance is a very sensible one. This touches well on the wise lessons we can learn from the story of King Joseph.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u73	I'm closing up, Mr. Chairman. I suspect King Joseph had spared a little more, Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u74	The grain barns were full, and we haven't filled them yet. So in that sense, Mr Azarkan is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u75	I have a quick question. We were just talking about right and left hands, and whether there is knowledge between them. I would like to ask a question about Mr Bruins' left and right hemisphere. He ended his speech very nicely. He said we have to protect what's vulnerable and we also have to look at how things are untenable. I was wondering if Mr Bruins would agree with me that this applies to the Dutch economy. This is demonstrated by the concept of "vulnerable prosperity" and by the book The Vulnerable Prosperity of the Netherlands. In 1960 it was tilting point and from that moment on it went wrong. From that moment on, it's also untenable. Does Mr Bruins agree with the Animal Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u76	Yeah, I can go with a lot of it. Even when you consider the Netherlands as an island for a moment, you can see that we go through our land use and our raw materials, which we hardly have. The gas in Groningen is coming to an end. We have to import a lot to make ends meet. These imports also include rare earth metals from countries where you wouldn't even want to import from. In order to maintain prosperity in the Netherlands at this level, we really enter, abroad and in relation to future generations. I think Mr Van Raan and I will find each other all over there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u77	One of the faith fallen down reformed with two left hands................................................................................................... I'm trying anyway. I felt that Mr Bruins offered many openings to make the government's policy even better, for example in the housing market. I also talked about the investors who took over and the starters who didn't get opportunities. That is where I am looking for the answer. But I would also like to ask him about the motion tabled by his group chairman, my group chairman and Mr Buma at the General Political Reviews. Is he willing to look for space to find cover for that as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u78	Of course, we should hang out anyway. It's good for this country to find each other on common ground. The point I wanted to emphasise in my speech was: what is the relationship between the ECB's monetary enlargement policy and that buy-to-let phenomenon that we see in the big cities? I ask the cabinet: what is this relationship? Do we know that relationship? Can we make it visible? And is that buy-to-let phenomenon really bad? I am very critical of this, as Mr Nijboer has pointed out, but I am also curious as to what the cabinet actually thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u79	Yeah, I heard that, and I support that, so we'll find out what the cabinet's coming up with. Together, our parties have tabled a motion on social housing, both in large cities and in shrinking areas. That fund is empty, and we really need to do so, because there are a lot of municipalities that still want to build social housing. Is Mr Bruins prepared to take cover for this in, for example, the 2.9 billion that is not being spent but would be spent?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u80	I am certainly prepared, together with Mr Nijboer, to look into the puppets of our finance minister's eyes, but I will leave him with the initiative to find good cover if there are any possibilities here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u81	Thank you, Mr Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are also discussing a billion dollar note, and the Millions note is small beer in a coalition that cannot agree on even a climate agreement, which would never have to be a problem for the self-appointed 'greenest cabinet'. The billion-dollar note I'm referring to is the one with which we can't keep global warming below 1.5°C. Mr Sneller also referred to it. To put it in the words of the Stanford scientists who did the research: "If we manage to keep the warming below 1.5°C, we have an advantage of 30,000 billion euros worldwide." Such a message also gave Mr Nijpels and the PBL last Friday, namely that the broad welfare benefits of the climate transition outweigh the material costs. And that's how we need to look. You cannot simply conclude free trade agreements, pretend that the world of unlimited possibilities is linked to unlimited economic growth, which is tied to CO, and at the same time let God's water run over God's field in terms of climate change. We simply cannot build up an even greater ecological debt, which literally threatens to become breathtaking. Mr. Chairman. In his contribution to the Millions Note, the Minister made an appealing argument about the differences between South Pole travellers Scott and Amundsen, about the good preparations Amundsen made, the wisdom he gained to listen to local experts, the science he involved in his preparation and which led to success versus Scott's probably most cost-effective approach, which led to a tragedy. That was an inspiring story, especially because it showed so well that short-term thinking was not smart at the time and has now become untenable. Amundsen's approach took enormous account of the consequences for the return journey and the local conditions at the South Pole. In short, the broad sense of prosperity as we now apply in the Chamber would have appealed to Amundsen tremendously. I'll take that thesis. That broad-welfare concept should also be guiding these General Financial Reviews. For as long as we pretend that cutting forests, burning biomass, fermenting manure and the annual slaughter of 630 million animals contributes to our prosperity, we show the Netherlands at its narrowest. Actually, we'll be in Scott's camp. In its comments on the Millions Note, the Council of State also recommends that we use the concept of broad prosperity forward-looking and consider the envisaged long-term policy in terms of conditionality. Mr. Chairman. Of course, on the one hand, we are very pleased that the cabinet is saying that it supports this response. But the devil is still in the details. If the cabinet literally writes that it is willing to give in the Millions Note an annual forward-looking reflection of policies that can contribute to a better Netherlands for future generations, then that is strictly what the cabinet has been doing for years, and nothing more. That is not enough, that is not in terms of broad prosperity, and that is not what the Council of State has written. It's gonna take more than that. This is a new form of policy, of assessment, of development. It's actually a journey of discovery, and so a very exciting one. Actually, that's Amundsen in 1910 who had just started his preparations, with the return journey in mind. So let's get to work, because if there is something that the Monitor Brede Prosperity has made clear, it is that this navel star economy is not sustainable. Our blind eye to economic growth creates a consumer economy that requires three and a half globes, the VVD has also known since today. We are pleased that we can share that knowledge. The place at number 5 on the ranking of European economies can only be maintained by addressing the potential of future generations. And, of course, on the livelihoods of people in poor countries, who are driven by masse when their lives become impossible, in any sense. Earth Overshoot Day is not a nice communication concept, but a harsh reality that Dutch politics largely ignores. A step towards the change that is literally vital is the greening of our tax system. That's what the Secretary of State is doing. Polluters no longer subsidise, but make them pay for their behavior. It can and should not be that way. I always like to say that, Mr President. It can and should not be the case that someone who fills a Fiat Panda pays more excise duty than someone who fills a Boeing 747. Many fiscal greening measures have been proposed, but the sacred cow of the meat lobby has so far proved to be indisputable. However, today we want to propose an idea that contributes to broad prosperity, that respects the liberal polluter pays principle, that gives the stewardship content, that spares the consumer, I am looking at the VVD, which we can use in the further development of a healthy lifestyle, an animal-friendly society, the care of nature, a stable climate and the calling for a halt to the depletion of earth. In the United Kingdom, we have seen a surprisingly effective result of a producer tax on sugar and soft drinks. It turned out to be successful this year, even before the tax was actually introduced. Producers anticipated the tax by replacing sugar in their drinks with healthy alternatives. The consumer didn't notice much of it at the end of the day. That is why we want to present a new idea to you today. But before I do that, I'm gonna name the necessity again. Meat is by far the most polluting part of our menu. The Planning Office for the Environment stresses this in the recently published report Balance of the Living Environment. I quote: only a shift towards a diet with more plant proteins will make the overall food problem sustainable in the long term. Mr. Chairman. Today, we are proposing a slaughter tax for producers who are burdening exactly what makes our food system untenable. So instead of a meat tax for consumers, we want a slaughter tax for producers. And we raise these early in the chain at slaughterhouses, that's about 240. This could make it practically feasible at this point. By raising the tax early in the chain, it is up to producers to what extent they wish to transfer that tax on consumers. The market could determine it, you might say. At the same time, it provides an incentive for producers to reduce the use of meat. The large food producers will look unnoticed at other ingredients for soup, pizza, sauce sandwiches and so on. Mr. Chairman. With the introduction of a slaughter tax as an example of a specific fiscal greening, several goals are achieved that contribute to the broad prosperity. The polluter is really going to pay and the desired behavior change becomes immediately visible. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I will return to the explorers Amundsen and Scott. Apart from the argument that perhaps since then you could have left the South Pole alone, it is logical and also commendable that the Minister is in favour of Amundsen's thoughtful approach. And it would be all the more tragic if this Amundsen admirer appeared to be in Scott's camp with the Secretary of State? But for your consideration, President: Amundsen was also able to radically change the helm. He wanted to go to the North Pole first. He wanted to go to the North Pole first; a completely different direction. And when the North Pole was reached before it left, it drastically changed its course. And that is something we can also recommend to the Minister and the Secretary of State. If, in the words of the Prime Minister, a bizarre plan such as the abolition of the dividend tax is seen as a passable route, and almost no one else sees it that way, then there is an excellent opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u83	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u84	Mr. Chairman. After the somewhat chaotic first day of the General Political Reviews we are now faced with the first day of the General Financial Reviews. Previously, the General Political Reviews and the General Financial Reviews were held simultaneously under the flag of General Political and Financial Reviews. They had a heavy stature and were only held three weeks after Prince's Day. First, the Chamber listened to the country: trade unions, employers, farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises, you name it. They were all welcomed and they held their press conferences in Nieuwspoort. I've been through it all. So the country, the citizen, felt heard, taken seriously. Afterwards, the House of Representatives came to the cabinet with its contribution. Now it seems that politics The Hague is not at all interested in the opinions outside The Hague. Now, after Prince's Day, we immediately continue the next day, and we have seen how that can sometimes happen. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS is not necessarily conservative, but we sometimes look back with melancholy, and I do so today on this subject. Now it's solo performance by the prime minister. The Minister of Finance is allowed to watch and listen in. All alone, Prime Minister Rutte can defend the abolition of the dividend tax, as a super-Minister of Finance: his toy, his mission. The General Financial Reviews are now far in the shadows; look at the almost empty public gallery; but fortunately you are there, I say to the people present and have become a subordinate debate. I'll say it with regret. The great political game has been played and Rutte has made skillfully and conveniently no promises, except for two very small ones. Politically speaking, there appears to be no financial room for manoeuvre, particularly for the opposition. This brings me to a democratic and constitutional aspect, which I would like to mention as the democratic deficit. Under the Rutte III cabinet, and also under II, we are practically dealing with a presidential system with a Second Chamber as a polling station and the First Chamber to a lesser extent, at least, until the elections next year. Monism is celebrating more and more. The 76 engine block is hermetically shielding all potential openings. The House of Representatives can debate what it wants, but is included in important legislative proposals for bacon and beans, as is also feared by the 2019 Tax Plan. Mr President, it is even more worrying. During the long debate on the abolition of the Hillen Act at night in November, I pointed out that our country has been governed by the troika of three institutions for a long time and more. These are: the Ministry of Finance, De Nederlandsche Bank and the Central Planning Bureau. They define the broad lines of the policy. Especially the interplay within the troika, what is happening behind the scenes, is extremely interesting, if it were not so undemocratic. Cabinet policy is very much based on the pillars of this troika. When they come up with plans separately, the cabinet takes them very seriously. If they do it all together, it's only a matter of time. Mr President, I would like to give two examples. The new Pension Act of 2005 was a wonderful example. As a thief in the night, at a late point in the calculation of pension liabilities, the fixed interest rate of 4% was abolished and replaced by, what was called, the market valuation. The Dutch Bank then stipulated that this valuation should be based on the present value on the basis of the risk-free interest rate. Why? Because otherwise the ABP threatened to cut short. At that time the market rate was more than 5%, so the coverage rate of the ABP flew up and were discounts off the table. Of course, the whole pension sector loved it, but I can assure you that the whole sector has long regretted it as hairs on their heads. With the risk-free interest rate, the now infamous calculation rate, they have brought in a Trojan horse. Our proud pension system transformed in a few years from confidence anchor into playball of the financial markets. Everything we did in retirement country until 2005 is today nothing more than a distant history. The troika and then a majority of the Chamber have declared the rate of calculation, the r-word, that it must not change and never change. I'll get back to you in a minute. The ten-year agony of pension agreements is also a wonderful example. The social partners wanted to shape that, but Finance and De Nederlandsche Bank were in charge with constant veto's. In 2013, they blocked the real system in a late stage of the legislative proposal drawn up on the basis of the preliminary draft ambition agreement. And what happened last week? In response to questions from 50PLUS in May and June last week, Minister Koolmees came as a thunderstorm in the clear sky with an unreadable letter about the calculation rate. This interest rate remains cast in concrete, even if the pillars under the pension building are adjusted with softer claims. Koolmeen referred to a letter from Knot. That letter from Knot puts a bomb under the negotiations for a pension agreement. By the way, Minister Koolmees left Knot's letter on his desk for eight days. We got him last Thursday. But why is Klaas Knot's letter of bomb so explosive for the negotiations on a pension agreement? My phone was red-hot before the letter had entered the Chamber properly. That really wouldn't happen if it had been a hollow letter just repeating what we already knew. Klaas Knot refers in this letter to the earlier position of De Nederlandsche Bank that if the security disappears from the Pension Act, the calculation rate can be increased. In May of this year, during a discussion with the Finance Committee with Klaas Knot and Laura van Geest, I asked Knot whether it is correct that if the certainty in the agreements expires, the calculation rate can be raised. This was the result of the draft pension agreement which had just been leaked, in which the claims were reduced because the security would lapse. He replied to me as follows: "The choice of the interest rate is simply a derivative of the way in which the commitments are made. If you ask me to confirm that law, Mr. Van Rooijen, I will." Well, apparently there has been a conflict within the management of De Nederlandsche Bank. Mrs Van Vollenhoven, also member of the Executive Board of De Nederlandsche Bank and responsible for pensions, said in March: "A less firm commitment is another route. This could mean that there is a higher rate of calculation." I wonder if this conflict has now been resolved within the Executive Board of De Nederlandsche Bank. That is also what I meant when I suggested at the beginning of my speech that what is happening behind the scenes is very interesting, but that it has little to do with democracy. I ask the Minister of Finance whether there is a deliberate one-two between President Knot and D66 Minister Koolmees. I also ask him whether that bomb has been deliberately planted to ensure, by means of a power-political detour, that the government agreement on individual jars is still being implemented, despite the fact that the social partners, who are only talking about it, are mordicus against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u85	Mr Baudet has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u86	I actually wanted to say amen, because I very much agree with what Mr Van Rooijen has to say about systemic criticism. This is also entirely in line with what the Forum for Democracy wanted to say in the General Reviews. It is true: the Chamber is being sidelined by those coalition agreements. It is monism that beats the clock, and that is very incompatible with our democratic principles. So keep up the good work! I'm with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u87	An encouragement, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u88	Of which act, with some joy, unhidden joy. Mr. Chairman. Following Mr Knot's letter of bomb, the five large sector pension funds responded today. They say: 'It is disappointing that President Knot and Minister Koolmees stick to risk-free interest rates, even if there are softer rights and obligations'. They were counting on being able to avoid discounts in the case of a pension contract with softer rights. As you know, I have previously tabled an initiative proposal to avoid these discounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u89	Before you proceed, Mr Azarkan has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u90	We have spoken quite a few times here about calculation rates and pensions. The analysis is clear. In that sense, of course, it is a fantastic college of a esteemed member of the Chamber, but I have the feeling that we agree with each other. Over the last eight years, actually in the crisis, we have seen that pension funds have gone from 700 billion to 1,400 billion. There's been a doubling. Those dagobertduck warehouses are full of money, but we complain we're so poor. People aren't getting anything. I would like to ask Mr Van Rooijen: are you going to go a step further for 40 years now? You have been working in politics for 40 years now. What makes you think that politicians, perhaps even the cabinet and the Dutch who are going to do this, do not want this? Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u91	I could give a whole lecture on that, but I won't do that, not even in a nightly debate or something. You don't have to be afraid of that. I also see clearly in the reaction of Mr Baudet and Mr Azarkan that they wonder with amazement why we have been burdened with risk-free interest since 2005, when no one in Europe knows it. Last week, we had a debate on pension funds going from the Netherlands to Belgium because we charge 1% for pensioners and 3.5% for Belgium. So they're just gonna go. You might want to stop that, but we would also like to do so, but you do not do so by using the Dutch interest rate. You do that because you know the Belgian interest rate, because then they don't have to leave. I told you, we had the "H" word; we now have the "R" word. There will be nothing to do about this interest rate. The bewilderment that has been happening in the pension world since Thursday last week today was the big thing in the newspapers: The FD, Pension Pro is that one is not only disappointed, but also doesn't understand because De Nederlandsche Bank makes a total turn. Actually, De Nederlandsche Bank now says: even if there are softer rights, you still have to use the risk-free interest rate. In the past, while DNB also mentioned this recently, Mrs Van Vollenhoven said: if there are softer rights, then the calculation rate can rise. So the funds are actually blazing, but they're neat, sad and disappointed today. They're counting on softer rights to raise the rate of calculation, so that, as Borgdorff says today, they can avoid the discounts for millions of people next year. This policy, this cabinet and the Chamber say that there will be discounts as long as Draghi turns on those buttons and the interest rate simply remains 1% to 1.5%. The coalition did not even respond to my long speech in the first term in the defence of my initiative proposal in the second term. The coalition simply said 'we are giving an explanation of vote here: we are simply voting against'. In February, I will see what they are going to do, whether they dare to vote against my own initiative proposal. I'm gonna want to see that again. They won't dare anymore. Otherwise, they'll come up with a proposal themselves. Then they steal my proposal and submit it under a different name, and then those discounts are avoided. Because there will be elections in March.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u92	Hallelujah! Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u93	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. Mr Azarkan is satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u94	Finally, I would like to add the following about De Nederlandsche Bank, which is even worse. I have regular contact with Mr Knot. Those contacts are confidential, so I'm not gonna say anything about that here. Moreover, Mr Knot's letter is very complicated; you have to read it 80 times and then nobody understands it. It's actually a political letter. He says at the end that it also states that it allows risk-free interest only for the premium scheme available. But that's just an investment product. It has nothing to do with a collective contract. It's an individual retirement pot. You invest it and you'll see what you can get out of it. Van Popta has also said today that the letter of bombs from Knot Hoekstra and the Secretary of State are now making excuses; I hope they will listen if they are to put a bomb under the pension agreement and not bring a pension agreement any closer. And now he comes: it is also in conflict, says Van Popta, with what De Nederlandsche Bank has said so far and, much worse, what is common in Europe. We talked about that last week. We are the Chinese in Europe. We are doing something with interest rates that does not happen all over Europe and which does not need to be covered by European legislation on pensions. There are minimum rules, but we are going to sit on the lowest floor, which will cut down 5 to 10 million people next year, unless my initiative is taken over. I may come up with another initiative if mine is rejected. I've got a second one in the inside pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u95	You go into the pension questions very deeply, but it is sometimes also clear to mention who Mr Van Popta and Mr Borgdorff are. There are also viewers in the gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u96	That's a good point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u97	That's a very good point. These are the five occupational pension funds: ABP, Care and Welfare, the large metal, the small metal and pension fund construction. Mr Van Popta is of the pension fund metal. Thank you for this supplement. I've been talking for so long. Sometimes I skip something. Thanks for the addition. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the dividend tax; that won't surprise me. Last year, when the government agreement was presented, it appeared that the negotiating parties had agreed to abolish the dividend tax. Since then, it has become clear that this measure is not exactly the most popular tax reduction that a cabinet could come up with, I say with a certain feeling of understatement. The basic arguments were found to be weak and the way in which the decision was made is shady. No electoral programme has mentioned any wish or intention to abolish the dividend tax. Even in the extensive CPB transfers of the programs, the ideal time to show a controversial tax measure in the right context, it has not been given a place. However, we have learned much more about the influence of multinationals on our political decision-making. It has been perfectly right that the Chamber has been attacking this cabinet since the presentation of the coalition agreement when it comes to this measure. We're anything but done with it. Last year, to my great regret, the House of Representatives approved the abolition of the Hills Act. That was the second most controversial measure in this cabinet's plans. Together with an almost fully united opposition, 50PLUS was able to prevent the abolition of the Hills Act from remaining in the Tax Plan. It was finally treated as a separate legislative act in line with Senator Hoekstra's motion adopted unanimously in the First Chamber. That wasn't a far-fetched political trick of mine back then. The separate treatment of separate legislative proposals is the tradition of recent decades. It enables both the Second and the First Chamber to make a careful and separate political judgement on independent legislative proposals and, then, to vote on them separately in this Chamber and across the street. Let us be honest, if the abolition of the Hillen Act deserves a separate legislative proposal, Minister Hoekstra deserves a praise for having done so at my request on his first day in the Council of Ministers, then the dividend tax certainly deserves it. There is a lot on the fiscal programme for 2019: the introduction of the so-called flat tax, it is not real, the increase and gradual reduction of the old discount, the measures against tax avoidance, the reduction of the profit tax, and also the abolition of the dividend tax. The linking of the abolition of dividend taxation to other measures for business is highly undesirable and in conflict with the tradition mentioned above. I don't think that's pure coffee, but it's happening anyway. We shall of course come back to this in detail in the debate on the tax plans in November, but now the political part of it. For it is purely political if all the previous debates with Rutte have shown that he is empty-handed with the butter, let me say, butter-soft support with just a few gray arguments. First of all, I would like to point out that this is an extremely controversial proposal with a very great budgetary importance. For this reason alone, we need to debate it separately, but above all we need to be able to vote on it. I give two arguments. The cabinet gives the impression that there is an independent proposal because the Tax Plan consists of seven separate legislative proposals and the dividend tax proposal is not part of the main bill, the reduction of income tax. If it had been in there, I would have said it was all bar and angry. That's how clever the cabinet has been. The proposal to abolish the dividend tax is nevertheless part of a very large package of no less than 12 proposals of a very different nature, with the title "source taxes 2020" more often not covering or covering the load. The package contains a major tax reduction in corporate tax. 50PLUS does not want to do so, even in our counter-budget, but a majority in both Chambers will want to vote for it. Second, the package also includes the introduction of a withholding tax on dividends, interest and royalties for abuse situations, which should start in 2021. My safe assessment is that a large majority, including 50PLUS, will support this proposal. This is an approach to tax avoidance. That's what the whole of the Netherlands wants! But I can only agree to this as a Member of Parliament if I also vote in favour of abolishing the dividend tax. That is, to use another expression, an incredible trick! I urge the Minister to put forward a separate proposal on the abolition of only the existing 15% dividend tax. As I said, there is a precedent. At the request of 50PLUS last year, Minister Hoekstra removed the abolition of the Hills Act from the Supplementary Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u98	Mr Baudet has a question. Oh, his point's already been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u99	Two souls one thought, Chairman. Yeah, watch out. Mr. Chairman. Last week, all the opposition group chairmen signed the Krol motion asking the government to table this separate legislative proposal as well. The motion is still hanging over the market, be aware, in addition to Mrs Leijten's amendment and me, that the dividend tax should not be abolished. For the sake of clarity, even in the case of a separate legislative proposal, both chambers can still vote in favour of abolishing the dividend tax. So what's to stop the cabinet from just playing the game like a gentleman and a democrat? Mr. Chairman. The State of the Tax Administration is the second major issue. Minister Hoekstra said at the beginning of the debate on the Spring Note.... we all remember that he had jumped out of his skin when he, the day before, heard that there were new problems with the collection of the inheritance and gift tax. By the way: we fell off our chair as well. The Tax Administration is under the State Secretary, but the Minister is responsible for the State Secretary and therefore also for the Tax Administration. It is therefore only natural that the Minister should be involved when matters are derailed from the Tax Office, not only in order to be fully informed, but also to intervene. Normally that happens together with the Secretary of State, which was also happy at the time. Of course. Previously, the Tax Administration had already been put under curately by the Ministry, although I do not have the impression that this has already produced much visible results. Minister and Secretary of State may be on top of it together, but were the ministers and secretaries of state actually on top of it in the past, or were they wrong before? It raises the question of why half-hearted solutions and words still seem to determine the rhythm. 50PLUS has previously pleaded here he comes again for a second, separate Secretary of State for the Tax Administration. Then one Secretary of State is responsible for tax legislation and one for the Tax Administration. We have also tabled a motion on this. He's been apprehended. For the record, my group has confidence in Secretary of State Snel. But you can't keep doing it to him that, in addition to the gigantic tax bill mandate of the coming years, he is also responsible for creating a big turn, a turning point, at the Tax Office? The Chamber certainly expects at least that big turn, and not just damage control. If, in the case of a fiscal tax as insignificant as the inheritance and gift tax, which produces 1.5 billion, the problems have already grown above the head of the Secretary of State within a year, then that is fearful of the implementation of the large taxes which together amount to nearly 300 billion. In my view, we are taking unacceptable risks here, and if my fear were to come out, the disaster would be inconceivable - not for the treasury, but not for the citizens either. The abolition of inheritance and gift tax was already included in the 50PLUS electoral programme last year. The Chamber has now had to debate forever about relatively small beer and the Secretary of State has to keep away from his many other heavy tasks which are much more important for the country in the long term. A proper execution by the Tax Administration is a matter for the entire cabinet. All the ministers who spend net money, and they do so all but one, can stay home soon if this cow is not properly taken by the horns. Nor can I escape the impression that our Prime Minister does not care very much about this explosive dossier. Rutte has been ultimately responsible for the demise of the Tax Administration for seven years. And that's more than an abstract responsibility. His cabinets I, II and III excel in tax discrimination and trickery. Never in history so much money went to deductions, discounts, exemptions and other tax expenditure. I will not fail to continue to address the Prime Minister personally about the state of affairs in the Tax Administration. The Secretary of State has laid down an ambitious plan for this, he is to be praised for getting the Tax Administration back on track after it has completely derailed under his predecessor Wiebes. In retrospect, this predecessor was so intense and passionate about the never introduced tax reform that he gave too little priority to the modernisation of the Tax Administration. I'm not just yelling. I mention only the destructive report of the Borstlap Committee and the dramatic departure scheme which Secretary of State Wiebes was not even aware of. Grotesque is equally that this failed Secretary of State could be promoted to minister by Prime Minister Rutte's VVD friends. Anything left behind by this minister will cost money in one way or another, usually much more than previously thought. He treated the IRS like an orphan. Had the Chamber sent Wiebes away if the Chamber had received the Borstlap report a year earlier? Asking the question is answering him. Now he's steering the climate policy. The approach to this policy is already controversial from day one. Please note: the approach to this climate policy. Wiebes left a mess at the IRS. He couldn't handle the zzp file; it turned into a tax no-man's-land. For climate policy, I hold my heart. This too is in the wrong hands. That can never end well with a chaoot behind the wheel. A cabinet crisis in one year? That seems to me to be a real assessment. You may ask: what does 50PLUS see as a solution? Well, there are no ready-made solutions. But there is a commitment that demands and radiates urgency. The stakes are missing now. I therefore continue to plead for a second Secretary of State for Finance. If it remains really unspeakable, then I also have another proposal in store: a government Commissioner for the Tax Administration, following the example of the Delta Commissioner. And again, that is not a lack of trust in the current Secretary of State. It is to indicate that the urgency is so great that it has to happen one or the other. I insist that the Minister discuss my proposal in detail. I don't settle for a few generalities and death-doers. I remember the Minister's rejection of the motion on the second Secretary of State for Finance:'so, that saves two more fte'. Not very chic. Mr President, the purchasing power and the pictures. There's a pattern. The cabinet steers on expectations that it then fails to deliver. This applies not only to pensioners, but to everyone. Now, just like last year, it is the higher than expected inflation that undermines purchasing power. That could have been taken into account, because that trend is international. But no, they just let it happen again. Last year, the projected increase in purchasing power of 0.7% was -0.3%. This year, the predicted growth of 0.7% has already been converted to -0.7%. Even Prime Minister Rutte thought that was a little too grievous, and that is why he is now coming up with a few lean additional measures. The expectations that are now being raised are again slightly optimistic. We don't have much faith in it anymore. Managing sweet and acid is especially good for millionaires and large companies under Rutte. Moreover, the rising inflation trend can continue for a while, and then all citizens are constantly catching up with the facts. The economy grows by 10% in a few years, but with purchasing power, this cabinet remains only messing around behind the comma, making any progress disappear with every sigh of inflation. We therefore believe that additional compensation for the VAT increase is absolutely necessary. We shall come back to that, of course. This brings me to another aspect of this overly explosive subject: the purchasing power plates and the confusion about them. It's almost impenetrable chaos over and over again. The citizen doesn't understand. The figures of various institutions sometimes seem to contradict each other, quite apart from the fact that the purchasing power for a given year is estimated more than three times before there is a final figure, and that is what it is all about. The media is not helping either, because the successive estimates are becoming less and less attentive and the final figure is often not interested in dogs anymore. But that's what it's all about in the end! That's weird. I see it happening again this year: all attention is paid to the purchasing power estimates, the purchasing power forecasts for 2019. And I predict: they do not come true, because of the uncertain, but certainly rising, inflation, partly because of VAT. But the collapse of the 2018 estimate would rather not be seen. I pointed this out this morning when interrupting: it is a big minus for this year. Luckily, I don't have to get all my information out of the paper. It is striking, for example, that the new presentation of the CPB shows very clearly for the first time that half, i.e. 50%, of pensioners are not making any progress in the August estimate for 2018, i.e. this year. So half of them aren't getting any better, despite all of Rutte's fairy tales. Eighty-six per cent of the workforce is making progress. Moreover, the CBS has shown that even in a year with a significant increase in purchasing power, a third of the total number of people may be affected by a decrease in purchasing power. According to 50PLUS, the reality of purchasing power development is better reflected by the Nibud. This is clearly stated in the 2018-2019 purchasing power calculations note. I know that these are not figures to read for this now, but it is clear that there are great differences. An example. The Nibud says: a couple with AOW and a supplementary pension of €15,000 and €10,000 will only improve 0.2%. That's €5 per month! You're improving 0.2%. What does the Cabinet say? A married couple with AOW and a supplementary pension of €30,000 together will improve about the same pension. The Nibud says 0.2%, the cabinet says 2.8%. No one understands this and somewhere this is not right at all. What do you think of this if you belong to this group of pensioners? It's two completely different outcomes. It leads to disinterest, but also to distrust of the public towards the government. This is not least the case with the elderly and pensioners, who, as Peter Hein van Mulligen of the CBS put it, are no longer able to do anything to supplement their income. We really need to do this much better so that ordinary citizens, our voters, young and old, can understand what we are all doing. Mr. Chairman. The cornerstone of the purchasing power policy of 50PLUS is to increase the minimum wage, the AOW benefit and all welfare benefits. We want to increase it by 3%, on top of normal indexing. Since 2008, the elderly have been disproportionately the child of the account. And that trend continued in 2017 and 2018. The main reason for this is, of course, the non-indexation of the supplementary pension from 2008. Of this, I said that it is a kind of natural phenomenon in Dutch politics not to talk about the r-word. I'm not going to repeat any of that, but I'll get back to you. Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the eurozone, the Brexit and Italy. Over the past year, I have spoken several times about the worrying situation in the euro area. Italy's Brexit and public finances hang over us like a sword of Damocles. I am no longer concerned about another sovereign European Member State. I do not have the political desire to impose on Italy or any Member State what they should or should not do. But there are rules of the game. Once there was a no-bail-out clause. It was reassuring, because we could assume that if other countries made mistakes, they would have to sit on the blisters themselves. Those days are over. This is the time of whatever it takes of the European Central Bank. Certainly it seems that this famous statement by Mario Draghi, an Italian, will be put to the test quickly and perhaps already next year. The rest is speculation, but 50PLUS is deeply concerned. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the counter-budget of 50PLUS. This year, 50PLUS presented its own counter-budget with concrete proposals to amend the Rutte III cabinet budget on crucial points. Our counter-budget has been passed on by the Central Planning Bureau. We have eight top priorities: The AOW age in 2019 freezes at 66 years and reduces to 65 years in '20. In 1919, for implementing technical reasons, this can't go back to 65 years. Increase the minimum wage, the AOW and the assistance by 3%. Lowering your own risk in care by €100. Increase the elderly discount by €200 extra. The landlord's tax is significantly reduced. The tax authority gets an additional 500 million a year for more control: that earns itself more than back. The load on tap water (bol) to 0%. And finally, the penalty goes off the table. The plans of 50PLUS will reduce the government's surplus by nearly 1 billion next year, compared to the government's plans. But then there's still a surplus of over 7 billion. Structurally, 50PLUS is therefore very healthy. The cost of lowering the AOW age is very high between now and 2060. We are not avoiding that, but that is very gradual and our coverage measures are also running up. The Netherlands is rich enough for it. Mr. Chairman. A counter-budget is not an election programme. Unfortunately, it is impossible to achieve all the wishes of any party responsibly in just one year's time. Buying power effects are not passed on to a counter-budget, but it's no secret that 50PLUS is primarily committed to a well-earned catch-up for older people, after yet another setback in 2017, and now, most importantly, in 2018. 50PLUS also leaves the government's tax reduction in 2019 intact. This reduction is therefore also reflected in our plans for workers and not for workers. Mr. Chairman. We are increasing the AOW and the assistance based on the increase in the minimum wage extra and we have always fought for the maintenance of the AOW age at 65, because a low AOW age is the crown of any welfare state. It's a sign of civilization. According to the Planning Bureau, lowering the AOW age to 65 cannot be carried out in 2019 for technical reasons. That's why it happens in two steps: 66 years in 2019 and 65 years in 2020. The cost of lowering the AOW age back to 65 years is and will remain the subject of much discussion. But it is certain that they will only gradually rise high in the next more than 40 years. Then, of course, it will be gradual.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u100	Mr. Van Rooijen, I'm sorry to interrupt, but you still have very little time. You have less than a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u101	I saw that. That's right, Mr. Chairman. And I'll make it easy because I'm on the last page.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u102	Great.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u103	I'm watching the clock. That's what I learned back in the day. As I said, the cost of a reduction is a subject of much discussion, but it is certain that it will gradually increase. Assuming the models of the planning agency, lowering the AOW-age costs structurally 1.8% of the national product. We knew that before the elections two years ago. In this case, the effects of our plans for the Treasury are structurally up to minus EUR 5.5 billion. If we compare that with the plans of other parties from Choices in Map 2018-2021...................................................................................................................... Finally, Mr President. The AOW measure is costly but affordable, even after 2019. It's a political choice. However, a full CPB transfer including purchasing power and feasibility effects is not offered in a counter-budget. So you'll have to wait for that. On our party site you can find the whole bill. We are so transparent and clear. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS makes clear choices. We choose the people who really need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u104	There is another question from Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u105	I hesitated for a moment, but I would like to go back to the beginning of the speech on the Tax Administration for political purity. If I remember correctly, Mr Van Rooijen put it this way. Should we have sent Secretary of State Wiebes away when the Borstlap report was published? And he said, asking the question is answering it. Now I know Mr Van Rooijen as a careful parliamentarians. And he also knows the law of the state. Actually, I'm assuming he expressed himself a little careless. But if he really thinks so, then he should file a motion of censure against the current Secretary of State. And he doesn't mean that, does he?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u106	No, I'm not serious. I wanted to say that if that report had been there then this Chamber could have taken that view. I'm not sure. But if that report had been there, it could have led to that consequence. That is the thrust of my speech. For the record, that's what I meant to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u107	Then I conclude that your rhetorical question was formulated carelessly. Otherwise, there would be only one answer. And I wouldn't recommend that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u108	Thank you. I call Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u109	Mr. Chairman. Five years ago, we had a construction site at our house. That was a lot of preparation, construction calculations were submitted, again and a whole lot of hassle. Then we started building and it turned out that the first more work was already equal, because there had to be land improvement. Put out a foot and a half of ground to make it even firmer. Anyway, now we're over five years ahead and we're having a lot of fun with that very strong foundation. Even where you were at risk of tearing, they're still not there. And I don't expect them in the future either. I have an acquaintance who bought a house that was already built on. A few years ago it turned out that this was not such a great foundation. The result is, of course, also bad. Things are starting to go down a little bit, the doors aren't closing properly, and so on and so on. You've got a lot of stuff going on with that, and there's also uncertainty towards the future. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruins referred earlier to Matthew 6. I refer to Matthew 7. It is actually a practical effect of the wise and the foolish builder. Our question is therefore: does the Minister want to be a foolish or a wise builder? Does he want a huge effort at the front, where, even if you think you're about ready, you might stick a spa deeper to really lay a good foundation? Or does he want to be a silly builder with stuff at the back? Of course, I'd like to hear the answer to that later. Mr. Chairman. When the briefcase was handed over a few weeks ago, the Minister spoke very nice words about good preparations for harsh times. But if the Minister really means his words, he should not have come up with this budget as far as we are concerned. Because public finances are not really improving. The budget deficit is increasing and collective burden pressures are increasing. We're gonna pay more, and it's not enough to cover all the expenses. That while the risk of setbacks is increasing; it has already come by more often. What's it gonna take to get in trouble? A Brexit? A trade war? A new crisis? I'm afraid that's not inconvenient. The SGP therefore calls again on the Minister to work on a sound foundation, so that the budget is ready for new storms and winds. We have a number of other topics. I'll start with the donation deduction. "The many positive forces in our society of citizens, associations and communities of faith deserve space." These are warm words in the coalition agreement, to which it was added later that "a austerity of the gift deduction is by no means the purpose." But the voters are being abandoned. Churches, cultural institutions, charities; they are not given a heart, but a dagger in the back. For what is in the Tax Plan, hidden in the term "base broadening"? A vulgar cut on the donation deduction. Gifts may no longer be deducted at the higher rate, but only at 37%. That's a big difference. This cut is just tens of millions. I don't care about the system. I am concerned with the result that, in the end, less money will come into these churches at these institutions, at these charities. Our question is, therefore, how does the Secretary of State reconcile this with the promise made less than six months ago? He got it before he left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u110	Mr Slootweg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u111	I do object to the dagger-in-the-backthesis, apart from the fact that it is not always happy in a historical context either. I understand you're saying maybe we'd made other choices. But do you really think that this measure is a dagger in the back, which makes it no longer possible for people to give gifts? Are you serious?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u112	I'm not saying it's not possible to give gifts. It is not about the giving side. There's gonna be less coming in soon. If you're planning to give €1,000 and you're above that limit, you were talking about €100,000 earlier, but it already applies from €68,500 and then there's net €400 less coming in at that charity. That's my point. I want a fix on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u113	Do you therefore agree with me that the person you mention, who gets less than €400 from the collective, has been more than corrected in his wallet because the tax has gone down? So he has more left in his wallet, from which he can easily finance the €400.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u114	I think there might be a part of that, but not by a long shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u115	Then I'd really do the math again. A person who has €68,000 or more will really get more in return through the tax reduction than he will not get back through the deduction of the gifts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u116	I'd like to hear the answer from the cabinet later. But I have a very different picture of it all the time. Then you should also take the total picture, but I don't think we should name all the elements now. However, the limitation of the mortgage interest rate deduction for precisely these categories also plays a part in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u117	I am concerned with the words you use, Mr Stoffer, when you speak of "a dagger in the back."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u118	I've spoken those words on purpose. Mr. Chairman. I will move on to the marginal burden: to make more money and to have virtually nothing of it. One earners pay up to six times more tax than two earners. A tax system that is so decorated does not stimulate people. We have already given the calculation example of a earner who was going to earn €10,000 more, but did not yet earn €500. The SGP is pleased that on average the so-called growth trap has declined, but there is still a group that will be begging the boss not to give a salary increase. Why not? Because they return one and a half euros for each extra euro salary. That is why the call: not only do research into reducing marginal pressure, but actually take steps. Step one is set. We're happy about that. Now we'd like to see step two, three and four. Then there's the monument deduction. If you now own a monument, you have a maintenance obligation since 2016. Butter in the fish and the government had to provide for a proper tax regime, which had to make maintenance affordable. And it worked. But what does the legislator do now? He removes the monument deduction, but maintains the maintenance obligation. That's a bad thing. An alternative subsidy scheme is not sufficient. Not all private owners can use it. The risk that the budget does not fully benefit private owners is high. You can just fish behind the net because the pot is empty. Well maintained monuments are in the interests of all society. That is why we are asking for the deduction of monuments to be kept as it is today. I would also like to mention the 30% regime and the dividend tax, because we also see the government as an unreliable legislator in the depreciation of monuments on these two items. With regard to the sudden cessation of the 30% regime for expats without any transitional rights, the SGP very much agrees with the Council of State's view that this is not a proof of solid legislation. Nor does it respect existing rights. In addition, it certainly does not fit in with wanting to be attractive and remain as a country of residence. The dividend tax is abolished: an expensive measure with thin arguments. But something as basic as a transitional arrangement for the expats can't get rid of it. The SGP, like GroenLinks, therefore calls for a transitional arrangement. As far as we are concerned, a good compromise would be to give that to, for example, an income of one tonne. Then the cover could be found at the end of the scheme. We would like to see a response to that. A third example of fickle legislation: the tax plans for directors-major shareholders. Maximising the untaxed borrowing of the e.g. may be something to say, but it is also true that expectations have been created and that the legislator has the task of acting predictable and reliablely. Many entrepreneurs make long-term choices, for example for their retirement provision. The anticipation effects are reported to be enormous. Does the Secretary of State have any idea who might be in trouble? We expect this to be the case. Can the cold be removed from the air? I have two more subjects, but I can be very brief. D66 has already said something about the Municipal Fund. We are happy to support that. Then the IRS. That is what Mr Van Rooijen has said so extensively. We also have these concerns and we would like to hear the answers to the questions that have been asked. I'll come to a conclusion. I began with the likeness of the wise and foolish builder. Jesus spoke much in parables, and that also gives a lot of thought. I am always happy to read that, but I can imagine that as Minister, Secretary of State, Member of Parliament, or just someone from society who thinks about the future, you get tired of it and think: that burden is far too heavy for me. Then I have a good perspective, because if you read through Matthew............................................................................................................................................... That is a perspective that we can strongly recommend to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u119	A very short question. At the beginning and at the end it was about the right foundation and between them there were a lot of deductions that should not be abolished and measures that cost money and need to be continued longer. How will the SGP strengthen that foundation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u120	That foundation is about the long perspective, but we also see a number of practical problems that are not necessarily huge cost items. You can count on the SGP. We would like to hear the answers to the questions, but if we come up with alternative proposals later, we will also come up with cover. It is not the case that we are going to create an additional gap, but there is therefore a longer-term problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u121	I agree. That is why I am asking: what are the solutions of the SGP for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u122	First of all, I would like to hear the Minister's views on the long-term perspective. Then we're gonna talk about how we do it. That's gonna hurt, I think it's pretty clear. If we're willing to do something more, we'll do something less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u123	Mr Slootweg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u124	I think this is half the story of Mr Stoffer. I understand that you have some wishes and that you want to hear how they can be covered. But you started the story with this cabinet just spending too much money. So apart from all repair operations, I'd be brave if you'd at least tell me how you want those other things covered. What's gonna be less?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u125	For example, I have already appointed cover for the expat scheme. We have just had a debate on the reduction of donations. Then it's about 20 million. That's not big money. If something plays with that later, I like to hear what fits, because I understand that a system adjustment is difficult. But you might be able to figure out how to fix it. That's what we like to watch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u126	If I take the expat scheme and cover with it the gift allowance, I might have something left. But when it comes to the shelf life deficit of 0.4%, you really don't get there with just scorching off the expat scheme. Then you really should do more. I think it is fair for Mr Stoffer to indicate what measures he intends to take to achieve that 0.4%. With the expat scheme, I don't think you're gonna get 0.1% off it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u127	I think we're getting two things mixed up right now. I'm not naming the expat scheme as cover. With the adjustment I want, I have indicated a cover. If you're really talking about the longer term, about where we're going, I'd like to hear the cabinet story first. Then we're gonna take a look at what you're putting under there. I'm not cheap enough to say, let's let that be the dividend tax. That's way too cheap. No cheap answers. I understand that it is quite difficult, but it is an issue that we are debating with each other here in this Chamber at the sharpest of the cuts. And that's what we're gonna do. You challenge me, that is good, but that is the story after the first term of the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u128	You still can't leave, Mr. Stoffer, because Mrs. Leijten has something else to ask you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u129	Yes, Mr. Chairman, when it comes to coverage, when it comes to dealing well with the money, I do have a question. You do not want to give up the dividend tax as cover, but will the SGP support the abolition of the dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u130	You will have heard me in an interrupting debate with the VVD. If the argument doesn't get any thicker than it is now, then we can't be in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u131	Clear. That is the cover for Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u132	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Mr Azarkan van DENK has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u133	Mr President, thank you. I'd like to start by complimenting you on the manners here in the Chamber. That was different, at least last week. I hope that after my contribution and Mr Baudet's, this will still be the case. Mr. Chairman. I have had a bit of a gnawing feeling since I was in politics, a feeling that unfair and unfair financial decisions are being made in our country, a feeling that this cabinet keeps us sweet with all kinds of color pictures and purchasing power talks, averages, medians and other statistical data. Where am I supposed to go with that gnawing feeling? As I walked with my soul under my arm, a historian's statement shot through my head: if the ladies and gentlemen want to learn to interpret problems in society better, then knowledge of the past is necessary. I thought, "Let's take a look at that past." It was not so long ago that a deadly cocktail of greedy bankers, failing supervisors and political pressure led to the start of a global crisis. Do you remember the summer of 2012? June and July were cold, wet and gloomy. And that was also true of the economic situation at the time: it was cold, wet and bleak. The economy was in recession for the third time in four years. Three recessions in four years, a triple dip. And the Rutte II cabinet came up with the biggest austerity package the Netherlands had ever seen: 51 billion trundle Rutte sold society. How did he do that? Pensions were no longer indexed; the AOW age was increased more quickly; VAT was increased to 21%; supplements were reduced; labour and tax reductions were reduced; home care was reduced by 3 billion cuts and 70,000 people were made redundant; savings were made on personal budgets; social provision was dismantled; nursing homes were closed; care premiums increased further and we saw the introduction of the anti-social loan system on top of which this cabinet wants to increase interest rates. These extreme cuts led to dramatically low growth in the years 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. The number of unemployed rose to 700,000. Luckily, the Netherlands recovered from 2016, with a growth of 2.2%. The tide was turning. In 2017, growth is 3.2% and is expected to reach 2.8% in 2018 and 2.6% next year. And then there comes a moment when we have a surplus and we have something to divide. That we can do something in return for those who have had to make sacrifices under difficult circumstances. I can imagine that this is also difficult, because how do you decide what "fairly divide" is? You could look at what that crisis has had to do with the income of companies and people. Let's take a random company. I'll take one: Unilever, random, huh? 2013: 5,263 billion profits. 2014: 5.515 billion profit. 2015: 5.259 billion profits. 2016: 5.547 billion profits. And 2017: 6.486 billion profits. I have also looked at the income figures of Mrs Cornelissen, who has a pension at the Metal and Technics Pension Fund. 2013: -6.3%. 2014: 0%. 2015: 0%. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2017: 0%. And at the bottom of her strip, it said, "Make sure you don't get anything in the years to come." I imagine it's a difficult choice if you have any money left and can split it up once. Because Rutte, of course, thought: who am I supposed to give that to? What is "good people" to speak in VVD terms? He decided not to give 2 billion to Mrs Cornelissen of this world, but to the multinationals, to poor Unilevers and Shells, who do not know what to do with these billions of dollars. And that without any support, without a total picture and without support. I come to the conclusion that the coalition agreement has the wrong title. It's not Trust in the future, it should have been called: More for multinationals, less for people. On top of that 200 billion gift, there is a reduction in the profit tax of EUR 1.8 billion for large businesses. In total, therefore, EUR 4 billion goes to large companies. And the ordinary people are treated to cost increases. The VAT increase will yield 2.6 billion. The energy tax increases by €153 and the rest of the energy bill increases by €193. The health insurance premiums are €252 higher, the own risk remains sky high and other insurances also increase by €84. I can already hear the vassals of this cabinet cry out: purchasing power is increasing by an average of 1.5%. But, Mr President, it has been said a few times: that 1.5% increase in purchasing power is not taken with a grain of salt, but with a kilo of salt. It depends on two important variables, wage increases and inflation rates, and neither does it control this cabinet. Let us take the year 2017 as a lesson and entertainment. The government predicted an increase in purchasing power of 1%, but that eventually became 0.3%. The cabinet made people happy with a dead sparrow, because the teacher, the agent and the caregiver received a tenner a month. In fact, half of the Dutch didn't even improve on it; it declined on it. That this news was going to ruin Rutte's party and Hoekstra's, of course, neither could have. Hence, the figures in the week before Prinsjesdag were strategically leaked by this cabinet, again with so-called "very favourable" purchasing power figures for 2019. But what is such a prophecy worth? Kees Verhoeven would say: it's a mirage. And then we get the climate agreement. That will, of course, also affect the purchasing power. In addition, we also get the sharp rise in electricity prices, partly due to the failure of a number of nuclear power plants in Belgium. This cabinet has calculated an oil price of $72 a barrel. It was already at 85 bucks this morning. The second aspect is that it is an average. As far as I'm concerned, that's like crossing a river. Imagine coming to a river and standing on the shores of Rutte. You ask him the question, "Can I cross here?" Rutte then asks, "How tall are you?" You're gonna give me an answer: '180 meters'. He says, "Then it's gonna work." You start to walk, but halfway across the river you notice you're drowning. And why? Because the river at the beginning is 1.50 meters deep, but in the middle 2 meters. And while you're drowning, Rutte says, "Yes, but it's an average of five feet, so it's got to work." Mr. Chairman. There is also a great gap between rich and poor in this country. The 10% richest Dutch people share 70% of their wealth. Only in the United States is this inequality greater. That brings me to another paradox. In the case of the Millions notes, we were confronted with the fact that there has been no increase in real income since 2001, i.e. for 17 years. The labour income ratio, the part of our national income that goes to employees, has been falling for years. From 80% in 1996 to 73% in 2015. When you stand at a distance, you see that big picture. Because that Dutch employee sighs under ever heavier burdens. And taxes are getting less and less paid by companies and more and more by people. The share that people have to pay increased from 70% to 83%. And the companies pay less every year. Does the Minister think this is fair? A million households can barely make ends meet and 400,000 children grow up in poverty. And the cabinet looks at it and does nothing. Health inequalities between rich and poor are constantly increasing. People with lower incomes live nine and a half years shorter; it was first eight years but now already nine and a half years. Poverty is deadly, but this cabinet does not do enough. A first step could be to slow down the increase in the AOW age. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. When does he expect a new pension agreement, by the way? Another group that I care about are the students. With the anti-social loan system, the cabinet has led students and society to make a cut of nearly EUR 1 billion. What are we seeing right now? People from the lower income groups study less. A dime often remains a dime, and that is when we need more and more skilled staff. It was promised that the savings would be invested in education. It's not gonna get much of that. Another argument that was used is that the interest rate is so low I have heard D66 in particular say that it costs almost nothing to borrow money. However, the cabinet recently announced an increase in interest rates from 2020. To top it all off, the BKR wants to register these student debts. In this way, students are even more disadvantaged and education becomes even more inaccessible. Can the Minister clarify this and put it beyond doubt that these student debts will not be registered? Finally, I would like to say something about the housekeeping booklet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u134	Before proceeding, Mr Van Rooijen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u135	Thank you for Mr Azarkan's speech on study funding and debt. In our election programme, we are almost the only ones who have said: we must restore the basic grant and we are opposed to the loan system. The young people, in particular, have noticed this. What do you think? I think you agree, but I'm very curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u136	Oh, yeah, sure. We tend, Mr Van Rooijen, not only to read our own election programme, but also to read the programmes of our colleagues. Our election program says exactly the same thing. Mr President, I will conclude. Finally, I would like to say something about the housekeeping book. As far as DENK is concerned, the government is focusing too much on the purchasing power picture for the short term, but it is raising the long-term sustainability deficit again. The CPB and the Council of State indicate that the cabinet spends too much money. Contrary to economic logic, there is an expansionary, procyclical policy. We need real buffers to cope well with the next crisis. Because that next crisis is never far away. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u137	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. Finally, Mr Baudet has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are discussing the rich budget and, in fact, all the plans of the cabinet. Because of course all the sensitive political choices of the Rutte/De Jonge cabinet are decided in the funding. I want to try to focus on what I see as the main thrust of this budget. After all, today we are holding the General Financial Reviews, and we are Members of Parliament who have to set out the broad lines and control the government. We are not officials at the Ministry of Finance who deal with the specific implementation and the details. I think we are seeing one clear trend across the board, namely increase in charges. The care premium is rising. Premiums for car and residential insurance are increasing. Energy tariffs and energy taxes are rising. The charges for phone and internet are rising. That is just a number of categories. It was recently calculated that all this amounts to some €700 extra charges per family. These rising costs are part of a broader picture of an overall increase in the collective burden burden burden under the Rutte Cabinets. Since the 2012 Rutte II cabinet in particular, collective burden pressures have increased from 35% to almost 40%. This is the so-called "Rute coefficient." This means that in the last six years 25 billion more of our money has been spent every year as taxpayers' money by the government. In other words, instead of getting €1,000 from Mark Rutte, you have lost €3,000 per year. And what is Minister Hoekstra doing with all that money that Rutte knocked out of the public's pocket? He fast-tracks billions on government debt, while interest rates have not been so low in 500 years and the Netherlands can lend money for virtually free. That is procyclical policy and it is typical of how Rutte has always reacted to economic development. When things went bad, in 2013, he started cutting back and now that things are going well, he's gonna speed up the debt relief. In short, it is not wise. I would like to take three main points from the coalition agreement and contrast the vision of FvD. Let us start with two major cost items that make a huge attack on the purchasing power of the Dutch, two things that cost an incredible amount of money. Firstly, I would like to comment on the continuing immigration and, secondly, on the absurd energy transition. The government opts for continued immigration. I deliberately call it a choice, because that is what it is, even though the government pretends to be some kind of natural phenomenon. The Rutte government chooses to open the borders to anyone who wants to come here. In 2016, 95,136 non-Western immigrants came to the Netherlands. In 2017, there were 87.103. Because of family reunification and their relatively high fertility rates, we can easily multiply that number by a factor of four to see the actual impact of non-Western immigration. What does this immigration bring us? Research, including Dr Jan van de Beek, shows that the costs are many times greater than the benefits. These costs can be found in the whole of the state budget and in all the posts in the state budget. For example, of the 2015 status holders, less than 2% now have a full-time job. 53% of all welfare recipients have a non-Western migration background. There are eight times as many non-Western migrants in prison as native Dutch. There are incredible learning disadvantages in schools that bring the overall level down. And there is an overload of care due to unhealthy lifestyles. I have not even mentioned the cultural conflicts that this immigration brings and which, sooner or later, will, of course, also translate into social costs. Moreover, every year more than 1 billion people go to asylum reception and registration alone. FvD wants the people who come here to bring something. We are not opposed to immigration in principle at all, but we do want people to bring something. That is why we want to introduce the Australian immigration model, where we no longer lie on our backs, but decide who comes in here. We have it all worked out; all information can be found on our website. Then the absurd energy transition. In the hope, perhaps, in the most optimal case, of achieving 0.00007 degrees less warming, our whole society should be on the shovel. Hundreds of billions of costs for households, heat pumps for each family, which is €20,000 per household, the closure of coal power stations without any idea of what should replace that coal energy. We're probably gonna be devoid of biomass. That is nothing but cut-off trees from Canada that do not produce a net CO reduction at all. Bizarrely, that's considered sustainable. The isolation of business premises has been calculated at 20 billion. In total, costs amount to a minimum of 500 billion. At Wiebes' climate tables on electricity, industry, mobility, agriculture and built environment there is a variety of organisations to think about how they are going to realise all these nice, beautiful plans. But the only one who isn't at the table at all these climate tables is the taxpayer. FvD wants to immediately stop this madness, this green madness, this new flood religion that cannot be based on any real political progress. We want to invest in living for the middle class and not spend bizarre amounts on isolating the current homes. We want better education. We want to invest in this and in safety, infrastructure and innovation, and not like crazy for those absurd CO-reduction targets, which the countries around us absolutely do not participate in. This is crazy. Third point. This cabinet and, in fact, all the established parties in this Chamber, when it comes to economics, are constantly in the process of favouring specific groups, identifying certain companies that need to be given more space, and identifying specific regions or population groups. We hear the SP, the PVV, GroenLinks and the PvdA pulling together about whether certain groups are being unjustly forgotten. We hear the VVD and the CDA defending the choices they have made, for example by pointing out specifically lagging salaries or specific contributions from multinationals to the economy. The Forum for Democracy considers this way of business to be wrong. That is the third point I want to make: immigration, climate and economy. We are in favour of generic measures. We believe that Dutch society is ultimately better off with a high tax-free rate for everyone, including AOWs, than with specific subsidies, specific benefits or specific wage reductions for specific groups. FvD therefore wants to gradually increase the tax-free rate to €20,000; a kind of basic income that you do have to work for. For example, you have no more fees, no more exceptions and no more specific groups that overload the Tax Administration. It is simply going to pay again for everyone to work, especially for the vulnerable groups, especially for those on low incomes or those who are currently on welfare. So that's a huge simplification of our system. This simplification can also be extended to the way in which we regulate our industrial relations. We want to radically improve the adoption policy so that entrepreneurs dare to recruit people again. That's a huge problem now, because, among other things, if you want to fire someone or if someone gets sick, you're incredibly hard to get rid of them and you have to pay for years. This risk simply cannot be borne by small or medium-sized enterprises. So we want to make it possible for SMEs to grow more easily. We want to abolish the inheritance and gift tax, not only because it is fair for people who want to leave something to do so, because taxes have already been paid on that money, but also to encourage, for example, family businesses to carry on with the next generation. Generic measures, therefore, to give more confidence to the free economy and to reduce government. That is to say, general measures on the main lines, which benefit everyone. That gives you confidence. So radically changing immigration by introducing the Australian model and determining who we are bringing here would be a huge relief from the total burden that we as a society have to bear, because a lot of the people who are coming here today are not contributing but leading to very big costs, and also to cultural conflicts. Two. Stop the absurd energy transition, which costs hundreds of billions and which will bring all our prosperity to bear over the next ten years. And third. Reduction of government, generic measures, a tax-free base of €20,000 for everyone, and relaxation of the take-up policy, so that entrepreneurs dare to offer people a permanent contract again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u139	I love great political stories and especially if we can look a little further into the future. I think that is important, just like Mr Baudet, because then visions come face to face. However, I do have a question about the views of Mr Baudet. He wants to see heavy relief. He mentions a number of examples, such as inheritance and gift taxes, but he has already mentioned other examples; a substantial reduction in the burden. At the same time, there must be a basic income for everyone of €20,000. How are you going to finance that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u140	Well, for example, by obliging all households to purchase a heat pump of €20,000. That is exactly the amount we want to give tax-free to people and that you want to knock the people out of the bag again because of that crazy energy transition of yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u141	That's not funding. I know Mr Baudet loves Latin, but perhaps he should speak Italian. This is similar to what the Italians are doing: introducing a basic income, introducing tax relief, with the only result being an increase in public debt. Mr Baudet was also critical of this,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u142	There's a big...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u143	...that this cabinet reduces government debt. What do you do, Mr. Baudet, if you let the public debt go up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u144	There is a big difference between a basic income and a basic income for which you have to work, a duty-free foot. I don't know if the representative of GroenLinks sees that at all, but if you just give people money, you do something completely different than when you say the first €20,000 is for you. Second. Yes, of course we have to keep the state finances in order. Only, you have to know where you're going with this. In addition to Italian sayings, there are all kinds of Chinese sayings. One is: for those who do not know where they want to sail, every wind is equally favorable. That is sometimes the feeling that I have here in politics, because it is very much about the short term. You must, perhaps not at once, but slowly but surely towards a much higher duty-free foot. You combine that with a huge simplification of the tax system. You deal with all the surcharges, all the pumping around of money and bureaucracy. You'll see that's a huge boost for the economy, a huge multiplier. One more thing about the obsession with calculating things and the guided planning economy that is being poured down on us from the CPB. Two very important measures will not be passed on either. The first is the abolition of the dividend tax. There's nothing to worry about. Also incalculable, because it is future music and economy is not predictive science but speculative mass psychology. The second is the absurd climate agreement, which costs hundreds of billions. That's not gonna happen either. I think that obsession with that exact math and so forth is bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u145	I agree with Mr Baudet that you need to know a little bit where you're going. I think that's a good idea. We all do that as political parties. That's what we make election programs for. But I have the impression that Mr Baudet is waving a bit with all the winds. Then the course isn't clear either. That's not about passing on, but you have to have a bit of an idea of what the taxpayer will have to pay in the future. All you do is shift burdens to next generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u146	Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u147	That's for a conservative, I guess, not quite...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u148	But why do I do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u149	...a steady course...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u150	We don't want to raise public debt at all. We just don't want to speed up redemption at the moment, when interest rates are so very low. But otherwise... I do not know what Mr Snels is basing this on, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u151	Mr. Snels, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u152	You dare me. But then I would find it interesting to talk about the future of our tax system, including the reduction of charges, including a duty-free foot and including the abolition of certain types of tax. I would like to start the debate on this with you. Then let's see what that means in the longer term. But a little more clarity about where you're actually going would help.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u153	Mr. Stoffer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u154	Can I have one last word on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u155	Bye-bye, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u156	Because I'm now being rubbed that it wouldn't be obvious. But I think it's incredibly obvious. We want to move towards a society in which there is a much simpler tax system, where there are lower taxes and where there is a smaller role of government in the Dutch economy. And we call two very important items, probably the most important ones in our society, the two most important ones in our budget. And then I don't have semicolons and a number here and there. I'm talking about the massive immigration going on and the energy transition. Those are the two things that cost us the most. Then it's really about hundreds of billions. That's what we want to stop. At the same time, we are creating a multiplier in the economy, because people are left with more and so on. And if I may make another point that we might agree on, we should be able to maintain this dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u157	Mr. Snels, I know it's very tempting to respond to this again, but we're not gonna do that. Mr. Stoffer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u158	It was a fine speech by Mr Baudet. It's giving us a lot of thought. I have a very different question. Has there been anything in the debate today that has changed your mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u159	I was hoping this question would come. Then I can say that Mr Stoffer's words have really got me thinking, especially about the donation. You want to make a point about that and I understand that you even... Excuse me? Do the ladies in the front row want to say something at the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u160	Mr Baudet, you will continue to answer Mr Stoffer's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u161	Well, that got me thinking. I was not convinced that it was a good point, but after hearing the argument, I am convinced. So we're going to sign with you later if you're actually filing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u162	This has been a useful debate!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u163	This is really easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u164	Well, I'm a little convinced of you, too, Mr. Azarkan, but not as much as Mr. Stoffer did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u165	Your question, Mr. Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u166	Yes, I will go on before I let Mr Baudet flatter me, because that is always dangerous. I'd still like to go to that tax-free foot of $20,000. About the first $20,000 people make, they don't pay anything. Mr. Baudet, do you have an approximate idea of what that's gonna cost you less? Or you could also say what the "cost" is about the same. What kind of hole do we get in the treasury?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u167	That cannot be said at the moment, because we do not want to introduce it at once. We want to get there gradually. And you'll have to look at how rapidly the labour motivation among the population increases and how quickly the multiplier that results in this is working. Because people are going to work and make money and jobs are being created. There are many countries that have this, such as Singapore and other countries. But in general you can say that in countries that do so in this way, there is a very great motivation to go to work. It's a dot on the horizon. We are convinced, on the basis of our human image and on the basis of our view of the economy, that this will do Dutch society tremendously good. But you can't say if I enter this tomorrow, then... And that is not what we are proposing. So it's a pointless exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u168	I think the problem is not so much that we have a lot of people we don't have at work. Unemployment is on record.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u169	Yeah, but that depends on how you...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u170	Can Mr. Azarkan make his interruption for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Baudet is right to always make a plea to listen carefully to what others say. In this arena, we can exchange ideas and arguments with each other and, on that basis, we may come to different insights. I'd like that. I think it's quite an interesting thought. But let's say we don't tax about $20,000 anymore and we look at the proportion of people who work. If we look at that €20,000 and that percentage and the tax share so roughly, how much are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u172	Again, you can't say that, because you don't know how much goes back into the treasury because you can't predict that multiplier effect in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u173	But ceteris paribus...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u174	Any ceteris paribus equation in terms of a long-term vision of ten to fifteen years is completely pointless. You can't tell what happens when you go to a tax-free foot of €20,000 for every working Dutchman and AOWer over a period of ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u175	Mr. Azarkan, one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u176	I can't get an answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u177	If you like to make some kind of calculation, then you may, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u178	Mr Baudet, Mr Azarkan would like to ask you one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u179	However, this exercise, because if I calculate as quickly as possible €20,000 and a tax burden of let's say 20% with some exemptions and so on, we are talking about €5,000 times the number of people who work, about 8 million. Then we'll talk about 40 billion that we'll have to cough up in the long run. Or would you very much like to maintain these public facilities, our roads, bridges, etc., in a different way? This also applies to investments in education and so on. So I'm curious how the PVV will work this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u180	For questions about the PVV you need to be with Geert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u181	Mr Baudet has started another party. I'll give you another chance to answer. I shall now give the floor to Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u182	So again, if you say we're gonna do this tomorrow, we're gonna charge ourselves maybe 50 billion dollars, then you're gonna come up with something like that. That's a completely pointless number, because you can't predict the payback effect. You cannot say: if we reduce taxes by so much, it will have as much effect as we combine it with a relaxation of the take-up policy. That's totally wet fingering. Perhaps I can remind Mr Azarkan of the first two elements. I indicated that we might be able to say on a number of parts of the budget that there is a little more money going to middle incomes or low incomes than we are now. Some people want that to go to school. But there are two giant elephants in the Chamber: the massive immigration, which costs us God-awful money, and the absurd climate transition, which, if possible, costs even more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u183	Clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u184	That's where the money is. That is where all the prosperity of Dutch society goes. And we're snooping about percentage points and millions and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u185	I call Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u186	With some hesitation, this speculative mass psychologist takes a seat behind the microphone. Actually, I had more of a question. It'll help if you paint an image of where you're going. I do not want to ask you in detail what the path to this end is in the first instance. But in that system of €20,000, you must have worked for: what if someone with a disability only manages to get €5,000 from an employer? What exactly does that country look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u187	You're asking what the situation looks like for that person?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u188	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u189	So the question is whether, despite the enormous simplification of the tax system and so on, the Forum for Democracy is still in favour of some kind of safety net for people with disabilities. Am I to understand that that's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u190	Yeah, basically. 'Cause you're saying I want to give that $20,000 for someone who worked. Now it's only possible to earn $5,000. Does that mean you only have $5,000 to live on? Or is there still something from a safety net?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u191	In our election programme and in the writings of people who may be counted among our party ideologies, a basic safety net is indeed maintained. So you don't have to say at all: we're going to stop the assistance completely, we're going to stop completely with a certain basic safety net. But of course, you can radically simplify a lot of what we now have in terms of bonuses and so on. But no one will argue that there are no exceptions to any system, and that there are no pathetic cases to think of in every model, which we will undoubtedly have to look at with each other. I think it's important to say first: how do we want the big line? What's gross modo the direction we want to go? We have gone from 35% of the collective burden burden to almost 40% of the collective burden. That's just way too much. That government is way too big. It's gotta be smaller. We'll have to cut into that. And yes, of course, when people fall between shores and ships, I find it absolutely an element of a good society that we pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u192	I had hoped for a slightly shorter and more concrete answer, but at least I thank Mr Baudet for that answer. Still. Actually, in my philosophy, he indicates that he is someone from the broad lines of "I want to go there"...... but he does understand to do that in small, easy-to-use pieces, as it should be with someone from a conservative mindset. Can we expect Mr Baudet next year to indicate what small, concrete steps he wants to take so that we can slowly grow to that country of his?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u193	I will tell you even more: I assume that next year we will have become an effective partner in this cabinet because we will have taken the majority of this cabinet from the Upper Chamber. So then we are sitting at the table and then you also need our support in the Lower House to get something through in the Upper House at all. So we are not just going to present a counter-budget, we are going to contribute to next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u194	Mr Slootweg, finally. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u195	It's always so funny that someone who first of all says that he thinks it's so important to control power, in essence always has the will to sit in that place. But it is also very clear where your ambition lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u196	I would like to say to Mr Baudet: 'welcome to the party cartel'. You've already announced yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u197	That the SP welcomes me there, that is a unique one!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u198	Well, I don't think of myself as a tolerated partner. No, then new elections: I would find that much better for grassroots groups, for democracy. Anyway... I find it interesting that you say that the collective burden burden is too high and that it should be greatly reduced. Then I would also like to know what Forum for Democracy wants to do less. What needs to be removed, for example from the Social Affairs and Health budget? Those are the biggest blowers, and the next one is education. What exactly do you think you need to get out of there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u199	I think I turned that in. Mass immigration, we have to stop doing that, and the absurd climate transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u200	Point that out to the budget. Because they are not now on the budget as the largest items. The largest posts are Social Affairs, care and education. If you say "it should be less," so it should be less than 40%, then you should also say where. Or you say: "We are going to make sure that all those companies that dodging and avoiding taxes are going to contribute." Because then the bill of ordinary households goes down. But I've never heard you say that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u201	It is true that the cost of mass immigration is not broken down as such in the budget. The point is that these costs are reflected in everything, for example in insecurity. That is to say, in the higher costs of making society safer. You call it education. A very large proportion of the problems in education are due to the extreme learning disadvantages that exist in migrant families, especially non-Western immigrant families. In particular, non-western immigrants are heavily overrepresented in healthcare costs, including through an unhealthy lifestyle. So all those problems that you now call a category are suffering from another problem, which I call one of the two elephants in the Blue Book and in the Chamber, namely uncontrolled and continuous mass immigration. In addition, there is the absurd energy transition. We haven't talked about that yet, but it's also intertwined with almost everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u202	I'm getting a little annoyed. Of course, delays in people can lead to costs, and this can also be related to migration. Deficiencies lead to further delays, and even earlier deaths. There will be no debate in this House, or we will ask for attention to be paid to it. That puts Mr Baudet away a little bit as if we were there for certain target groups, but I don't care if it's a Frisian family with a language disadvantage or a boy from Amsterdam with Turkish parents with language disadvantage. We all have to work on that. But Mr Baudet says: we must stop immigration. Okay, but that means that the people who are there now and lead to those costs are still there, and so are the costs. And he says at the same time: I want to cut the government budget. Then I think you should tell me where to do that. Where are you supposed to do that? Can't those people with a migration background go to school anymore? Can't they go to the hospital anymore? You're gonna have to tell me what you're gonna do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u203	Clear. Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u204	First of all, this massive immigration continues. That is what I indicated at the beginning of my speech. At least 100,000 people come in every year. Okay, last year it was 95,000, but you have to do that number times four if you want to know...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u205	Mrs Leijten, you will have a short opportunity to ask your question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u206	Mr Baudet, I am delighted that you are taking part in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u207	I am also delighted that you are taking part in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u208	I also think it is very good that you provoke and challenge others to interrupt. But you say we have to bring down the collective burden, and I do that by stopping migration. That's for the future. At the same time, you say that the collective burden should be reduced. Then you'll have to tell me where. Then you should also say: we no longer do consultancies, or childcare. I don't give a shit, but you're gonna have to tell me where they cut it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u209	Clear. Mr. Baudet, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u210	Well, shall we start by completely dismantling Minister Kaag's post and stopping all development cooperation? This leads to pointless exercises in Africa, while we have to invest in education in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u211	You were done with your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u212	Yes. I thought it was an interesting debate. Thank you for the interruptions. I wish the Minister much wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u213	Thank you, Mr Baudet. That brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-6.u214	The Financial Reviews will continue tomorrow from 1.30 p.m., if that's all right. Then the spokesperson will receive answers to all their questions from the Minister and the Secretary of State.
