ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. The next item is the continuation of the budget debate on Economic Affairs and Climate Change. It is up to the directors in the first term to answer the questions and the responses to the Chamber's contribution last Tuesday. I would like to welcome you all. Firstly, you, of course, as members of the Chamber, but also the directors, the official support, the public and all those who follow this meeting differently. We agreed that each group would be able to ask the spokesmen ten questions in principle. They decide whether that's two, three, four or ten different times. That's up to the spokesmen themselves. I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to respond. It is agreed that the Minister will respond in a number of blocks. It is advisable for the sitting to proceed in an orderly manner to seek to wait until a block has been completed, unless, of course, there is a multitude of points to be questioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u2	I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank Members for the multitude of questions, partly written but partly oral, because they will play a role in the debate. The chairman attaches to cubes. First of all, I would like to focus on economic policy, which is the first block. Within the energy block, all kinds of questions have been asked about instruments, such as the SDE. That's what I wanted to do inside energy first. Second questions of support have been asked within the energy block. Biomass and geothermals are discussed. Nuclear energy has been discussed. Then there are all kinds of other questions within energy and climate. So that's the sub-blocks over there. Then I'll come to Groningen and gas. Then, in the first period, I would like to deal with two amendments which are addressed to me. After that, the Secretary of State will take over. Mr. Chairman. A large number of questions have been asked about various aspects of government policy. I'll be happy to deal with that later. What strikes me is that rather few concerns have actually been expressed or fundamental observations have been made by the House of Representatives on economic policy or the economic picture. I honestly believe that there are questions about this in society. However, I think that the budget debate at EZK is the time for a brief reflection. In no way do I wish to suggest that I have the last word on this or even that you think it would be a sensible contribution to the debate, but well, then this is also the budgetary treatment in which you can respond. But I think it is useful to take the questions as much as the ones put forward in this Chamber at the time. And what I note is that I do this only from this role and from this point on, in my view, there is a growing ambivalence in terms of prosperity and economic growth. Ambivalence in the sense of both the one hand and the other. On the one hand, there is the very important thing that is still attached or renewed to prosperity and purchasing power that we have been able to hear many times over the past year and the broad desire for more. More about our own wallet, but also more about public services we bring together. So on the one hand, the lake. On the other hand, let us be honest here and there a growing displeasure with the side effects of prosperity and the way in which it comes about. Let's face it, that's the ambivalence I see. We do not need to dwell on the economy. Everyone knows that we can now speak of high-conjuncture. I don't have to talk about that very much. It is also no credit to the Minister of EZK, not even in the full size of EZK officials, but we have a wonderful growth forecast for the next year, we have seventeen quarters of growth in a row, we are way above the euro area and our gross domestic product is currently higher than it has ever been, also adjusted for inflation higher than before the crisis. We have a level of unemployment that we experienced once in 1974, and there are just 1,000 jobs per working day at the moment. I can say populistally that that is the staff of three coal power stations. 1,000 jobs a day are added. And we have a sovereign debt that we really do not have to be ashamed of in any way in relation to our peers. We're gonna be under 50% in 2019. The UK is very happy with a percentage below 90, Spain is very happy that it is still below 100, and the US is already not achieving that. Italy's about 130. I can finish the list, and then we'll go over 200. We, as Western countries, need not be ashamed of this in any way. And who do we match with a fourth budget surplus in a row? Drees. This is the last thing that happened in Drees' time. I can list a lot of things. The confidence in the Dutch economy is high. And as a bouncer, but I had initially meant it as a compliment to the House of Representatives: yes, almost 60% of the Dutch have confidence in the House of Representatives. That is nice, and to my surprise I saw that the same applies to the government. It's all beautiful. We don't go into that very deeply. But there is also attention to the shadows of that prosperity. People are relatively optimistic at the moment, but they do reason in the vein of: I might be okay, but are we okay? "Our" is exactly today's debate. We're talking in this room about "us" and not "me" or "you." We are talking about "us," and that applies to every group. That Dutchman, and that is the one side of the ambivalence, really appreciates his prosperity. That 2.6% nobody cares about a rake. When I ask around me, "Do you want to add 2.6%?', People do not react to it, but prosperity as a principle and as a feeling lives strong. If we started a campaign with excuses for the energy transition, with "do you lower the thermostat or take a shorter shower," then the newspapers are full of hilarity. People don't want any less, people actually want a little bit of it every year. And we also know intellectually that prosperity does a lot of good things, for life expectancy alone, but also for the quality of life and the quality of our public health. We also know that it takes prosperity to raise the cost of care, pension costs, and the cost of all public services. We know that prosperity equals comfort, a warm house, a car much safer than it used to be. We also know, at least we should know, that global prosperity is the best cure for overpopulation, dictatorship, discrimination against women, child mortality, and so I can go on for a long time. We know that, but that's one side of the coin for a lot of people. I mean, is this enough? Well, there are questions about that. We can ignore them, but I suggest we name them. I would like to comment very briefly on this, and I am sure that you all have your own thoughts about it. We really do not need to discuss all this today, but I think that this should be addressed in the EZK budget. I see three questions. The first question that many people ask is: is a further increase in prosperity justified, given the climate challenges? I look into the eyes of people who have that question high on the agenda. The second question that many people also have is: who is actually benefiting from this increase in prosperity? That's an important question. The third question is asked a lot here; the media are also involved. Are companies, especially large companies, actually contributing sufficiently to prosperity and well-being? Those are all questions. I treat them one by one and not comprehensively but compactly. The first: is further prosperity growth really desirable in the context of climate change? You can ask. Prosperity has always been the main driving force behind greenhouse gas emissions. We just have to face that. Prosperity was not the main driver of emissions of all kinds of air pollution or particulate matter, but it was the main driver of greenhouse gas emissions. And we have very significantly changed that relationship between prosperity and emissions in itself. Gross domestic product is three quarters higher than in 1990. Three-quarters higher means we're almost twice as rich. And since 1990 greenhouse gas emissions have fallen by about 13%, which is, moreover, particularly mentioned in the context of non-COne, so there has been a much more favourable relationship between these two, but can we say that additional prosperity never leads to additional emissions? I don't think so. I don't think we've achieved that yet. So with this link between growth and emissions, we would still not make it to Paris. There's a lot to be done. And that further decoupling is therefore also a duty. How would you do that? I am also saying the other way round: we also need money if we are to tackle these emissions drastically. Read: Prosperity needed. Or read: extra wealth is needed. Or read: economic growth desirable. But if I put it very sharply, I'd say it like this, and then I'm selective in certain directions, a little towards this side, look. It is my conviction that I speak for myself here, that without prosperity growth there will be no support for climate change. People don't like to turn in prosperity. But I also say the other way around: if we do not achieve climate change, there will be no support for further prosperity growth in the long term. In a country in which the tribes of Klaver and Kops live peacefully together, it is en- and: as well as prosperity, and climate. We need that decoupling. I say this not only because some want it autonomously and intrinsically, but also because others will see their welfare goal threatened. So I say here: EZ and K. That is my first point. The second question I raised is: who is actually benefiting from prosperity growth? Not everything you read about that is true, without me saying that everything is false. Let me just get two out of it. Let me ask the question: are the rich richer and the poor poorer? No, we have the gini coefficient for that, and it's been a plateau for a very long time. Period. So this isn't true. We shouldn't be looking for it in there. It's a good question, I asked him myself; you may not think it's a good question, but this is not right. Then there is the second question. It is always a pity if Mr Nijboer is not here, but I am looking in the direction of Mr Moorlag. Is it perhaps the case that prosperity increasingly goes to capital and less to labour? We're talking about the labour income ratio. No, it is also back on the long-term average in 2018. So no, it's not like capital wins from labor. So prosperity is not disproportionate in the case of higher incomes and not disproportionate in the case of businesses. But there is one question we can ask ourselves. It's about the struggle between public services and the private wallet. A euro going gross to households, a euro prosperity for households, can only be spent in two ways. One is on its own consumption via its own wallet, and the other is on collective spending, such as care, pensions, education, police, defence, salaries in the public sector and so on. There are only two ways to spend that euro. And we both want to. Frankly, there is not much division about that at all. All Dutch want both. If you're really looking at that, a lot of people say, "Yes, I'd like to have more to spend. I want to live well. I see that I will also have a cost of the climate assessment myself." Those people have a point. Their gross wages have grown long-term with prosperity, but their net wages have not been for 15 years. So these people have a point. But according to research, these same people appreciate more and better public services. The same people say, "Yes, I want better care. I'll give you some money for that. I'd like better care. I also want better education." That's what they say. That's very high. They say, "Yes, I want that in the pensions sphere too." And people say, "Yes, I realize that we also have something to do in the public sphere when it comes to the climate, and I support it." That's what a lot of people say. And yes, there is also broad sympathy, as far as I see it, for a better reward for people doing executive work in the collective sector. We both want to. What do you do if you want both? This cabinet does both. But if you do both, there is still something to be desired on both fronts. On the one hand, we will reduce the burden of 6 billion. This leads to 1.5% purchasing power growth. On the other hand, we spend 10 billion more in the public sector: 5 billion in healthcare alone, 2 billion in education and so on. As far as I am concerned, this agrees that, provided we meet the one-line condition, we must continue to focus on sustainable prosperity growth, because we simply want a lot. We want a lot of privacy. And people really don't say that they want to spend all that on cars or chips on the couch; they call very real things, like living wishes. That's what they want. But we also want a lot in the collective. It is therefore a question of both the collective and the own wallet. That's what people report. The only way to do that is in a sustainable way to ensure that prosperity and that it meets that need. Then there's the third question. It's kind of up-to-date, too. Are these companies, especially those large companies, actually contributing enough? You can look at that question in a lot of different ways, but it is being asked more and more often and in an increasingly intrusive tone. And it is a good question, because why should companies, which are simply nothing but organizations of capital and labour for a purpose, be allowed to withdraw from society as profit machines? That's a good question. In fact, I have not yet made a definitive conclusion on that question. A few things don't seem right to me. In financial terms, I do not see the declining role of companies, not even large companies. All the room in the coalition agreement for relief goes to the households. Zero load relief space goes to companies. Zero. On the contrary, companies experience a cumulative burden increase of 3.5 billion. The delta is therefore clearly not in favour of the companies. I have had a few moments when I found myself wanting, in this role as minister of EZK, that this cabinet might be a little more the cabinet of the big companies, but that was not given to me. Large companies make a very significant contribution to job creation. Partly they are also the ones who employ zzp'ers. The contribution of large companies to innovation and R&D is undisputed: 60% of R&D and innovation come from large companies. Even when it comes to hiring people with disabilities, it is safe to say that companies are performing well. They have achieved their goal very broadly and certainly defeated the government in terms of this social goal. Anyway, this image doesn't have everyone and this image doesn't say everything. I see two great opportunities for companies to reverse the goal; I am speaking to these companies now. The first chance is really a generous and credible contribution to climate change. That is something that is also expected of the companies. The electricity sector and industry together account for two thirds of the total task. That's a very solid one. A second point we need to challenge businesses is a strong commitment to the economic opportunities of societal challenges in the context of top sectors policy. For that, the policy on our side is undoubtedly with the Secretary of State. This is what companies are doing, and that is what we should expect from them. I challenge the companies to show the Netherlands how we can be proud of our companies. This includes these two challenges. Mr. Chairman. I see there's an ambivalence in our attitude to prosperity, but it's as far as I'm concerned and-and. We need to curb purchasing power and public services and unease. This is an inevitable Dutch effort, as far as I am concerned, a typical Dutch one. Profit and a contribution to societal challenges: both. Public provisions and purchasing power: both. Prosperity and climate: both. I am not quite done with this block, but I can imagine that this will lead to interruptions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr Van der Lee has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you to the Minister for this fascinating consideration, in which I can go a long way. Maybe I should take one misunderstanding away, because the Minister was just looking in my direction. Look, GroenLinks is not against prosperity and prosperity growth. We see economic growth as a measure of all our human activities. But we also see that these activities in a number of areas transcend the limits of the planet. I have a question about this, also because of the liberal nature of this govern ment. Where really far-reaching planetary boundaries are crossed, we must do something. Then it's always choosing between seducing or forcing people. The problem with the policy is often that we do not handle freerider behavior properly. You've got frontrunners, you've got people and businesses who walk along and you've got runners. The latter think: if I don't participate, my prosperity will grow the hardest, because others will solve the collective problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u6	Do you come to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u7	My question is whether the Minister thinks that the balance between obligation and seduction is fairly divided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u8	There's two sides to that. Let's point out that the signature under Paris is not non-binding. Period. The goal stands and is not without obligation. Everyone will indeed have to contribute to this. That is why no less than two thirds of the task has been done in the electricity sector and in industry alone. On the other hand, I have not yet shared with you Mr Van der Lee that I think... Look, I always say: with two engineers and an economist we make it up in one day, but then we don't get the Netherlands. Then there is also a lot going wrong, also things that Mr Van der Lee and I both think are wrong, because the ideas in this Chamber are not so different. Jobs aren't getting ratted out by anyone. It is therefore important to do it with a convenient mix of seduction and mandatory standards. Maybe that tastes a little different, but what says is that it's not noncommittal. If seduction doesn't work, it has to be done in other ways. In fact, we must not let the tension between the frontrunners and the hitters increase. It will therefore have to apply to everyone. I don't think we disagree on that in essence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u9	A follow-up question from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u10	Yeah, one follow-up question about that to make it a little more specific. When we look at the taxation of energy and CO emissions in the Netherlands, we just see that the citizens are really paying a lot and the large consumers are very little. They also pay much less in international terms than companies in neighbouring countries. The balance between seducing businesses and obliging citizens has therefore been lost. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u11	We have devoted a great deal of time to this in the debate. In the principle that the consumer pays, we can find each other. But I'm a little more cautious when it comes to guarding the playing field. The Netherlands has a disproportionate share of energy-intensive industry. That is not a bad thing, but it is a good thing, because this industry is more efficient here than elsewhere. We do not want this production to leak out and there will be more emissions elsewhere. But in the end we will also have to find other solutions for this energy-intensive industry. There may be tempo or taste differences, but I do not think we are having a big discussion about the principles. Let's review the climate agreement as soon as it's there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u12	A positive approach: in a splendid speech, the Minister refers to the reverse of economic growth. We have often talked about the broad concept of prosperity and that we are interested in later and elsewhere. The question I would like to ask is the following. The Minister with the Animal Party says that growth must be decoupled from CO emissions. It is a fact that he calls it and we agree on that. The SDGs are actually driving economic growth. As Minister Kaag has pointed out, the economic growth needed to achieve the SDGs is not yet independent of CO emissions. Does the Minister of Economic Affairs recognize that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u13	No, I think I just said that I think the goals are still pointing towards increasing our prosperity, while at the same time decoupling as a prerequisite. I do not know whether Mr Van Raan and I are saying very different things at the moment. Then what's the exact question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u14	I do not think we are saying anything else so far, but we must take the next step. I would like the Minister with the Animal Party to note that there seems to be a system or weaving error in this area in the SDGs, because the Sustainable Development Goals still assume growth that is not decoupled from CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u15	Well, I can't judge that like that. I propose that Mr Van Raan put that question to Mr Kaag. I don't think we think differently about the principles.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u16	Would you like to devote your third question to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u17	No, because the Minister has just said: I suggest that you ask Mr Kaag that question. I did. It confirms that this decoupling is not at issue, not yet. So she is actually saying that there is a system error there, but those are the words of the Party for the Animals and not of its................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is whether he sees this system error as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u18	But that is the third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u19	If Mr Kaag replied on behalf of the cabinet, why do we have to deal with this question here again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u20	You may, Mr. Van Raan, but it's your fourth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u21	No, it's still the second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u22	No, it's the fourth question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u23	It is the second question that the Minister answers with a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u24	Yes, the answer is to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u25	Not at all! No, I said first that the question should be asked to another ruler. Then I get the answer that this has already happened. Then I would point out that at least that question does not need to be answered again. I did not ask Mr Van Raan any questions. I could think of many questions for Mr Van Raan, but these were not two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u26	In conclusion, I do not ask a question that one minister agrees with the other minister that there is a looming error in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u27	Then maybe that's something...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u28	Can the Minister confirm that this is my fourth question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u29	Yeah, that's the fifth question for you. It's okay, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u30	I only conclude that the cabinet speaks with one voice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u31	The fifth question: yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u32	The Minister may respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u33	I note that the cabinet speaks with one voice and that I do not have to answer any more questions, especially if a colleague has much more sense of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u34	First of all, I would like to say that I do appreciate this introduction by the Minister, this macro-economic, fundamental consideration of how we stand now. But if the Minister says that no fundamental questions have been asked about the economy on the part of the Chamber, at least he is failing in my input, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u35	That's right. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u36	'Cause I've been kind of basically critical. I have considered in particular the relations of power and the differences between the Rhineland-Palatinate economy, as we have known for a long time, and the Anglo-Saxon economy when it comes to the relationship of power between workers and capital. In replying to my written questions, the government says that it attaches importance to our Rhineland-Palatinate economy, in which there is a broader balance of interests between the management of companies for society, i.e. in which the interests of employees and capital are properly weighed. The Minister mentions a number of issues, such as the distribution of wealth, which would show that the economy is doing well, so that our Rhineland-Palatinate economy is still working.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u37	Do you come to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u38	Yes, it follows in the following sentence. When I look at the number of indicators, I have really different conclusions to draw. When I see that wages are lagging behind productivity growth, when I see that R&D expenditure is lagging behind, can I conclude that we are increasingly drifting towards an Anglo-Saxon economy? We are beginning to look more and more like the United Kingdom, where there are also large differences, where research spending is also lagging behind, and increasingly drifting away from an economy like Germany. Does the Minister for Economic Affairs recognise this trend?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u39	No. Because the gini coefficient shows that we don't derail in it. Long-term gross wages do keep pace with prosperity. It is in net wages, because a choice has been made between collective and individual. Maybe I can continue my speech on what is needed in terms of innovation for further prosperity growth. That's only very short. Then I have a few more questions in this block, among others from Mr Van der Lee and Mr Verhoeven. They have also asked questions in the economic sphere. I'll leave it to the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u40	Mr. Alkaya, will you wait and see?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u41	I don't rule out coming back to it, too. But I would also like to hear a little more from the Minister. The somewhat more fundamental view of the economy he is now presenting suggests that he is also monitoring that the interests of workers and capital, which are in balance in the Rhineland-Palatinate economy, remain in balance. But the Minister is singing praises for how things are going. When I ask a fundamental question back, he flinches back and says: well, that's not the case at all. Can I assume that the Minister also occasionally doubts the teachings of Milton Friedman, which he quoted in Summer Guests, and that he is also open to new insights into the economy and trends that still seem worrying?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u42	I come to Mr Alkaya's contribution, but I think that in this budget debate, more than in any previous year, I am more detailed than the Chamber itself has indicated what questions exist, what things need to be watched, where there are shadows and what is true or not. I myself said that we should keep an eye on this. It is true that I noticed in the meeting that the Chamber's economic observations were limited in number, but I informed my political assistant that Mr Alkaya of the SP did indeed make a fundamental argument. I even think that in his speech almost the rejection of the capitalist system was at issue. That has made him even more fundamental than I have. I have to do him justice in that. He has indeed raised this issue. In particular, I mentioned him afterwards as someone who noticed me who did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u43	Then there is a question from Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u44	I would simply like to congratulate the Minister on his comprehensive introduction and in particular his notion that prosperity and CO emissions must be decoupled and inescapable. Does he agree with me that, if you look at the most fundamental level of the problem, instead of energy scarcity and emissions, it is about material scarcity? Because fossil fuels are finite. Uranium is finite. Thorium is finite. Lithium for batteries is also finite. Crystalline silicon for solar panels is finite. The coils of windmills, special magnetic materials and rare earth metals are finite. Eventually everything is finite and therefore the most fundamental problem is the material scarcity. Does the Minister consider that the Netherlands is sufficiently committed to this issue and should we not rather look at the fundamental problem of the distribution of materials and the innovation of materials in terms of innovation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u45	On the last specific question, I invite Mr Bruins to develop his own ideas and share them with this cabinet and, above all, with the Secretary of State. With regard to the first, I would like to go a little less far. Now I'm gonna record it. That's also a november for Mr Van Raan. In the hierarchy, you can't put the scarcity of what's in the ground above the excess of what's in the atmosphere. I think that these are secondary problems and that we can find a problem of scarcity in both economic terms and we have to do justice to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u46	I appreciate the Minister's speech. I can very well follow his reasoning, but I cannot justify his policy. I also believe that welfare growth is needed, although it will have to be a different growth. I also share his analysis that this is necessary for public acceptance. Change will have to be seen as improvement and as progress, otherwise that change will not take place. Then I'll get to my point. Then why not opt for selective prosperity growth? Why not opt for selective burden reduction and why not link the reduction of charges to sustainability targets, employment, innovation and training? Why is this burden reduction being spread out over business as a hailshot?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u47	I don't recognize that. This year, education will be the largest intensified item in public expenditure. The largest is training and education stands at 2 billion in number two of additional spending in the public sector. They are sometimes instruments in which promotion is very selective in the tax sense, for example towards innovation. I do not know Mr Moorlag as a great supporter of the Innovation Box, but that is exactly one of those things. So that's what we're gonna do. Perhaps Mr Moorlag would make other choices. I'm not ruling that out. Here, lighting has been chosen in both the public sector and the private sector. I think that is justified, but perhaps Mr Moorlag would make different choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u48	A follow-up question from Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u49	I would certainly make other choices, because what the Minister describes as good is not good enough. There are a lot of vacancies. We do not sufficiently realise the sustainability objective. I would link this generic reduction to sustainability targets, employment targets, training targets and innovation targets. The profitability of companies is at a very high level and has been substantially restored. I don't understand why it's not more selective. Drugs are now being administered without a disease. In intensive livestock farming, the chicken farmers have long since been told that you simply mix antibiotics with the feed. There's just more selective surgery. In my opinion, the burden relief should also be granted more selectively. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to change the policy in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u50	That we are not yet there, I fully agree with Mr Moorlag. Because the things he's having trouble with are things that just occurred in the speech. So no, we're not there yet. We're never really there, because the moment we get there, there are new challenges again. I think he really needs to fight the changes he is aiming for in relation to the business package in the General Financial Reviews. That doesn't belong here, but I support the choices. I even think that you can tax the business more as the profits are more dubious, because then you actually say: once you don't make a profit, we have favourable rates here and once we do make a profit, it starts ticking. It's not gonna help us for a long time. So I'm in favour of that package. If Mr Moorlag disagrees with that, he must challenge that tax package in debates other than this debate. I assume that his colleague, Mr Nijboer, will have put that forward in the General Financial Reviews, but that is not the main topic of this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u51	Mr. Van Raan, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have agreed to place a total of ten questions on the directors. This is your sixth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u52	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u53	Okay. You're free to do that, but we have no misunderstandings about that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I have to say that I have failed if the Minister does not accept that we have also expressed serious systemic criticism and continue to express it. The question I have is next. It was just about a kind of contradiction between prosperity and CO emissions and also about the taking up of future generations and the large-scale destruction of the environment elsewhere. Could it also be the case, and that is question six: that together, the minister and we, we can work on the fact that prosperity may also be that you have security? Security of income, security that the planet doesn't break, certainty that it needs to be distributed fairly? In other words, there must be a change in awareness that prosperity is not in more stuff but that prosperity might be in more certainty about a good living environment and a good future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u55	I think the broad concept of prosperity that has been introduced shows that it is also wider. It's not that big a contradiction. Every Dutchman wants clean air, doesn't want to be woken by noise at night, wants there to be good health care. But to use one-dimensionally on collective facilities and not to offer their own wallet any more, other than the certainty that it will always stay the way it is, that is perhaps a preference that Mr Van Raan and his supporters and perhaps I myself can justify, but which is not true for many Dutch people. Because many Dutch people are in a slightly different, slightly less comfortable position than Mr Van Raan and I. They also have the right to speak, and they may wish to speak. And they want it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u56	Question seven. I do not see any differences there yet, but what I note is that, where the Minister says that the labour income ratio has been the same for years, which is still contradicted by the Dutch Bank, especially where it concerns sectors where flexible work has entered. This also has to do indirectly with certainty that you can offer people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u57	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u58	Can we agree on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u59	Sometimes I feel that saying yes to Mr Van Raan is a bit of a blank cheque. Let me put it in a way that the government has recognised in its coalition agreement that the balance between flex and firm needs to be taken into account. Mr Koolmees is taking steps there, recently too, so I do not think we are necessarily disagreeing on that. I note that the great advocate of the CO budget is very quickly through his questioning budget, and that is a pity, because I would hate to miss Mr Van Raan in the rest of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u60	Thank you for taking care of the members of the Chamber. That is, of course, also the responsibility of the President. Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u61	The Minister spoke about prosperity, prosperity growth and climate policy. "And-and," he said. Then I wonder if those two actually go together. I don't think so. A year ago, during the budget debate, the Minister said that all economic growth would go to climate policy and the energy transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u62	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u63	That's what he said. That is between EUR 7 and EUR 21 billion. Is it not true that climate policy is at the expense of prosperity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u64	It is good that Mr Kops gives me the opportunity to explain this misunderstanding one more time, because it is exactly the other way around. I'm gonna explain it a little simple. Economic growth means putting a slice on top of the size of the economy that remains in the rest of the years. So if we were at 100 last year, we're at 103 this year. Next year, it won't evaporate 103, but maybe three more and we'll be 106. Well, of that 6 or that 9 or whatever... That could be up to 30% by 2030. Of that 30% by 2030, 0,5%, 1/60th of that growth is sufficient to cover the climate forecast until 2030. The other 29.5% we are going to talk about in this Chamber. There are plenty of things to come up with. There are plenty of wishes. Care, infrastructure, defense; there are a lot of things to come up with, but this slice is very limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u65	A follow-up question from Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u66	Thanks for the answer. Then I'm gonna do it real simple. In reply, the Minister himself writes, I quote: "Companies are expected to pass on the costs to their customers where possible. Subsidies must be paid from tax sources. The costs are ultimately borne by society in one way or another, and that is all of us." Then it's just that because of the energy transition, as a result of climate policy, people simply have less to spend and less left in their wallets?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u67	Well, then I'm gonna try to do it one more time. Let's say we're at 100 in gross domestic product today and 130 in 2030. Then we are going to spend 129.5% on all the nice things we want and 0.5% on the climate. The word "less" must be taken here with pounds of salt, Mr. Kops. We should be pleased with that because, I say in the direction of Mr Kops, he and I stand for the realization that Dutch people simply want more in their own pockets for good reasons, with awareness of all the needs in the public and private sector. Not because they're greedy, but because they have desires in terms of living, in terms of whatever. That's what they get as long as the economy keeps going. I say to him that if we put that 30% at risk and get rid of it by not wanting to invest that 0.5%, that penny wise is pound foolish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u68	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mr. Chairman. Then we come to a cold observation, at least warm to the Chamber but cold to myself. If we want prosperity to grow, then the buttons and levers lie mainly with the Secretary of State. I have been delighted to see how the room next to me conducts policies that contribute to this growth in all kinds of ways, including in a way that we can do so sustainably and do justice to the concerns that exist. I have read the SME Agenda with pleasure. I'm a big fan of the Technics Pact behind the scenes. She and I share a beta passion. I think that the Technics Pact deserves a compliment; the more, the better. This digitalisation strategy takes advantage of this. I believe that Mr Moorlag asked whether innovation does not deserve a further push. Or maybe it was Mr. Alkaya. Who am I shorting? In any case, I refer to the new top sectors policy, in which we say not only that we need to innovate, but that we also say, in Mr Moorlag's words, that we need to innovate more selectively. We need to focus innovation more on societal challenges with growth potential. That's what we do. In the room next to me there is a bigger contribution to that than what I can drum myself with, but I am very proud of it. Mr Van der Lee mentioned other concerns. He called on me to make an analysis of activities in the Netherlands, particularly China. This concerns the atmosphere of takeovers, but also the atmosphere of things that are not allowed, so to speak. I would like to convince Mr Van der Lee that the cabinet is very intensive in both areas, without me being able to explain everything about it. This is very serious in the area of trade and takeovers. There is an update of the so-called China strategy. There, too, Mr Becker and Mr Amhaouch's motion on unfair commercial practices and the commitment to also address the development of military capacity in China. But it also plays a role in the bill on unwanted control in telecommunications and it can have far-reaching consequences. We in Europe are in favour of adapting the State aid framework. This State aid framework now applies within European parties; it is intra-European. Spain should not grant State aid to parties which penalise the Netherlands, but that does not apply to third parties. Chinese companies that really come here with a backpack full of state aid can do all kinds of things. It would not be surprising if the State aid framework also saw this in the future. Those are things we're thinking about. It's being worked on very intensively. I can't explain everything, but what I can do, I'd rather do when I can explain it. The China Strategy, which will be published in spring 2019, is an example of this. Mr Verhoeven asked a question on vital technologies which covers both the portfolio of the Secretary of State and mine. As the Netherlands, we benefit from an open investment and innovation environment, but geopolitical power shifts do impose demands and conditions. The promotion of key technologies at European level, I might mention 5G, but in a grey past, we could have contributed agriculture and GPS to the strategic independence of third countries. This is anchored in a variety of programmes such as Horizon 2020 and its successor. I call the candidates artificial intelligence, quantum and blockchain. Another part of Mr Verhoeven's question belongs in the answer given by the Secretary of State. So much for the economic block, before I switch to climate and energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u70	That is possible after Mr Verhoeven has asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u71	I thought it was a nice introduction from the Minister. It was a picture, but I was more looking for a movie myself. At the end of his introduction he returns to the future issues. I am thinking of all kinds of emerging technologies and the competitiveness of the Netherlands, but also of the security position of the Netherlands and the European Union. I would like to hear from the Minister about the way in which this cabinet looks at what I have called "a strategic technology agenda." I believe that we need to think about how new technologies and all kinds of digital innovations in the world are going to create shifting relationships, both economically and geopolitically and militaryly, and how we, as the Netherlands, but also as the European Union, want to behave in this respect. Alkaya and Van der Lee also mentioned the issue of dependence, both economically and economically, our companies are still at the forefront? As well as in the sense of a vital infrastructure. How deep are Chinese and Russian companies in our infrastructure, for example in the roll-out of 5G? I would like to hear more about this from this minister in this fundamental block, which he has blown up. I'm really looking forward to that. How are we going to fight these technological power shifts in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u72	I didn't blow up this piece and I didn't want to blow it up either, because there are still a lot of things to come. We are busy with this, both in the field of takeovers and in the field of state aid and competition, and in the field of critical components, for example in our telecoms, mention 5G components. We are therefore very busy with this in many areas, and I do not feel so compelled to go there on behalf of, I believe, eight directors who have not yet been fully thought out. I think that's a little heavy. I tried not to blow up this piece, but to point out that there is still a lot going on there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u73	I can understand that. In fact, the Minister says: this is a very important, large theme...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u74	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u75	... which we are working on and which we are also seriously looking at various aspects and dimensions. That reassures me somewhat. I am also standing here to check the cabinet, and I am doing so now in the Economic Affairs budget. I think this is rather economical, so I should not be completely dismissed by saying 'well, Mr Verhoeven, just wait and see what else is going to happen'. The Secretary of State, said the Minister, has a part in this too. The Minister mentioned my question as the only one that touched both directors. If the Secretary of State has anything else to say about that, I'm fine with that. Otherwise, in the second term, I will come back to it with a more specific question, looking for a yes or no. Is the cabinet going to take certain steps towards D66? Otherwise, I feel like I'm not doing my job right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u76	The minister with his reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u77	In that sense, Mr Verhoeven's question was not a question that hits two portfolios, but some eight. The cabinet is so serious and led by the Prime Minister that it would be almost wrong to try to serve all the dishes prematurely on the basis of one question. Let's see what's the second term way to make agreements here about what and when.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u78	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u79	I wanted to go to climate and energy. I'm going to keep that a little short on some points. This has already been done in writing. We spoke very extensively last week, of course, on the basis of the forthcoming climate agreement. We can talk about that for a long time. The readings differed a bit here, but whether you think it is enough or not, at least there is a proposal at the level of technical measures, not at the level of instrumentation, but at the level of technical measures. The aim of this proposal is to ensure that it is cost-effective. Instrumentation, politically even more complicated, must be put together in the second half. I have also said that the CO levy would inevitably play a role in this. Mr Van Raan and Mr Van der Lee have already mentioned this. I have nothing to add to what I said about this last time. The linea recta introduces a proposal from De Nederlandsche Bank in one go, but the steps in the form of a possible additional toolbox in different sectors are now being worked out. We're gonna see what that is. The tone of...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u80	But that leads to a question from Mr Van der Lee. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u81	I was just looking for a moment when I could ask this question. It goes a little bit wider than the CO levy, which I am very much in favour of. I expect a nice effect when there is an agreement. But now it's about the mechanism. How do we ensure that we raise justice? I just wanted to make one comment. We have had this discussion more often, and then the opposition is accused: you are not allowed to conduct income policies within climate and energy policy. I would ask the Minister to reflect on the choices this cabinet has made this year. In order to reduce income tax, climate and energy policies have chosen to reduce a return on energy taxation. This had nothing to do with energy and climate policy; it was purely based on income policy. Do you acknowledge that the cabinet itself does what it blames the opposition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u82	No. What we are doing there is trying to reduce the burden on labour. This is a wish which I have discussed in detail with other members of Mr Van der Lee's party, even in the previous period. There was a fairly Chamber-wide desire to make work pay more for everyone. This step is also a contribution to this, because there is ultimately a backlock in income tax. As a result, we can make it a little more attractive for more people to get back to work or, on the other hand, we can reward people when they go to work more for that. That's the background.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u83	A follow-up question from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u84	I understand. We can have another discussion as to whether that motive is justified or not. That's not what I'm talking about. I am concerned that an external argument, other than climate and energy policy, should be taken into account in the context of income policy. But then we have to be able to do it the other way around. If we think it should be more equitable, we can also pursue income policy within climate and energy policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u85	Look, in order to make work pay or to conduct income policies, you can imagine measures in all kinds of areas, including energy. But that does not mean that you are pursuing income policies in the field of climate and energy. It means that with all the measures you make sure that you come to an appropriate income picture. I would be opposed if we were to find solutions to cost-sharing strictly within the domain of climate and energy. It is much more practical, much more efficient and much clearer to do so at the level of the income picture as a whole. That doesn't mean you can do things in all kinds of domains. All I'm saying is that strictly closing the picture within the climate and energy domain is a very absurd method. Similarly, I always oppose the view that there is such a thing as energy poverty. If there's poverty, there's poverty, but it's not on one thing. That needs to be looked at as a whole. I'm in favour of that. The Netherlands has a long tradition in this. It's all known. There are always very clear political differences compared to those in other countries. In the most varied coalitions, like the previous ones, we always come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u86	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u87	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin, within climate and energy, with a rather constructive and sincere point of concern from Mr Van der Lee. He has said, a bit as a question but also as a concern: is there enough progress? There's two sides to that. Did something happen? And is the instruments sufficiently focused on providing security and progress? I've taken care of him again after all. As far as I am concerned, this question must be asked every year, because that is actually what budgetary treatment is: are we doing this right? I do not feel that I can really go along with Mr Van der Lee in this. He mentioned a number of things. The first was the SDE. Well, the opening-up of budgets in '17 and '18 was phenomenal. We have opened up EUR 12 billion. I would like to add that I have good hopes that in the autumn round of the SDE, which closes this week and which we will soon know about, a large number of projects have been submitted and there is a large number of applications. We'll see. Let's wait and see before we reach a verdict. The SDE is an international best practice. There's been quite a few things going on. I'll list some things later. I just put the thermometer in. I specifically look at two messages. The first is that I do not distract from the sale of panels alone that there is a hesitation there. In the first half of 2018 we have another record with solar panels. In response to Mrs Mulder, I have made two statements. There's a shared concern. I do not entirely exclude myself from those who feel responsible for this and have concerns about it. Is there uncertainty now? Here we are working on an arrangement in which the payback period is no longer used. It should stay attractive for a while. That is clearly the purpose. It is not the aim to make the content less attractive than it has always been with the seven years of payback. It is explicitly the aim to only change form. It is not intended that the payback period due to things that we cannot influence in this domain suddenly becomes four years. That's too gritty. Not because we don't find four years attractive, but because other things are made less attractive. A four-year payback is of course something that everyone loves. Only then something else becomes less attractive because you can only spend that one euro in the public domain once; in the private domain too, by the way. That's the goal. I'm gonna say this one more time, and I'm gonna do it to both of you. Mrs Mulder introduced Mr Van der Lee twice in asking for this confirmation. Mr Van der Lee also mentioned the postcode rose. The postcode rose was never the most popular boy in the class. In theory, it was all beautiful. It was the teacher's favorite, but with the other kids, it never worked like that. There was never much interest in it. It was much less than we intended. The postcode rose serves a purpose that we all support. I call it support and collective initiatives. Therefore, it is important to investigate whether that postcode rose can be integrated into that new return subsidy. That would make it a more manageable and more understandable mechanism. Before I suggest to the President that an interruption should take place, I would like to draw attention to the second side of the matter. We see a race at the panels. In 2017, we saw 4,300 MW of applications for solar projects. In 2016 the solar energy stood at 6.7 petajoule and we are now at almost 9. Wind at sea stood at 900 MW in 2017. Now there's 2,200 MW in the tender alone. That is clearly progress. We have a series of laws, regulations and regulations from the FAT to the gas closure obligation. For all these things, I must compliment the Chamber more than myself. I really have the feeling that the image that's behind something isn't right. Are we there yet? Not a single piece! There is consensus on this, but I believe that the arrangements that exist are being used and that the agenda is being put to an end. It takes a lot more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u88	That is the reason for a question by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the comprehensive answer. I didn't say nothing was going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u90	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u91	I said that the impact of what we are doing is not much more than compensating for the extra emissions from economic growth. I see that there could be more within the policy. There's room because there's underexhaustment. That is why I have made a number of suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u92	That's what I'm getting at, but I don't want to interrupt the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u93	Oh, but let's treat that right away, otherwise I've lost an interruption, and that's a shame too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u94	Name it! name it! name it! name
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u95	It's about the smaller windmills up to 1 MW. They are currently excluded because the postcode rose scheme has become uncertain. There is no separate possibility in the SDE, because you need a basic amount for such a project that is slightly higher. My fear is that the major projects will prevail. You can see that in the sun; it is the companies that build massive solar panels, and I welcome that. But also on wind it is the big projects, with the big mills. A mixed park with large and small mills doesn't exist and nobody comes asking for it, really. That's what the market says, and I checked it on all sides; nobody's gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u96	The question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u97	Why not create room for a scheme for windmills, possibly for parks of which up to 1 MW? They have a slightly higher basic amount, but an amount that is always lower than that of sun.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u98	Perhaps the Minister can answer this question in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u99	I just got here. Ai! I come to the point, but Mr Van der Lee also deserves my attention now. He also raised a point that was not in his brochure. It wasn't one of the six points, but it was a good idea. That was led. Look, it's sometimes said "low-hanging fruit doesn't exist anymore," but this is low-hanging fruit. He's absolutely right about that. Led is actually the norm. It just has to be. I have indicated it in a written reply, but I would like to stress once again: yes, there is still a low level of fruit. At the point of the small windmills the following. Look, logic here is always that if you don't adjust the basic amounts, it won't be attractive for small windmills. That's right. However, we have deployed together, also given the scarcity of funds in the SDE, on actually most petajoules for our grant money. And that doesn't happen with small windmills. That's not the route. If it is possible for the basic amount, then that is wonderful, but if we keep saying "Oh dear, this technique is not eligible given the basic amounts," then we are always giving the less efficient options priority over the efficient options. No, for the most difficult and complicated roofs that are least eligible, it will not be attractive. The smaller windmills will run against the bigger ones. But, of course, it is our goal to deal with our money as efficiently as possible because we just don't have any more. This is the budget. This is what it has to do, and I intend to do it for this. If we keep putting inefficient options in the front and more efficient behind, it won't happen. Then it won't work. So it's not like I don't want any more; I don't want any less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u100	The Minister and I agree that we want to make the most efficient use of these resources for the highest possible renewable energy generation. At the same time, I believe that we also agree that it is very important that people feel good about this whole transition to renewable energy. Then it is precisely those smaller stuffed windmills that make neighborhoods happy, because one can invest in them together and because they are not huge, so that the landscape is acceptable. I have the feeling that we are leaving behind an opportunity here to create support and, at the same time, to exploit under-exhaustment on the SDE budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u101	I think the word "underexhaustment" is... If there was actually a surplus of SDE money, then we had the luxury to afford all kinds of trips. But just because there's underexhaustment now doesn't mean there's money left. It just means that the pace is different from the rate we had anticipated in the estimate. So it's not like we're in our jacket. We're in the SDE tight in our jacket. That cut force us to do the things that are most efficient. The word "huggy windmills" is used, but there have been numerous windmill projects of such size that neighbors have not experienced it as hugging. Only now we're looking at other sizes through the scaling-up. So I don't think that term is entirely appropriate. But look, we just need to keep an eye on the budget. It is always appealing to all kinds of people, who also report to a large extent to your mailbox, to relax all kinds of arrangements, but soon the money is gone and we have not achieved the goals. The planning agency says it's possible it's affordable. I also have a great deal of responsibility for this to Mr Kops, and he is right to do so. Yes, it has to be with the most efficient route, but that means you don't have to do some things and others do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u102	However, just a few more moments on this point. I hear the minister right and I get it. At the same time, we have also seen in the past, with the same directive of the greatest possible CO reduction at the best price, that a lot of money went into the addition of biomass in coal plants. I would like to avoid putting us in a situation where people are offering themselves with beautiful projects and those projects are going to die because we are again opting for the cheapest investments. Can the Minister guarantee that it really goes to clean energy and renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u103	But there's something else going on here. This contribution is not about large versus small windmills at all, but about Mr Sienot's understandable concerns about biomass. Let's talk about that when we talk about biomass. It is not the case that we are now saying that we should opt for small windmills, because on second thought we have changed our thinking about biomass. Let me refer to biomass when it comes to biomass. Let me say here that we are opting for an efficient interpretation at the moment. Let us wait for the state of under-spending or the results of the SDE until the results of the autumn round are there. Mr Van der Lee and I will both look into this with study. I am sure that Mr Sienot is part of this, because he is ultimately in favour of cost-efficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u104	I also have a question about the small windmills. A large number of replacement investments are needed for older windmills. They would like to do so, but they just need a push in the back. Is that what the Minister wants to look at? Because it is a pity that we lose renewable energy at once when those old windmills are no longer working. For those newer windmills, which are smaller, there is no room. Is the Minister prepared to look at this at least with the new scheme, so that we do not lose it as renewable energy, and thus also the reduction of CO emissions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u105	I remember, but not exactly enough, that we once talked about the issues of replacing the older mills and that we came to a line there, but I do not remember that line. So can I save this for round two? Let me find out what our policy is or should be with regard to replacing the older and smaller mills, whether we actually have a problem and what the solution would be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u106	Thank you for this, but I also agree with what my colleagues have just said. If you come together with a number of inhabitants, whether that's a village or a neighborhood, to that smaller mill, how can you make that attractive? On the contrary, I would encourage us to have an eye for it if people together put their shoulders on it and have broad support for it. Whether it should be in SDE+ or in the other scheme. Would the Minister like to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u107	I understand the question. I will return to that in the second term. I meant it before, but I'll have to check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u108	I am concerned, because some of the issues raised by the Minister are correct in his system reality, but in their work and the experience of the citizens, they are, to my liking, seriously affecting their acceptance. When it comes to the netting system, there are concerns about village houses and sports associations, because they are going to make the payback period for their investment much longer. At the heat grids you can see that they are linked to the gas price. The gas price is going up. People ask how this is possible: they are connected to a heat grid, but now their rate is rising in the wake. If we project wind farms of about 150 megawatts and it becomes 175.5, what is happening now in Drenthe Monden and Oostermother, then it just isn't going well with the support. Is the Minister aware of all the fall-out, of all the side effects that affect the support base, and is he willing to just look at it carefully and thoroughly? Quite specifically: is he willing to bring the Windpark Drentse Monden back to about 150?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u109	I'll get to that. The first question was put by Mr Moorlag. I come to the point, but we now have another issue, namely the design of the SDE. I'll come back to this later under the heading of support. I can say that, as governments, we have not acted the most conveniently in the case of Drentse Monden.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u110	I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u111	We certainly wouldn't do that right now. I would like to look Mr Moorlag straight in the eye: before people think otherwise, I would like to stress that it is precisely not the intention to extend the payback period. That's not the point. It should not become more unattractive, it should not become more unattractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u112	I'll come back to this. Thank you to colleagues for their critical questions about this. The fact is that the wind on land is very bad. We have to go to 6,000 megawatts, we just realized half of it. The number of turbines placed in the Netherlands is falling. We grow very light in power, because some larger turbines are put in place. It is crucial to support small mills in certain locations, because that is the only way to obtain permits locally. So I urge the Minister to respond to my argument that these small windmills are more cost-effective than the solar projects. He ignores that all the time, because he considers cost-effectiveness important, but wind on land is still very cost-effective compared to other forms of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u113	Let me just take this to my second term and link it to the replacement of the existing windmills. Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u114	I think that's a good idea. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u115	I was with the ideas of GroenLinks. We discussed the postcode rose. His ideas are three and four: I am trying to get Mr Van der Lee's attention, and I am talking about the energy savings loans and the construction of the charging points. I brought it to the attention of BZK, because it's primarily there. Next week there will be an AO energy saving, in which this could be discussed. On the tables of the built environment there is a detailed examination of the financing possibilities, also for vve's with less than ten homes. I think we're in agreement that if the funding doesn't work out, we have an empty shell. I'm afraid I'm gonna say that. The exemption from public charging stations. The question is whether we really have a problem there. Mr Van der Lee proposed extending the exemption granted by the previous Secretary of State for Finance until 2025. Anything can be done, but that will require the approval of the European Commission, because you are, in a way, granting state aid. All of that could be possible. But I do not see clearly why this is the solution to a major problem. When we introduced the tariff, it was because the sector indicated that the business cases of the loading posts would not have improved until after 2020. You can continue any temporary arrangement. It is always nice for people not to worry about total affordability, but to focus on your own thing and to say: that must now be stimulated. That is very attractive, but I do have a responsibility to monitor the whole of it and to solve problems with public money only if there are problems. I don't see them that clearly around here. The Green Project Scheme is really the domain of the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Water State, but also of Finance. I'll pass that on to them, along with the rest of the plan. That may have happened already, but I will personally pay attention to it during lunch on Friday, so that they can get hold of it. Mr Sienot asks about the bulkheads. There, too, we must distinguish between the systematic and the possible need for exceptions at times when this need arises. In the direction of Mr Sienot, I say: the beauty of SDE and its effectiveness are, of course, hidden in the absence of bulkheads. However, you can discover at some point that you are at your tax with a certain technique. There are sufficient parties in this society which, in fact, are not only concerned with the duration of CCS, but who would also like to set limits. It may indeed be that you say at some point: everything is nice and nice, but we have reasons other than cost-effectiveness to set a certain limit. It could be. That is not the issue at the moment, because there is not yet a surplus of CCS...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The same thing you would say: let's not produce so much renewable at a time when that all goes to export. That could happen. I say: let's temporize it; let's set a limit to it somehow or put a shot there. I can imagine that Mr Sienot himself might have wishes, for example, at one time, when this occurs in the direction of so-called biomass, but the beauty of the SDE lies in the absence of bulkheads. That's how the instrument works. Scots are not impossible, and sometimes they are even desirable, but the general principle we really have to keep up, otherwise it becomes a bit of a hobby pot. And then we're gonna vote together on what we like best and then cost-effectiveness is no longer the guiding principle. That's gonna cost us a lot of money. I mentioned a few examples in the debate last week where, if we were to do a little less of this and a little less of that, we would lose tens of billions more a year in 2050. That shouldn't happen to us. That is the understanding that I wanted to check with Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u116	Mr Sienot, fifth question from the D66 Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm turfing too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u118	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u119	I'll follow the clarity the Minister outlined here. I also see another development, namely that a kind of technology develops at different speeds, is in different stages of life. What you want is that you prefer to stimulate that technology, or at least really give it a chance to grow, because it is a great promise for a future with truly clean, renewable energy. We see the risk, and we also hope the Minister, that if you stick to this directive alone those growth-brilliants will be lost. Doesn't the Minister want to lose those growth-brilliants, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u120	That's where we'll really find each other. The SDE is really meant for techniques in the growth phase, but if you focus only on things that are now ripe for large scale roll-out and not on other things, then you are doing yourself enormous short. For example, we cannot yet honour hydrogen and CCS in the SDE. There we must act in other ways as a stimulus. That is what we have the envelope for, and that is what we have the whole innovation policy for. I very much agree with Mr Sienot that we really need to look at what 2050 are the techniques that we need, and that we need to guide them at every stage so that that growth will come. I very much agree with him. I also very much agree with his proposal to discuss with parties in the ICT sector and with BZK the use of residual heat from the ICT sector, from servers and server parks. I will work with the Minister of BZK to see how this resource can be appreciated in the building rules for new buildings and in the sustainability report for heat supply. That's important. I don't mean to say this is all low-hanging fruit, but it is fruit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u121	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u122	This is about the instruments. Then I come to the important point of acceptance, and for that I really want to start with Mr Moorlag's question. It actually asks how we are going to learn from the past in building trust. Well, that's quite a job, but we can use a lot of lessons from it, among other things the lessons we learned from the first tranche, of which we see in Drenthe the wretched results. First of all, it is important to seek advice from local authorities before a preferred alternative is established. The bulldozer approach doesn't deserve a price. Also, the use of the State Coordination Instrument is much more appropriate if it is used to confirm the outcome of agreements between governments than when you first pave the way and then wonder where the road should actually be. We've seen that work several times. We're doing things differently now, but those lessons are central. But still, not everyone will appreciate that. In the energy agreement the goal of the 6,000 MW is on land. I have sent a letter on this to the Chamber saying that I may have reached 5 700 MW at the time of the deadline. This has also been very, very strongly drawn regionally. That is a huge achievement of provinces, because that has proved to be far more difficult than we thought. That's much harder. I don't think we can grow at the same rate either. At some point, you're at a border, too. That is why a large-scale use of wind at sea is also understandable. But we have to do it differently than in the past. One of the instruments involved is the instrument that Mrs Mulder is asking for, namely the framework conditions for regional energy strategies and the participation of residents and businesses. The regional energy strategies are a result of the experiences we had before. You must first talk to the region about the region and not in a different order. It is also important that the regions involve the people. That is about these conditions. It is the local authorities that are at the forefront, because they have an insight into what is going on, but we have to focus on ensuring that regional authorities pay attention to their support and their assurance in the plans. There must be an active involvement of residents. That has a certain duration and it should be given. The formal participation is only the final part of that participation. In that case, there must have been a whole route ahead of it. That must be secured in the environmental visions et cetera. But we are now working on putting together this residual method to make sure that people actually participate, otherwise it becomes a paper tiger or even a wash nose. Mrs Mulder also asked if we could find inspiration for this in the Space for the River programme. Yes, there are now even people working in the department who have previously participated in the Space for the River programme. That is actually a very good project in general terms. The spatial impact was sometimes enormous, but that was done in a neat way. What lessons do we learn from that? It has been a bottom-up approach with local authorities, business and civil society organisations. Before the bulldozer of the government had to go over that, they made a balance between space, costs and impact. That's what you'd like to strive for here. So you can almost say that there is a model for that in a sense. Mr Sienot asked how we would support the regions. That's part of what's in the climate envelope. That includes green deals. There is an expertise center heat. There will be a guide for municipalities. And we must, of course, ensure that these regional energy strategies are implemented in some way in cooperation with the Empire. I am also in contact with regional authorities. Mr Sienot also asked if I share the ambition to lead the field of green hydrogen. There is no competition going on around the world or between regions. But it is clear that this will most likely become part of the energy supply of the future. This is not only about hydrogen as raw material, but also as an energy carrier and storage capacity. The first thing is that we must focus on cost reduction and innovation. That's what's in the cabinet juice that's been sent. That's really stage one. It's not a roll-out technique; it's a development technique. I made no secret of seeing opportunities for Groningen at that stage too. It is also done within the framework of the Groningen National Programme, not only but also. We could therefore also contribute to this from that angle. Mrs Yeşilgöz has asked if I can ensure that people can go to an objective information body; call it a window of opportunity. Mrs Mulder has asked a question that is a bit off. She asked if I would be willing to set up a climate policy hotline. Actually, they're window questions. In addition, there are always two things that we always agree on in this Chamber. First, we say, "People have to be able to go somewhere." Then we always come up with hotlines, points of contact or agencies, or centres of knowledge before that, but I am still on board at the point of contact and the authorities. Then we find, usually in another debate, that there is a multitude of points of contact, and we say: has the Empire not forgotten the one-stop-shop idea? So I'm always a little hesitant about setting up new counters. What do we got now? There's the information on Environment Central, with Improve your home. The municipalities have an important role to play in the district-oriented approach, and the regional authorities in the RES, with which we also come to people. There will of course be a broad public campaign. Of course, we have the National Ombudsman for other questions. The Space in Rules programme is also a window where businesses can go. I think we should look at how we can respond to the different needs of companies and people with a little more thought. I myself think that these are very different moments for very different needs. If a central heating boiler fails, that's a different kind of information requirement than when the municipality comes along and says: we're off the gas in eight years. Those are very different moments. I think we need to look at how we are doing this in a nuance, even when it comes to the results of the climate agreement. So I am not pre-empting the idea that an additional hotline or an additional information service would be the solution. But I am eager to see that we must communicate with action for each moment and be able to answer questions. That's the lake. I would see these points as homework. We all see that something has to be done, but does it have to take the form of something extra or does it have to be different? I just need to think about that. I see the need, but I also see that we will be standing here in a year's time and saying, "God, there are a lot of counters; can we not do one window?" Mr Moorlag has asked a question which I believe he has asked before and to which I have already replied, in my opinion benevolent, but perhaps not clear enough. He asked if we would be willing, for example with the SCP, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, to examine the socio-cultural challenges of the energy transition. The answer is explicitly yes. I will involve that in the work that has already begun. It also has to do with civic participation, so it must also be seen in that context. Mr. Chairman. Another point of support is Mr Moorlag's specific question on Drenthe Monden. The question he asked was raised by the fact that 150 MW has always been mentioned. I think it is. To the best of my ability to reconstruct it, this has popularly gone over the tongue as something of a 150 MW project. As far as I know, it was not a "maximum 150 MW" project, but a 150 MW project. The project has a very long history. It started at least in 2012. At that time 250 MW was mentioned in the first mares. In 2013, it was once said that it is between 150 MW and 185 MW. Then there was talk of 50 mills. Now that the route is over, we have reached 45 mills, between 2.3 MW and 4.2 MW. With that, the set-up power is somewhere between 103 and 189. The initiator himself has now said that it is 3.9 MW per turbine. Then you come to 175.5. However, it is problematic to say, after the outcome of this procedure, where there have been legal proceedings, that we do not do so. This is the result of something that has been before us all along and which has been looked at very thoroughly. So if you did this, you would have to withdraw seven wind turbines from the environmental permit. You'll have to vote them out. In fact, you must in one way or another withdraw the environmental plans and the incorporation plans that have been assessed by the Supreme Court and have become irrevocable with the judgment of the Council of State of 21 February 2018. Actually, you're telling parties yourself: if you have a license with this government, you don't actually have a license, because it can all be revoked. We then turn ourselves away as an extremely unreliable government, while the documents have not only always been before us, but have also been decided on by the highest authorities. If you do that, you'll get a new appeal. In addition, with the sustainable task, you have raised an even bigger problem. I think we should learn a different lesson. Now that the highest bodies in our country have given their opinion on this matter, I consider this procedure to be complete. What I would like to say is that we would do this really differently now. The current way of working is really different. This is simply not a happy example, to say the least. That is also felt in the region. I've been talking about that in that county. They are also unhappy with this, but this has now been confirmed to the highest level. I think that the way to deal with this is to draw lessons from it explicitly. They're also in the new approach. And there too we will discover that there is still a need for adjustment, because we are always learning new things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u123	This is symptomatic, I think. In the system reality this is true. The Minister says that in people's perception the figure of 150 MW was circulating at some point. But it wasn't just in people's persuasiveness. It was the minister's predecessor who reduced the remit for that area. There have been national publications stating that this would be a wind farm of approximately 150 MW. There is an opinion from the Commission for the m.e.r. which states that if larger turbines are chosen, you can get around 150 MW with fewer turbines. Surely it is not possible for the minister in the parking lot to wave friendlyly and push on the horn and then drive away? That's impossible, isn't it? It may be legally correct in itself, but if you stack up everything you can say that the outcome is that there is about 150 previewed, but that it is now over 175. I think that the Minister, regardless of whether he has the powers to do so, should still see if he can rectify this. I assume he has that authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u124	Now something is being done lightly about the way things are going. People who are competent and trained for this and who are appointed to do so in independence, have looked at this in a broad and weighted way to the highest level. The way in which Mr Moorlag is going is far too light for me. No, it's not like we've put some kind of automatic machinery into operation here and everyone has blindly stamped this. This has been weighed in all kinds of ways. The bandwidths are in place. I think we have to agree that this should not be the case again, but that this route can now be seen as no different than completed. I think we have to agree that this should not be the case again, but also that this route can now be regarded as complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u125	Then to the more generic. Because how are we going to prevent this in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u126	Right. That's the right question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u127	That is a separate question from whether I am satisfied with what the Minister is replying to here on the specific issue. How are we going to do it in the future? I listened very carefully to the Minister, also in an earlier AO. He said, "We should see if we can get the Social and Cultural Planning Office involved." My question in the first period was to make it wider. We all have tables with technicians, but we don't have a table with behavioral scientists or people looking at how we can organise these kinds of processes properly. My request was that the Minister do this. I also asked whether the authorities would be sufficiently able to make this happen. We are getting signals from the UNG that the resources for RES processes are not sufficient and that there is no clear ownership of these regional energy strategies. Where is the democratic legitimacy taking place? Those are all questions that need answers. That is not necessary, but I would like there to be a coherent approach. Does the Minister share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u128	Yeah, I'll share that. Whether I should call that a table or something else, Mr Moorlag will be a concern, but I do share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u129	How?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u130	The suggestion put forward by Mr Moorlag himself was to set up a separate arrangement with the parties in order to do so. I think he mentioned it himself as a table to make sure that we look at it in the broadest sense. I'll support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u131	It's gonna be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u132	One of our scarce resources is support. We all see that. That doesn't get any better in the energy domain. Any form of energy generation or conversion has now become contaminated. Everything's bothering us. That burden is there, too. There's no denying that. Energy generation causes loads, such as visual impairment, noise and in the past dirty air. The downsides are shifting. We're getting less dirty air, but we're getting more visual impairment. That's a fact. We have no choice but to pay attention to that. We need to do that more and more. People are getting more critical about that. People accept less. They accept less forms of energy. We can see that. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan het hierover eens zijn met de heer Moorlag en de toezegging doen dat er iets voor wordt ingericht in die breedte.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u133	That's clear. Mrs Mulder has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u134	I really think it's a hell of a lot for the people in the peat colonies. You're presented with 150 megawatts, but then that bandwidth changes enormously, to 175 megawatts. For the total task in Drenthe this is also a relatively high percentage. So you're still gonna be higher than you've been talked about every time. I would ask the Minister whether he would like to put on the table once again with the proposers of the plan how hard this is going to be for the inhabitants. It would appear to the proposers of this plan of empathy to be aware of what is going on in the peat colonies. It's not just gone for a second. They could really take another step towards the future for the inhabitants. I would like to ask the Minister, through the chairman, if he would like to have another conversation with them. I'm also going to see if we can call the petitioners directly from the Lower House to talk to the residents. Because this is not the way we should work with each other. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u135	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u136	One thing I'd like to answer, but one other thing in advance. I am so informed that there have always been ranges in the documents that have been at all stages of views and that there has never been a final result of 150 anywhere in the procedure. I think there have been ranges in this, both in terms of power per mill and in terms of number. That number has been reduced throughout the course of events. However, as I have been informed, it is not the case that 150 has been authorised and that someone then said 'we are only going to do 175' without that being known. What I do see is that the basis for this is bad for each other. That's a fact. What I don't want to do... I also have the reliability of the government to defend. The government is often inherently unreliable, because it is free to make other decisions; that is what we are for. But that doesn't make us more reliable. In this case, in this procedure, I would not want to create an unique situation by somehow obstructing it. What I do want to do is, at Mrs Mulder's request, to pass on this concern to the party that deals with it. She undoubtedly has other ways of expressing them, but I will draw them to me. But I don't want to make a move to break into procedures. We really can't; then we turn the government into a windvane. It can't be. We have a course of justice here to the supreme organs. So I want to guide the Acts of this with great love. I am sure that Mrs Mulder will see other means of expressing this opinion and letting the operator know. But I really cannot, and I also ask for understanding, to set a precedent by breaking into a procedure that has gone to the supreme organs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u137	Is this enough for the moment? Another follow-up question from Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u138	This has all been incredibly difficult over the past few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u139	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u140	That is why, in my view, agreements have been made, including with the province and with the proposers of the plan to look at some sort of regional fund. I am curious to see what further developments are taking place there. It may also be answered in the second period. But I hope that stays in the hallway, because otherwise you really get more windmills than you expected, more megawatts, and you don't get that concession on the other side. So I'd like to be sure about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u141	The suggestion of doing so in the second term, I would like to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u142	Clear. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u143	Then we get to the point of biomass. Several questions have been asked about this, which in itself are already a cascade. I came up with a logical order. That was not the order of the questions, but a logical order in the answer. Mrs Akerboom asked a question about the use of biomass in general. Mr Bruins then asked an extremely important question, which I believe is particularly relevant to electricity supply. Mrs Akerboom then asked how the sustainability framework would be drawn up, and she asked another question about wood-burning. I wanted to answer those questions in that order, because that is the most useful explanation. I will start with Mrs Akerboom's question on how I see this high-quality use of biomass. Of biomass, we certainly have no surplus in the world. The Netherlands, as a country that now wants to lead the 49% target, also has a certain responsibility not to eat the biomass of the whole world as a kind of glutton, then to get rid of the problem and to think that we saved the earth. That doesn't give a pass. So we are well aware of the fact that biomass can be used proportionally and that we should limit ourselves to real biomass. My proposal is sometimes not to hobby here in this Chamber but to leave it to those we have appointed for it. When they come to new insights, we will adapt to them. But that's the policy. Then we see clearly a distinction between the short, medium and long term. In the long term, we can see that there are only a limited number of applications that you would like to use biomass for. This could be aviation and shipping, where there is also work on other options than biomass. It could be high temperatures, but that also depends. And a logical candidate are materials, because we're gonna have to get the C's from somewhere. If we're not gonna get them out of the ground, then maybe they should come from somewhere else. Because we live not only on oxygen, but also on C's. So that's in the long term, but for the short and medium term, these applications aren't all acute yet, which means that we see other applications, but only where necessary and only as a transition. There are many proposals for this. In the framework of the Plan Bureau for the Environment, there are also medium-term and short-term applications that are different from those in the long-term. But then we have to make sure that we are on the right path to 2050 and that we are not committed to applications that are not long-term. That's something we're working on even further. We have also indicated this in the Juice of the Cabinet. There is a vision of biomass by the Empire, but it has not yet been applied to the climate agreement as it is going to be. That is what we are currently considering in order to establish the rules of the game. Mr Bruins' question is similar, but I think it is more specific, for example, on electricity supply. Look, a sustainable, reliable power supply requires switching power. That's a fact. Of course, that is necessary if it doesn't blow or if the sun doesn't shine enough. Then all kinds of options are available for switching power. Steering on the question is of course the best. If you are going to be able to turn off large questioners during a quiet wind, then that is a very obvious possibility and we must somehow achieve it through market incentives. Storage is a route, because if you save you can catch peaks and valleys. The hydrogen route is a promising one there; it is not yet ready in the starting blocks, but is very promising. Then, of course, we still have conventional standby power. That could also be done in the transition period, where you say: we are not yet fully sustainable, so let's temporarily absorb the differences between peak and valley, for example with the gas plants. If other alternatives are not available cost-effectively, one could say that in that case biomass could also be able to provide that switchable power in a sustainable way. This needs to be looked at more closely in the government's Juice Review. What I have in mind is a balancing framework. I always see a ladder in front of me, but there's another way to do it. A balancing framework in which we clarify when we come to what decisions. That is then verifiable, that also gives clarity, and there is, of course, an effort to do so, even during that period when we are looking at it more closely. That must also be objective and not only should stakeholders agree on what the Empire should do, because of course it does not work that way. My commitment would be to ensure that the CO-free capacity, the switchable piece, will continue to be achieved through market incentives and not through regular subsidies. That should be the bet. That is the stake, I say to Mr Bruins. He also asks that we not rush too much into the consideration, because we have also heard very frequent concerns in this Chamber about the stability of the system. It's connected to security of supply. We all see that the offer is less appealing to us. Wind and sun are not adjustable and the demand does not automatically adapt to that. So together we have a firm problem here on the table. We all need to see this in the light of a transition in which we need to be sustainable at the end. In that light, I think it is important to take a good look at this, where the stakes are clear. I am looking again at Mr Bruins. Everyone understands the stakes. We'll make sure there's something on the table where we can make that happen. The question of stability has also been raised very loudly here. Next, Mrs Akerboom asks: who is going to create the sustainability framework for biomass? I'm not gonna do that myself. Stakeholders aren't gonna do that either. We need independent experts to advise on an overall sustainability framework for all types of biomass. That would be a follow-up to that vision of Biomass 2030, which the previous cabinet showed the light of day. Who exactly is and what the precise question is, I cannot say too much about it now, but it should not become an advocacy document. It is simply a matter of public interest to think about what the road is. Mrs Akerboom has also spoken about firewood. This will be considered in the context of the ISDE review in 2019. Then we look at the effects of pellet stoves. In doing so, we are amply entering the territory of my colleague, the Secretary of State of IenW. That also has to do with air quality. On my own initiative, I can say that the night's sleep is sometimes disturbed by the wood pellet stoves, which are emerging. Maybe Mrs. Akerboom feels the same way. I received a small gift from Mr. Sienot. He decided to devote an important part of his contribution to geothermal energy. Thank you. Geothermics are too early. I sent it a policy letter in February. A master plan of the sector was published in September. If Mr Sienot has not yet taken that up, I invite him to do so. There's a strong ambition. We are not only thinking about greenhouse horticulture, which is still the main issue at the moment, but also about the built environment. In The Hague there is a project that we visited. There one is working with united forces to make that greater. It could still get some support. By the end of 2017 the total geothermal production was 3 petajoule and by 2030 we want to be at 15. I never object to any more. We have indicated that we are going to take a number of steps in this regard. I call it increasing the knowledge of the subsurface. The climate envelope, EUR 21 million this year and EUR 15 million next year have been earmarked for this purpose. That's under the direction of EBN. We've started an exploration program for ultra-deep geothermals. That is also a segment that needs to be investigated. There is also a budget for this. We have an innovation roadmap. Its implementation will start in 2019. This is also financed by the climate envelope provided by this cabinet. All this must come to life, and that is why acceptance is crucial again. If we had talked about support for geothermal energy two or three years ago, no one would be very concerned about it, but by now we know that this is also a candidate to cause unrest. People worry about things that they don't know what they mean to them. In his report of July 2017, State of the Geothermal Sector, SodM has called for attention on this basis. The cabinet has said to take over SodM's recommendations, but we have also launched a broader information campaign aimed at governments together with EBN, the industry association of geothermals and the Platform Geothermals. That's where it starts. This firm ambition calls on Mr Sienot to take account of the issue of licensing. In all honesty, I think we have another step to take there, because the licensing of mining activities is now heavily based on oil and gas. This is something else, and the licensing procedure simply doesn't fit in well with geothermal energy. He's putting that point forward as a concern. I can only confirm that. So I'm now in the process of adapting the Mining Act with a view to geothermal energy, so that we can better link licensing practice to geothermal practice. I hope to be able to consult this before the summer of 2019. Something really needs to be done about that. What also needs to be done is another point that I found in Mr Sienot's speech, namely the participation of professional parties, possibly EBN. We are working on the impact of EBN's participation in geothermal energy, and I hope to be able to report that to the Chamber this calendar year. That is, of course, also connected with the Jetten motion, tabled by a colleague of his. We hope to make progress there too. Mr Sienot also asked for pilots. We do not think that we should do pilots in at least three different cities was his question. Yeah, I think that's necessary. Without those pilots, we won't be able to scale that up. So I wholeheartedly agree with him and that is being worked on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u144	First of all, thank you to the Minister for unpacking the gift so enthusiastically. That sounds good about geothermal energy. My question is about the legislation on choosing the safest technique. We have to ensure that security somehow. We all agree on that. That alarm bell from State surveillance on the mines clearly sounded in that report. Does the Minister agree with D66 that we should really try to ensure in the law that always the safest technology available is chosen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u145	We agree on the objective. Or how it should be secured in a law is something else. It could also be secured in the procedure or in the supervision. I'm just in the dark about the cure, but I agree with the target. Maybe in the second period I can go into the question of whether a legal anchoring is the way forward or that it can be done in other ways. But then we're talking more about what's going on than whether it's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u146	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u147	Then we come to the extremely interesting subject of nuclear energy. Gee, there were a lot of questions about that all of a sudden! Kernenerge has been an option in the Netherlands for decades now. This means that when a market participant reports, it will be checked to see whether it meets all the conditions: nuclear safety, financial guarantees, waste treatment. If so, it may be eligible for a licence. It is not busy at the window, but there is room for a permit procedure. It's been like that since the 1960s. At the moment there is no such interest, at least in a non-political sense. But what is the government's position now? The first question that comes up is why it doesn't play at those tables. That's not unwillingness from the tables. There is no taboo on that either, certainly not with me; I graduated from one of the nuclear professors of the Netherlands at the time. However, the parties at the table have considered that the lead times do not make it so likely that this is a real option for 2030. Similarly, current market conditions do not indicate an active role for nuclear energy in the short term. Again, it is not for me to judge that. That's up to operators themselves. Again, the window is open. But it's not that obvious. If we were to say that we see a major role for nuclear energy in 2030, we would be fooling ourselves a little bit. That does not help to make good progress at these tables. By 2050 it will be much more open. In the long term, nuclear energy is indeed an option. I'm not making that up myself, but that's what all the parties that count on it make up. Not only has the IPCC calculated different variants in which nuclear energy occurs, but also the OECD, the International Energy Agency, estimates how this job can be done. They, like many others, come with nuclear energy in a mix. That, of course, is something the market must want. Once again, the window is open and, in the long term, it cannot be ruled out. I don't think it should be ruled out either. We are not a nuclear power operator; we are not an energy operator at all. In the end, the market must decide on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u148	A question from Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You're saying that nicely. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u150	I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u151	Thank you also to the Minister for replying. However, we hear other noises about being able to land on this subject at the climate tables. Among other things, I received the message from Mr Van der Lee early Tuesday, and I have just checked that from Nucleair Netherlands, supported by TU Delft, and the ecomodernists, in which various parties of us are represented here, that they do not come to the table and therefore do not discuss research and studies into fourth generation reactors and the like that may be promising. Mr Wiebes, of course, knows much more about this than I do. Our concern is therefore whether this issue has been taken into account in the medium-term and long-term energy mix that we are talking about in other areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u152	Look, we've put together the company around the PBL's estimates for the most efficient route. There was no statement on 2050, but on 2030. It didn't appear in the mix in 2030. It is also not the case that active public policy can now be developed to have a significant number of nuclear power plants running by 2030. From this point of view, the composition does not provide for active nuclear participants. But it's not like the Dutch government is doing nothing. There are all kinds of research programs. I even know of one member of the cabinet that I myself was enthusiastic about the development of the fourth generation. These are all promising things, but not things you can put your cards on before 2030. If you put your cards on that before 2030, you end up shooting yourself in the foot with that optimism. On the other hand, if you rule it out, you'll be shooting yourself in the foot by 2050. No one excludes it, but active participation for the picture for 2030 was not considered necessary. But anyone can speak freely and anyone can bring it forward. In fact, there are a lot of people who have responded to that site and brought in ideas there. I did not hear nuclear energy as a prominent means for 2030. By 2050, that could be quite different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u153	A follow-up question, Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's actually more of a comment. I hear the Minister's answer and I will deal with it in my term. We have asked written questions and I have a few additional questions. Perhaps we can look at it together in the run-up to the debate specifically on nuclear energy. I have a lot of questions, but I'll save them for my term, in which I'll give them up for the next debate. In fact, I wonder whether it might not have been a useful idea to consider this in this medium-term energy mix. But I come to that in the run-up to the other debate on nuclear energy. We'll do it in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u155	Excellent. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u156	Perhaps it could have been at that table, because in any case no decision in principle was taken not to do so. Maybe that has all kinds of advantages that I didn't see at the time, but Mrs Yeşilgöz will be back there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u157	It is also good to hear that it was not about parties at the table, but about parties who would have liked to sit at the table. Now I would have liked to put that in there myself and a lot of other Dutch people. Anyway, we cleared that up. I do not want to talk now about the advantages and disadvantages of nuclear energy, because we are going to talk about this separately. I can talk about that for a long time. But I am now talking about 2050 and the need for switchable power. That's what the minister just talked about. At that time it was still in the context of biomass. Maybe there'll be green hydrogen. But my point is actually another. Does the Minister not think that it is crucial that we develop this switchable capability together with our neighbouring countries in that period? Everyone has the same problem. We're all going to renewable sources. Isn't it much more logical to look at that solution more internationally in that period than just to focus on the switchable capacity in your own country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u158	No, we explicitly do not intend to see the problem of the imbalance between supply and demand as a Dutch problem. In fact, I was just talking about sun and wind. Well, to a lesser extent for sun, but for wind to a large extent it sometimes blows here and not there. So as we see Europe more as a copper plate, we have smaller problems with the connection between supply and demand in a relative sense. Exactly! That is why we are pursuing a European energy market and why we consider interconnection capacity to be so important. That is why the Netherlands has made itself so extremely strong in Europe for this connection capacity, including with our neighbours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u159	I'm glad to hear that. It also fits well with the commitment to the formation of a leading group. But there is still a substantive question about nuclear energy. It is very expensive, it takes a very long time to build and it is also a baseload facility: it has to run fully continuous if you want it to be profitable. Doesn't that make him a little more problematic, even as a switchable power?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u160	That is the second part of the question. I think we should be open to the role of nuclear energy in the energy supply of 2050. There are two ways to do that. Nuclear power plants are becoming more and more switchable. If we were to provide nuclear power stations with energy for two weeks a year in an emergency scenario, we'd be crazy. That is not the main point of those who argue for it either. They say, "Oh, my gosh, the challenge for renewable energy and the CO-free energy is huge, are we going to get it all? Maybe we need 20 gigawatts at sea, but we have charted 6.1 so far and I've already had a fight with the birds, the fish, the boats and the planes. So it's not easy. And you shouldn't rule anything out. We can decide here whether something is expensive or cheap, but ultimately it is investors, energy providers who determine whether something in a given situation is profitable or not. We need to make sure that we facilitate the cheapest route and that it is a stable system. That's my responsibility. I am not an investor in nuclear energy, and I almost don't think Mr Van der Lee is either. We do not need to discuss this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u161	For our debate on this subject, can the Minister inform us about which countries are currently working on...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u162	It's a waste of interruption. It's a waste of interruption. I'm not finished yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u163	I am sure the Minister will come back to whether he will discuss this in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u164	Mr President, I would now like to start with the debate in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u165	Look. Then the Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u166	In the end, we need CO-free. It does not help to use all kinds of definitions that do not allow the maximum freedom to regulate this. Eventually, that conversation will have to be held before 2050, and with a view to 2050. But let me just say that I am first of all curious from the cabinet about the exchange of views of the Chamber itself in the debate on nuclear energy. It's not 2050 yet. I agree with Mrs Mulder in the main. But I think it is neat, in the context of proper parliamentary eating with knife and fork, if I wait for the debate and then formulate a cabinet line on this point. She'll agree with me. I am keen to hear the Chamber first in broad terms about this. Which countries are in the process of building power stations? My information is that there are about 55 concrete buildings under construction. It concerns 16 countries, especially Asia: China, India and Korea. But nuclear power plants are also being built in Europe, including France, Ukraine, Finland and Slovakia. That is the third generation of nuclear power stations, but there is not yet a fourth. Nor is the fourth one for 2030, I dare say. That relativization of my own hobby I've got to get rid of here. There is no overview of the costs worldwide, but a power station of 2 gigawatt, so 2,000 megawatts, could soon reach 10 billion or even something more if you take everything with you. Mrs Mulder is asking about research with European Member States on whether it can be safer and cheaper. She's asking how we're going to invest in research. For that debate, let me get a look at what is now going on, because there is, of course, research in all kinds of areas. But let me also make a distinction on two points. Because there are all kinds of questions to ask, not only technically, but also politically. I think it is wise for me to try to figure out before that debate where the more technical-fundamental research is being carried out and how the Netherlands contributes to it, and where the policy research is taking place. It is also attractive to ask: what role could it play for the Netherlands? That's a bit the point of Van der Lee: The Netherlands, that's quite a small country. This is an important item on the agenda at European level. The IEA is also making statements about this for our part of the world and the European atomic agency. Let me get this straight, because of course we can use a lot of what exists. I am happy to make that commitment to be able to conduct the debate on the basis of what exists. It's not like I'm sending a cart and a sidecar with investigations, but I'm sending an overview of where what's being looked at. Mr Kops asks a question that is on the verge of the parliamentary system, because he asks me whether I can respond 'as Minister of the VVD' to the plan of 'VVD' to build new nuclear power stations, which was not discussed in the government agreement. I would just like to say that I am not here on behalf of the VVD. I'm a member of a party and so on, but I'm not here on behalf of the VVD. I represent a cabinet. It is not in the coalition agreement; that makes sense, because nothing changes. In the coalition agreement, you write down what's changing, not what's happening. And nothing changes, because according to the current policy, the Netherlands is open to nuclear energy, we have the window and we receive licence applicants with coffee and a cookie. As for "the VVD's plan," no, I didn't hear Dijkhoff say he has a big plan. Because Dijkhoff is not an investor, but wants to have an open discussion about the role that nuclear power can play, and sees a role there. That is something that concerns the Chamber and I trust that Mr Kops himself will play a part in that debate. As far as I am concerned, that was nuclear energy for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u167	But not yet for Mr Moorlag. So I'd like to give him the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u168	First of all, I would like to express my appreciation to the Minister for such an elegant way of emptying a balloon in such an elegant manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u169	Not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u170	I understand that he is choosing a completely unbearable position at the moment, at most serving coffee and a cookie, but that he is not going to saddle the tables with new assignments or change the composition at tables. Is that right? For to my liking it should not be the case that by introducing new parties other parties are being chased away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u171	In order: no and yes. It is not up to date at the tables because it cannot play a role before 2030. But there is a serious technique here, which could be an answer in the mix for a very serious issue for 2050. That is not a balloon, but it is a serious social issue, which is well discussed with the people's representatives, including Mr Moorlag. There's nothing balloony about that option. We have to look at this seriously, but that is something that is going on in the longer term than 2030. So, no, as a result, as far as I am concerned, no parties will run away and no parties will be added. We are on a mission along the lines of the PBL, and this option does not exist before 2030. It is, therefore, a yes, but that is not the end of the matter. It doesn't have to be trivialized, it just doesn't have to be acute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u172	Then the minister's got a spare head, if I have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u173	Yeah, that's right. There are some questions left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u174	And then we're gonna suspend for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u175	Oh, that sounds lovely. As far as I'm concerned, I'm gonna add a paracetam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u176	That's not so much lunch, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u177	That's an important ingredient. Then Mr Van der Lee... He's gone. Oh, no, he's not gone. With appreciation for the choice of words: an emergency reduction plan. No, it's clear. There's a verdict and the state has to enforce it. As soon as we hear exactly what the task is, we will be at the moment when we may also have to take additional measures. The arsenal has come through in detail. I'm not gonna do that again; that's what it is. If Mr Van der Lee wants to call it an emergency reduction plan, I will not stop him, but for the cabinet this is called the execution of a verdict. Then he also asks how I intend to shut down a power plant. It would be extremely silly to discuss that here. I'd be really crazy if I did. There are all kinds of possibilities for that. I am grateful to take advantage of the large number of suggestions made to me by Mr Van der Lee. Mr Van der Lee and Mr Kops spoke about plan B. No, there is no plan B. Additional measures will be introduced as soon as necessary. I will deal later with the amendments, one of which relates to this issue. Mrs Mulder has asked me if I am prepared to have the energy agreement and implementation evaluated. That is a very important point, because if we do not learn from experience in this new profession, we will have Mrs Mulder for years to come and Mr Moorlag, who rightly are telling the Interrupt Microphone that things have not worked out properly. We must learn intensively from what has gone well, but also from what has gone wrong. The energy agreement was an exercise that we will not soon forget. The evaluation has been carried out. There are lessons learned from that. I think it is a very good suggestion from Mrs Mulder to critically review the system of safeguards and monitoring against the recommendations contained in the energy agreement review. By the way, that's something Mrs. Mulder isn't the only one who's craving. The parties at the table, sometimes still with the scars and scratches of the securing of the energy agreement, are eager to do so. There is great respect for the person who did the bail, but several parties believe that they do bear the scars of it. Mrs Beckerman is concerned about the tax-free return to the energy bill. I have just explained that this has also been done in the context of reducing the burden on labour. I know it increases the energy bill. So everything indeed has a disadvantage. The political ideal does not exist. There is no low-hanging fruit in distributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u178	My interruption is actually about a point that has been raised a little earlier, but I thought that perhaps the Minister will move on to the next and then I missed the momentum. I have a question about the investment of 10 million from the climate envelope, which has been designed to see if we can do experiments with the ground-up of CO. Of course, this is also a way to reduce CO, but it is also possible to capture and convert CO into formic acid, for example. You can turn that back into hydrogen together. I don't know exactly how it works technically, but I know those two are connected. You can then take a very important step towards another way of ensuring security of supply, namely with green hydrogen. You can do that because you have more raise. Is the Minister prepared to see if as much as possible can go to this kind of technology, so shelter instead of putting it under the ground?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u179	I think they're both being watched. This amount is aimed at CCS, because we cannot roll it out with an SDE, as has already been discussed. It's gonna take more than that. But I think we should be open to all kinds of forms. If we can use CO instead of just putting it under the ground, it's only more beautiful, but I keep saying that it must be cost-effective in its entire contribution. There are routes on this, but that does not disqualify, in my view, the 10 million allocated for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u180	Enough? Yes. Then Mrs. Beckerman has another interruption. I see she's in doubt, but I'm giving her the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to check if Mrs Mulder might have had another question on this subject, because my question is about a slightly different subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u182	Fantastic. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u183	I had a question about the duty-free foot. By reducing it, households' energy bills go up. The Minister has said a number of times today: this whole climate policy only costs a slice; that is very little. Now we know that some people are able to swallow a melon, but other people can already choke on a berry. The duty-free foot is precisely intended to help people, to make their energy bill affordable, at least that is what I think. I wanted to ask a factual question: why do we actually have a tax-free base on the energy bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u184	Yeah, that's a pretty good question. We also have the general tax discount. Actually, that's a bit like it. It is always a trade-off between general discounts and labour charges. It has been chosen to reduce the burden on labour. Purchasing power measures have been introduced. This also proves that there is no such thing as energy purchasing power, but that it is about purchasing power across the board, with all income groups improving on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u185	It wasn't meant to be a trick question either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u186	No, I don't take him that way either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u187	But I kind of assume there's a basic right to energy, a basic right to heat. The reduction of duty-free rates, which is now taking place in this budget, affects people with lower incomes or perhaps an average income above average. You know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u188	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u189	It is precisely because we are now looking for support for the energy transition that you have often called this a very painful measure. People are watching their energy bill rise. That doesn't help the climate, and it certainly doesn't help people in the wallet. I'm trying to understand, but I just don't get this whole thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u190	Then I like to hook up with the wallet. There are groups, and also the lower group in the income building goes through a combination of all kinds of measures, pluses, mints and so on, eventually progressing. And that's what matters. People are not awake from measures; they are awake from their wallets. And in that wallet, steps are being taken forward. People are getting better. We would all have liked that more, because we all want to move forward, but the total purchasing power counts. That's what we're sending on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u191	And that's not the case. On Monday, there has already been a big debate on this. For a lot of people, this reduction in the burden of the cabinet is a burden increase. You say: they just want to get ahead and they don't care what they do. But it really hurts people that their energy bill will be coming in higher and higher and higher. They know that's because of climate policy. There is no point in climate policy. That is not good for the support, not good for the climate and not good for the households.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u192	Of course, this particular point is not related to the climate at all. We agree. That has nothing to do with it. This is a shift in the nature of the burden, with the aim of making the employment rate more attractive through income tax. But in the end, the wallet and purchasing power count. And the purchasing power plates show that all groups are improving, including the group at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u193	Mrs Mulder has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u194	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to a proper evaluation of the energy agreement and to take lessons from it. Now we have also had regional policy, for example in the province of Overijssel. There, a fund has been working hard on energy saving. Renewable energy has also been looked at. Are all these things also being taken in the direction of the new climate and energy agreement? It seems to me that it is so important that we learn from this and that we do not look only at the national measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u195	Yeah, I think that's a good suggestion. More questions have been asked. Mr Moorlag did not make it very clear, I think he did so in a subtle way, but the day before yesterday or so I suddenly thought that I saw a certain disappointment on the face of Mr Moorlag about my appreciation of his concerns about the labour market and training. I would like to come back to that. It is unthinkable that this would be considered a side effect, something insignificant. I would just like to point out in his direction that, in addition to finance and support, the labour market is simply a very important factor. If we do not ensure that the right people are trained to do so, then not only do we not have the benefits of this impetus on the labour market, but then we do not have a transition either. I would like to emphasise that. That requires constant attention. He can ask not only my colleague from SZW, but also me. The only thing I said last week is that I would like to draw his attention to the fact that I think it premature to make very binding statements about what should be done specifically in the coal sector. We still have a coal aussie to go. Perhaps the subject of coal will come to our attention when we see the possible additional tasks in the context of Urgenda. There are still very fundamental things to see. We also know that it is numerically, in numbers, limited, but can have regional impact. We also see that the two aspects I mentioned can add to that. So all I'm saying is we just need to take a look at it. In essence, the ESC opinion simply indicates what attention needs to be paid to. Only this particular point about the coal fund is something I wanted to abstract, because there are still some stations to go. So I would like to say in his direction that I see not only the cost-effective route and the basis of support, but also the labour market. So it has two sides. We want the middle part of the labour market to benefit from this, but we need to prepare them for that. But we also want the transition to succeed, and that means appealing to the same people. So I'm going to say that in his direction, because during his speech I suddenly thought... Let me say that I linked some of Mr Moorlag's frowns to the debate the previous week. Mr Van Raan asks if I share the concerns about the 1.5°C. I think I've made it clear that we have concerns. The target we now have belongs to the 2°C. We must work together, including in COP, to ensure that all these NDCs go up. There is still a great deal to be done about this in Europe, and I can give one guarantee to Mr Van Raan: it is always much slower than he sees in his ideal image. If I were to give full disclosure, that might be true of me, too. But unfortunately, the world turns into small steps. He asked me to think with the best and the brightest about CE Delft's proposal. I have described CE Delft's system as something that is the absolute ideal on paper, but I have such serious doubts about the feasibility that I am the best and the brightest................................................................................................................................................................................................. Because there are still a lot of things to work out. Mr Stoffer asked me about the stress test. What I like is that I first indicated in the debate where things were to be read and that he understands that and I can relate to that. I like that very much. But on that basis he has come to the conclusion that it may not be enough to think about it. He says, "Well, if you put two engineers and an economist together, you have to be able to get out of there." That's always my own statement. At TenneT a lot more engineers and a lot more economists work. I want to make him a proposal, because I do think it's solid work. Here's what I want to think of him. Would it be an idea if I asked TenneT to take a working visit there, or if there is one or thirteen, that would show the world to organize, so that TenneT could explain to the members of this Chamber how it sees this issue? I have just said that I see this as an extremely important issue, with the regulation and the two weeks a year that it is the worst and a larger part of the year that could cause problems, and what we all do about it. This is about net increase, about the mix of energy suppliers and about demand reduction. I would like to challenge him not to challenge me at the moment to organise an extra stress test, but to hear from TenneT himself once more how this has been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u196	I thank the Minister, of course, for those compliments, but I always find that if there is something there, you should read it. So that's what we're gonna do. I've seen that you're an engineer yourself, Minister, so if we have an economist with us, we'll be right out of it. I accept your challenge. I like it in itself. I am not interested in the fact that the work is not proper. Because what I read was very decent work. I am concerned about whether the perspective is far enough away. I think we could do that very nicely in the form of such a visit. I therefore accept this proposal and do not take up a mandate from the Minister. I would indeed say: first that visit; we are happy to do so. Then I will see if it is necessary to ask the Minister again, because I am also a little persistent. I can't help it. That's in the nature of the animal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u197	Yeah, that's how everyone has their quirks. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u198	That is a statement with which much is achieved. I now come to gas extraction, but also to Groningen in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u199	No, if you've completed the rest of the section, I suggest we suspend for half an hour now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u200	The order of business is then discussed. The vote will then be taken. After that, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy will once again have the floor. Then he continues his speech, starting with the theme Groningen and the gas.
