ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on measures against the hatred image that threatens the Mayor of Rotterdam. I welcome the Minister for Justice and Security and give the floor to Mrs Kuik as the first speaker, on behalf of the PvdA. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. A hate preacher, children in the IS area, the public prosecutor, freedom of speech and North Korea, these are subjects that are not necessarily related, but at least as an agreement that the minister has prematurely, half or too emotionally communicated about them. I do not agree with that, because a mayor is seriously threatened, everyone is concerned about the hatred of this preacher and we want to be sure that the minister is monitoring our security, freedom and legal certainty. We want him to be careful, to be on top of the files and to know what he is talking about, not to be a minister improvising. I also expected a little more from the letter he had sent us on 28 May last. The letter has become a whole list of measures and does not answer all the questions asked. I do not agree with everything in substance and therefore have questions. First, about the process and back to the beginning. It is still unclear to me what happened between the first and the second threat analysis made by the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security. Why was a threat image drawn up at the time and who made that request? Mr President, there are a number of questions about the content. In the press, the Minister said that restricting freedom of expression might need to be stretched, so further limited. In the letter, the Minister says very clearly that he wants to respect freedom of expression. What's the truth now? What is the position of the Minister in this important debate and this important discussion? Can he explain this difference in understanding? In the letter he further writes that he is considering the more severe punishment of insults. How will this measure help if the problem is that we do not know how to determine whether there is a criminal offence? Or that there's some kind of insult? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u3	Of course, the questions asked by my colleague to the Minister make sense and I understand that she does. All I get is the feeling I've been in another debate. I think the Minister in the Chamber has made it very clear that if you would like to do something, this means that it is about freedom of expression. I understand that there is an idea from the Labour Party that it runs a long way apart, but I think it's a bit beaten up. I'd like to test the way Mrs. Chicken looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u4	I don't like knocking either, but I don't like it when the Minister writes something different in the cameras five minutes after the debate here, in the cameras other than in the debate and then in the letter again. This needs to be clarified. That is why I am asking the Minister my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u5	Then I really did attend another debate. I have heard the Minister say here that he is reluctant and would rather not restrict freedom of expression. That's what he explained outside, maybe a little sharper. I don't recognize him saying "we don't" one time, and the other time, "we do." It is fine to clarify this, but occasionally I think I have been in another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u6	But there's exactly the difference. We were in the same debate and indeed he said the same thing in the Chamber. The problem is that outside the camera, with all sorts of journalists as witnesses, he has said exactly the opposite, improvising that freedom of expression may still have to be restricted. I recognize that it was not shared in this debate. The problem is that it was shared outside this Chamber. And then he writes something else in the letter. So I want to know from the Minister how he stands in this discussion, because I want us to have the debate here and not the media. Mr. Chairman. Another point about the letter is that we have made a proposal for a digital ban. We're trying to figure out how we're gonna do that, because the physical world and the virtual world are getting more and more together. Hate preaching over the Internet is as bad as preaching hate in a building. But about our proposal, the Minister says that it is not possible, because a digital area ban is not allowed in connection with Article 7 GW. I dare to fight that, because why should a physical ban be allowed, when the Council of State makes it very clear that a physical commandment is specifically intended to prevent a hate preacher from spreading his ideas? Moreover, we also know the possibility of a digital ban. For example, after a conviction for stalking special conditions are laid down for the use of social media. I therefore believe that a digital ban on territory can indeed help in limiting and preventing hate preaching. I would therefore like the Minister to withdraw on this point and consider the possibility of such a digital ban. Mr President, I will conclude. That may be easy, but the debate is always too short. There'll be a lot of questions left. I am therefore looking forward with interest to the questions that will be asked by the other colleagues and the discussion with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u7	I believe that on the basis of the facts we are holding the debate together. I heard Mrs Kuik say at the beginning of her speech that it is about hate sowing. I'm just looking, because I think this is a nasty message. If you ask Aboutaleb himself, he'll probably say it's a poisonous message. I am curious to see why Mrs Kuik concludes that this is a hate-sowing issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u8	I think it is hate-sowing because it calls for a message that we have all seen. Moreover, this message is brought by a hate preacher who has previously been associated with Ayaan Hirsi Ali and also with Theo van Gogh. Everyone knows what's implicitly behind this hate preacher's message. If he didn't mean to, he should have chosen his words more carefully. The debate we are having is about whether his message is criminally persecutable. That is another discussion, but I do believe that there is a call for hatred and therefore violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u9	That's interesting. I heard Mrs. Chicken say "everyone sees" a few times and "everyone knows." What we have seen here is a minister who said that he had discussions with the public prosecutor in The Hague and the public prosecutor in Rotterdam. The NCTV explained in detail at Nieuwsuur that the message is not punishable, however annoying and as much as we find it. I find it really striking that in this House, as parliamentarians, we ourselves use the term 'hate-sowing', because it makes the debate miserable. Mr Fawaz Jneid also has the right to participate in the debate within the law, no matter how annoying we think it is. If Mrs Kuik thinks there is hatred, then I say to her: just report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u10	I do think it's hate-sowing. I believe that the message behind his call does indeed call for violence. Then I'm not a judge. So I can only ask the Minister what possibilities there are in criminal law to deal with this. I would also ask Mr Azarkan not to devote his energy to me, but to Mr Fawaz Jneid and the way he behaves. Mr Azarkan may ask him to moderate in his tone, because he does feel good that it is not okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u11	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u12	The fact that that message is not okay is evident from the fact that the As Sunnah mosque sent this gentleman away. Words of this imam have led to the government of the As Sunnah Mosque saying to disconnect from this imam. That's even been the subject of legal proceedings. Don't let Mrs. Kuiken come up with the idea: you have to address this gentleman yourself, because he doesn't get enough counter-gas. A lot of people do that. I am concerned about the purity of the discussion. When Mrs Kuik talks about hate-sowing, we do so on the basis of facts. The Minister says that in this case there is no hatred or criminal offence. The NCTV also says so. The Minister has tested this twice. I find it extremely striking that Mrs Kikken continues to persist in her view that it is about hate-sowing. I think that's really wrong. I think Mrs. Chicken should take that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u13	Actually, the NCTV didn't say that. The D.A.'s office concluded that. Secondly, it is true that there has been a ban on this man's territory. That area ban has been ratified by the Council of State. So Mr Azarkan should not come to me now that there is nothing wrong. The problem is that there is only an area ban for The Hague. Then the man can go to Amsterdam to continue to sow hate and anything can go freely on the internet. So, within the limits of the law, I'm looking for ways to deal with this man. One of these possibilities is a digital area ban. That is the area I am looking for politically, because it is my job and responsibility to protect the rest of society from hate-sowing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u14	Mrs Kuik disagrees with the Minister's speech on the digital ban on territory. It does not agree with the conclusion that such a ban would not be possible. It refers to the physical area ban. I do not follow Mrs Kuik very well, because a physical ban is about someone's location or someone's presence in a particular place, while a digital ban is always about an expression. So I think you always apply censorship to what people might want to say or communicate in a picture as a message. So can Mrs Kuik explain to me why she thinks that the possibility of a physical ban would say something about the possibility of a digital ban? 'Cause I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u15	Good question. I refer to the words of the Council of State, which says: "It is intended to prevent Jneid from spreading his ideas." So that is not only tied to place, but also to spreading his evil thoughts. I am going through that analogy and therefore it would be advisable to examine how we can also make a digital area ban possible. Because it is not only limited to the physical domain, but it is also about the virtual domain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u16	Wouldn't it make more sense to say that even a physical land ban, if you explain it broadly, is already affected by the censorship ban? That is also what the WODC wrote and maybe we'll talk about that as well. Isn't that more logical than going the other way and saying that a digital ban on territory might be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u17	That's a weighting you make. I am looking at an individual who consciously bikes along the borders and through the loopholes of the law. He thinks: I got a ban somewhere, but I catch the train and I go to Amsterdam. He picks up the Internet, 'cause that's what everybody's on. I want to look at possibilities to specifically address this individual, because hate preachers don't deserve such a wide stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I'm going to see Mr Markuszower of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u19	Thank you, Mr President. The mayor of Rotterdam is threatened by the life-threatening Syrian imam Fawaz Jneid. That Jneid is no stranger to the security forces. Since 1993 he has been spreading Islamic hatred in the Netherlands and since 1993 he has been calling for Islamic violence. He preaches that disobedient women may be stoned. Jihad fighters who sowed death and destruction in the name of Osama bin Laden and the Taliban were blessed by him. He begged his Allah to destroy the American President and the Israeli Prime Minister, thus allies of the Netherlands. Ayaan Hirsi Ali had to get cancer from Jneid to her brain and only a few days before the terrorist attack on Theo van Gogh, Jneid cursed the filmmaker with a disease that could not be cured by all the inhabitants of the earth. Mohammed B. listened to that sermon and did what was implied to him by the imam: he slaughtered Van Gogh in broad daylight. According to the Dutch court, Jneid is a danger to national security. Jneid has dual nationality. Take away that Dutch nationality, I say to the Minister, and bang this house image of DENK out of our country. If the minister can't do that, then at least lock up this scary, Islamic creep preventively. But the Minister doesn't. This life-threatening imam openly threatens the mayor of Rotterdam. What about the Minister of Justice and Security? It's there and it's looking at it. You really only need a little knowledge of Islam to know that if an imam names another Muslim as an apostate and enemy of Islam, this is equivalent to a death sentence. Because within Islam there is only one appropriate punishment for apostasy, and that is the death penalty. And you really only need a little knowledge of the right to know that this is a brutal appeal to violence and therefore punishable. It is therefore completely incomprehensible to my group that the Minister and the Public Prosecutor claim that they see no grounds for prosecution. It should be an absolute top priority of this minister and the prosecution to put this dangerous imam behind bars. Have the Minister and his prosecutors taken note of the free advice given by the renowned legal professors Afshin Ellian and Paul Cliteur? They're clear, aren't they? They say quite clearly that this hate image can be prosecuted on the basis of Article 137d of the Criminal Code. When this minister was a lawyer, he was known to go through the fire for his $1,000-an-hour paying clients. But now all the Dutch are his customers. Despite the fact that we may be paying a little less in his view, can we, Dutch, expect our Justice Minister to go through the fire for us as well? But oddly enough, the Minister said he had, but he didn't really. Why did the Minister pretend during oral Question Time in the Chamber that he had engaged in extensive consultations with the D.A. when that was not the case? Does this minister understand that he was hired to protect the lives of Dutch people, including the mayor of Rotterdam, and not to play a game of bluff poker in the House of Representatives? And why does the minister point out in the media that he wants to restrict freedom of expression for all Dutch people, while he just needs to ensure that imams are no longer allowed to call for violence? Finally. Does the Minister now agree with my group that a ban on areas is far from enough to stop the danger posed by this imam? Is the Minister prepared, in spite of his bluffing and bumbling, to instruct the prosecution to prosecute this dangerous imam, Fawaz Jneid, for openly calling for violence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u20	I hear Mr Markuszower asking if the Minister is prepared to prevent imams from expressing hate messages. I'm curious. We know Article 137c and d. I think the PVV knows it very well, because on that basis Mr Geert Wilders has already been charged twice and once he has been found guilty. I was wondering what that looks like other than what we have now. How could a minister ensure that we have a law whereby imams are not allowed to pronounce? What's that look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u21	Didn't I just mention that in my speech? This is an imam that describes a fellow Muslim as apostate. In Islam that is equal to the death penalty. That is a call for violence. Those other paragraphs of Article 137 should, of course, simply be deleted. But 137d, inciting violence, is punishable and the minister can just prosecute. The D.A. can just prosecute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u22	So if I understand what Mr Markuszower is saying, I can conclude that he is simply saying that he wants the Minister to press charges.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u23	That's in my text, yes. I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u24	I just got the impression that you were in favour of making specific legislation, unlike what we have now, to prevent imams from speaking. But if you tell the minister to press charges, you couldn't have gotten that whole racket of yours. Then one sentence could have been enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u25	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u26	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate has been a while ago, but the issue at its root is becoming to us every day. To what extent does freedom of expression protect statements, even if they can hurt, distress or shock? D66 stands for freedom of expression. We are therefore very reluctant to restrict this fundamental right of all of us, just to silence a few. This may be a striking choice for a social-liberal, but I would like to quote the German philosopher and Marxiste Rosa Luxembourg: freedom is always the freedom of those who think differently. D66 stands for that freedom, even though we strongly disagree with a position. Let me be clear about that, too. We strongly reject the statements of hate preachers and the effect they can have on people. Mr. Chairman. Freedom of expression is therefore a very important right for D66, but it is not an unlimited right. Insulting, threatening, spreading hatred or discrimination is prohibited. Those are the limits we have laid down in our criminal law. The assessment of whether those limits have been exceeded is for the Public Prosecutor's Office and for the judge. That's not always easy. Much depends on the specific situation. It is a complex matter, but I think it is well entrusted to our judiciary. Mr. Chairman. The Minister's letter shows that the criminal justice instruments, supplemented by a number of administrative possibilities, are actually working well. The Netherlands has a wide range of measures to tackle extremist statements. My group is therefore reluctant to extend these instruments further. My question to the Minister is whether he agrees with me. After all, I remember that he seemed willing for the camera to give some freedom to shut up these kinds of individuals. As far as my group is concerned, the Minister of Justice must certainly be very reluctant to make this kind of statement about freedom of expression. Can the Minister indicate how he himself now looks back on that statement in front of the camera? Mr. Chairman. I am largely in agreement with the spirit of the letter that the Minister has written on the approach of extremist speakers. For example, I share the objections to a digital area ban. Such a proposal would amount to unacceptable censorship by the government. It would be too great a restriction on the freedom of those who disagree. Mr. Chairman. In his letter, the Minister also indicated that he wanted additional international research to be carried out. I get that. It's always good to learn from others, from abroad, what opportunities there are and what we could do. My question to the Minister is whether he can indicate when the investigation will begin and when he will expect the results. I see Mrs Van Toorenburg standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u28	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u29	Do you want me to carry on? I wanted to switch to another cup.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u30	Then I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u31	I understand D66 and it's a steady line. I do have a question. If someone's statements are to seriously protect a mayor, is it satisfactory for D66 to say that you can say anything on the basis of freedom of speech, even though we may have to protect that mayor completely because anything can happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u32	It is good to hear that Mrs Van Toorenburg at least sees a persevering line at D66. I'm glad. No, of course it's not satisfactory. That is why I also said that we strongly reject this kind of statement. But I would like to quote Mr Aboutaleb, the direct object in this matter. He said, "No matter how toxic expressions are, I think they should always be done." I think that's also the line I'd like to choose. I think there should be a broad possibility, unless people really cross those criminal boundaries that we have drawn so that people can also make unpleasant statements. Otherwise, I think we are doing more damage than we are allowing the individual to do this kind of nasty thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u33	I regret that, because Mr Aboutaleb may be strong enough and secure enough to deal with this, but we are in a different situation here. I do not understand it very well: it seems as if there has been a huge violation of freedom of expression by the Minister, but what he is actually doing is suggesting that we indicate the context of an offence as an insult. What, then, is in principle far-reaching in that regard, according to D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u34	I told you, I'm actually very pleased with the Minister's letter. He confirms what we already thought, namely that the existing instruments are good and that there is no reason at all to come up with new instruments that would lead to a further violation of freedom of expression. I also explained to you at the beginning of my speech that, in my view, this contextual assessment lies primarily with the Public Prosecutor's Office and with the judge, because they are dealing with the specific case and can see precisely the circumstances in which a particular expression is made. In my view, it is very complicated to lay that down in the law in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u35	I know D66 as a party that always attaches great importance to the rule of law, including the institutions associated with it: the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Court. Mr Grothuizen is also quite right to point out that there should be a review of the context in which statements are made. Now it's true that in all times that Jneid has been judged, this has never come before a judge. That contextual assessment has therefore been stuck with the public prosecutor's assessment every time. Does Mr Groothuizen agree with me that it is desirable that such a case should be brought to justice so that a judge can also give a ruling, because that is in the interests of our rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u36	In general, I think that is a complicated question. In any case, I do not find it so tempting to sit here on this sitting chair of the Public Prosecutor's Office, although I sometimes find that some of my colleagues are less reluctant to do so. I am not in favour of that, because I do not know all the details of the matter. Moreover, there is, of course, the risk that a non-successful prosecution will also encourage someone to continue certain behavior. I would also point out to Mr Rutte that if anyone, for example Mr Aboutaleb, cannot agree with the judgment of the Public Prosecutor, he can always go to court to enforce prosecution. So I think there are all kinds of possibilities. I am not in favour of us deciding which case should or should not be brought to justice at the level of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u37	We also have a responsibility as the House of Representatives. We're legislators. We have made laws, and we also want them to be implemented in a way that is in line with the intention of the legislator. Mr Markuszower spoke of Mr Ellian, who wrote: "With a linguistic explanation based on the recent judgments, there is a real chance that imam Fawaz could be convicted. The context in which Fawaz speaks is also formed by his other sermons and his listeners. The Public Prosecutor must refer his judgments to the judge. But for this they have to invest heavily in studying his statements and his public life since 2002." That's about that contextual assessment. Ellian says it can be done, including a legal judgment. Wouldn't it be wise for the House of Representatives to give the signal: let the prosecutor bring such a case to justice? That'll make us all better. And then we'll see what the verdict is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u38	I may be repeating myself a little bit, but I don't think so. As far as I can tell from the letter, I think the D.A. has looked carefully at it. There are even two packages they've been looking at. The fact that someone else has a different opinion on this is quite common in legal science, as Mr Rutte knows perfectly well. In my view, this does not mean that we should take a completely different route, and we should therefore now break the principle that it is really up to the Public Prosecutor to assess in a specific case whether prosecution is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u39	Mr Grothuizen just praised the Minister's letter. Does that also apply to the part in which the Minister says that you might think of a supplement to criminal law where it is a separate offence or more severe punishment of expressions that pose a danger to security?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u40	I read that passage. It is of course quite short and raises a lot of questions. I'm trying to imagine something about that. Then you should have a case in which, for example, this gentleman makes an expression that encourages someone else to express threatening language. The first speaker would then be held responsible for the conduct of the successor. I think that's quite unique in our criminal justice system. In general, we assume individual responsibility. It also seems to me quite difficult to make that link, so I am not very excited about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u41	But why can't you also imagine the next situation, precisely from the contextual review that Mr Groothuizen just mentioned? Someone says for a certain heated group that has rather jihadist sympathies: that one and that one is a renegade Muslim and we should not accept that. That could then be a grievous expression that could endanger the safety of the person. This can then complement the criminal justice instruments in relation to what we now have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u42	That's always a bit complicated, because then we're back as it were to play on the basis of a just-invented case, Mr. Van der Staaij. But as you just put it, I wonder if it does not already fall within the limits of sedition or 137d, for example. The question is what this really adds and what problems you bring in, based on the individual responsibility of people and the fact that one way or another you have to attribute someone else's behavior to a third. In my view, this is a very complicated criminal law issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u43	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u44	Thank you. I'm rounding up. I do have a number of questions about Mr Jneid's specific case and, in particular, about the ban on the area. That was, I understand from the documents, set up in August 2017 and then maintained by the court. Nieuwsuur reported on 26 March of this year that the Ministry has asked the WODC to make another analysis of the area ban imposed. That analysis is also on the Internet and is quite critical. Why can't I find that analysis in the timeline that the Chamber received? How was that analysis actually linked to the decision taken to renew Mr Jneid's ban on the territory? Is that analysis even part of that decision? If that's not the case, why are you taking advice at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u45	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u46	Thank you, Madam President. The debate today is about security and freedom in the Netherlands, about whether the laws we have complied with. Do they strike the right balance between freedom of expression on the one hand and protection from violence and threat on the other? But we must also talk today about the functioning of the minister, because his actions have not served the difficult substantive discussion. The crucial question at Question Time on 27 March was whether or not Fawaz Jneid can be prosecuted for his statements regarding our Rotterdam mayor. The minister said that persecution cannot be done, because Jneid just, but also remained within the limits of the law. We now know that the Minister's answer is self-invented. At least, it was made without consultation with the top of the prosecutor's office, because it did not receive a call from the minister or his staff until the same morning asking whether the rulings were actually criminal. The College of Attorney General quite rightly ruled that they couldn't handle it just before coffee time. In his letter, the Minister says that it would have been wiser if he had spoken to the college before. Well, that's right. But why would this have been wiser? He doesn't say that, but I'd like to hear it from the Minister. Putting the ball at the DA's office wouldn't have been just a matter of courtesy. The state's attorney's office might have come to a different substantive assessment than it is now. But the Minister's self-righteous action has actually made that impossible. How could the D.A. come to another conclusion if the Minister himself had already said that he was also speaking on behalf of the D.A.? Let's say it did come to trial. What role could the Minister's words have played in this? I'd like an answer from the Minister to that. Does he recognize that he restricted the room of movement of the D.A.'s office and how does he judge it? Mr. Chairman. So not the college, but two arrondissement parquets had come to the conclusion that the statements are not punishable by the current law. But it is important to keep an eye on the date. They came to their conclusion on 18 January. In addition, they could only lean on the initial analysis of the NCTV. In that analysis it was stated that Jneid's statements do not lead to an increase in the threat to our Rotterdam mayor. No extra threat, no prosecution. But on January 24th, another analysis was made, an in-depth analysis. Not only did they look at the words, but they were interpreted in context. That led to the worrying conclusion of NCTV foreman Dick Schoof that Jneid sows hatred. Hate-sowing, threat, thereby shifting the playing field. That could have had an impact on the prosecution's judgment. Is it true that no one from the D.A.'s office took that second analysis into account when assessing the criminality of Jneid's statements? At least, not before 27 March, when the minister spoke for his turn. Is that right? I don't know if Jneid's statements are ultimately punishable, but what I do know is that the minister walked through the porcelain cabinet like an elephant. As a result, I am left with the feeling that I do not know whether the current law is sufficiently fully tested, and that is unfortunate. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to know from the Minister when he knew that the second analysis of NCTV would come. Specifically: was he aware of the new analysis before Dick Schoof did his story on television, or is it true that he was mugged by it? And if he was well informed in advance, why didn't he immediately inform the D.A.? Finally. In his letter, the Minister says that we could amend criminal law by imposing a heavier penalty on insulting statements that endanger the safety of the offended persons, or to separate them into a criminal offence. We just heard about it in the interruptions. This proposal is partly a proposal I made in the previous debate. I still think the letter is very careful. Does the Minister intend to take an initiative here, yes or no? If not, I shall consider a motion for that in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u47	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Arno Rutte on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u48	Mr. Chairman. "The cabinet is committed to acting vigorously against extremist speakers expressing anti-democratic views and preventing them from spreading their message." This firm statement opens the letter of the Minister of 28 May 2018, which gives an overview of the measures taken to combat extremist preachers. A letter that was written after yet another fuss around violent statements by the famous hate imam Fawaz Jneid. This time statements about the alleged apostasy of Mayor Aboutaleb of Rotterdam, who could be put in danger. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is all done with this hate imam, which has been spreading its undermining message of intolerance and hatred since 2002, which uncompromisingly comes to explain on TV that it's okay, because time and time again the Public Prosecutor decides not to prosecute. The good news is that Jneid's ban on the territory of two districts in The Hague has also been maintained on appeal. But without criminal prosecution, preachers like Jneid continue to have the space to spread their message of hatred, for example in another city or online. Back to the letter from the cabinet. That firm opening line suggests that the cabinet is doing everything it can to prosecute Jneid now, because much crazier than a mayor of Rotterdam who has to fear for his life through statements by Jneid, can it not be? But no, the letter explains in detail why persecution is really not possible. As I read in the letter, there appears to be a great deal of restraint with regard to persecution, because it concerns expressions made in a religious context. That context would stand in the way of prosecution. However, the crux is that we do not know whether this assumption of the Public Prosecutor's Office is correct. By not persecuting these kinds of violent issues, religion is freed where statements that might even lead to death remain unpunished. That can't be true, can it? I'd like a response from the Minister. The fact that the Public Prosecutor's Office always invokes the context for the decision not to prosecute and does not allow that context to be checked by a judge is incomprehensible to the VVD. It is difficult to imagine that the freedom of religion offers scope to make extreme statements that make people fear for their lives. Where the Public Prosecutor's Office systematically agrees with the reasoning that in the context of religion and public debate more is allowed than outside, that reasoning can be reversed with the same ease. Just a preacher who knows what behavior statements within the context of that religion could lead to should be more cautious in his expressions. The preacher knows very well that certain expressions within the particular context of that religion can be understood as a call for violence. I have not yet seen any evidence that this reasoning is legally incorrect. I'd like to hear if the Minister follows me on this. Mr. Chairman. By systematically refusing to bring such serious cases to justice, our country is denying the necessary case law to clarify the actual criminality of these kinds of expressions, and can continue to spread its poisonous and undermining message laughing at hate preachers such as Jneid. That really has to change. Let me be clear: the VVD will not be negative about a prosecution that continues, but runs into an acquittal before the judge. After all, a lost cause can also provide a great deal of insight for a possible follow-up step. On the contrary, the VVD takes a negative view of the fact that the D.A. isn't always trying. If the Public Prosecutor's Office had been as long-suffering as Fawaz Jneid's approach to outlaw motorgangs, it would never have been possible to ban Bandidos and Satudarah. But at the outlaw motorways, the Public Prosecutor continued after a first failure, with results. That is the commitment of the Public Prosecutor's Office that the VVD wants and that the Netherlands deserves. I therefore ask the Minister to convey this message to the Public Prosecutor in the very near future, so that the policy changes and the Public Prosecutor brings hate preachers to justice on behalf of all of us. If the Minister considers it necessary to use his designation powers, the VVD will support him in this. For the Netherlands cannot and must not be a refuge for messages of hatred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u49	Thank you to Mr Rutte for his contribution. I have a question. What does Mr Rutte think of the fact that someone on TV is saying about another democratically elected politician: that is our neo-Nazi?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u50	I don't think that's a pretty statement, by the way. I can imagine someone feeling pretty hurt and offended by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u51	I'm glad you indicated that, because you just quoted Mr. Afshin Ellian here to support all the terrible things Mr. Fawaz Jneid is doing, like some kind of explanation. I think it would have been good if you had looked through, because Mr Afshin Ellian says on our public service channel, at WNL about the colleagues from NIDA, who were democratically elected in Rotterdam: these are our neo-Nazis. I was wondering how you feel about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u52	I just said that I don't like that statement. It does not disqualify Mr. Ellian as a legal scholar by definition. He himself has been seriously threatened. He also comes up with court cases in which things are well-founded. There are issues in which he himself was seriously threatened and eventually a conviction followed, which clearly underpins the context, including a religious context, within which things are said in this matter. I think Mr Ellian has a very authoritative opinion on this. I also think I can share it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u53	I think it is wise that we politicians should not call on people who themselves are hurting and sometimes also spreading poisonous messages, to show that others are not right. I find it rather shocking that Mr Rutte arrives here with Mr Afshin Ellian, who says on national television, at the NPO at WNL, where Mr Segers sat next to him, about elected NIDA council members: these are our neo-Nazis. Actually, I'd like you to distance yourself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u54	I've said what I want about that. I think it is rather unusual that the legal opinion of certain people should not be shared here. I'm not going along with that. That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u55	Mr Rutte once again argues: would it not be a good thing for the public prosecutor to put these matters before us, because this way we will never get that case law. He did that before and just now in an interrupting debate with me. He specifically referred to the area of freedom of faith. But the letter simply refers to all kinds of judgments that have already made up their minds. This freedom must be understood more widely when it comes to religious expressions. This is under heading 2.3. So I wonder: we no longer need this case law for that assessment framework. That's pretty clear. I think Mr Rutte might disagree with the choice made by the court. He could, but he'd have to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u56	That is not clear. There are indeed cases in which judges have made it very clear that words in a particular religious context cannot be interpreted differently than as a call for violence or hatred. This happened, for example, in a lawsuit against the same Afshin Ellian and Ayaan Hirsi Ali. So that reasoning can go both ways. This certainly applies to this Mr Jneid, who always speaks in a kind of cryptotal within a religious context, where those words can only be interpreted in a certain way within that religious context. That is the kind of case I would rather have in front of a judge than keep the D.A.'s office in court all the time. That's a hell of a good thing for things that are a priori out of the question. For that we have the opportunity principle. But in this sort of thing, which is sanding, and in which you can really say in a reasonable way and with good arguments, "this is really not possible; this is socially undesirable," I find it really wrong when the state's attorney leans structurally backwards and says: I'm not trying. I want them to try. If that leads to an acquittal, we'll learn from it. Don't try it, I don't like Jneid's direction. It only strengthens him to be able to say: what I do is all right. He doesn't even do that in Dutch on TV all the time, but well, he does say it, laughing. It's not allowed. At least I don't think it's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u57	I would like to ask Mr Rutte what this means in his view for the principle of opportunity, but he has already brought it up himself. Isn't that an odd exception, that we're actually going to skip the DA's office for a certain category and file cases directly with the court, hoping that we'll get some clarity about a number of individual cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u58	I think the principle of opportunity is very good. If things are a priori really out of the question, then the prosecution should be able to say, "I'm not getting into that." But these things are sanding. In these cases you can indeed set up a legal reasoning in a decent way which can be brought to justice. Then I want the judge to pass that judgment, not just the state's attorney's office. It can happen once, but it certainly shouldn't be structural. It almost seems that the Public Prosecutor is here judging his own judgements rather than court rulings. I do not think that is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u59	Mr Rutte spoke very emphatically about the Public Prosecutor's Office and the responsibility of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I share his view that it is a good thing to prosecute. But in this case, did the Minister perhaps not make this difficult, because on 27 March, even before he had consulted the public prosecutor's office, he said that Jneid could not be prosecuted?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u60	Mrs Buitenweg herself asked questions about this. I'm curious about the answers to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u61	Good. Thank you. Mr Markuszower also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u62	Does Mr Rutte now agree with me that if the Public Prosecutor's Office does not want to prosecute Jneid, the only way to prosecute him is if the Minister of Justice and Security gives a clue? And if so, will you call him as I do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u63	That is where I choose my words very carefully. I just did. I want the Secretary of State to enter into an intrusive dialogue with the State's Attorney's Office in order to come up with a different policy of prosecution. I also doubt very much whether it is still possible to come back to this matter. If he finally chooses to use his designation power, I will support him in that. I think it is vulnerable for us here to say from the Chamber: he must use his designation power. Once we've done that, we'll be sitting in the chair of the D.A.'s office ourselves. I agree with Mr Grothuizen. That's a step too far. I'm really close to it, but I wouldn't want to take that last step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u64	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP. Let me be clear: I did not agree on the number of interruptions in advance, but this is a debate. Mr Azarkan has interrupted three times, and others twice. I'll keep track of it all. You may interrupt up to three times. It's kept up to date. I'm gonna say that, or we're gonna have another discussion about that. You know all about that, don't you, Mr. Van Raak?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u65	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I would like to begin by wishing Mr Aboutaleb, the mayor of Rotterdam, much strength. He's being extra secured, as we understand, because of threats. He said the reason was the debate with DENK about Pegida. We are talking today about previous threats, by imam Jneid, about who this minister said he could not be prosecuted. That's what the minister did on behalf of the state's attorney's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u66	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u67	No, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u68	My question to the Minister is: has he not reduced the possibility of prosecution? Didn't he drive the state's attorney's office with that? Now he's had to admit he hasn't had any contact with the D.A.'s summit. So he spoke in turn. Does he share my suspicion, my fear, that, precisely because of his actions in the Chamber, the prosecution and investigation of this Fawaz Jneid has become impossible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u69	A personal fact, I understand, from Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u70	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Raak indicated that Mr Aboutaleb had indicated that he had been threatened following a debate with DENK. Mr Aboutaleb has also been addressed by my group. This was a debate with the city council in Rotterdam in which DENK also participated. It was not therefore a debate with DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u71	Okay, then you've made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u72	Delighted, thank you. So the question is whether the Minister did not drive himself into the wheel with this. What exactly is it about? The Arabist Jan Hoogland tried to translate it. He says that imam Jneid does not literally call the mayor "apostate" and "enemy of Islam." However, he, Jneid, places Aboutaleb in a row of Muslims for whom those predicates do apply. So this arabist also concludes that it is difficult to interpret the sermon differently than that Aboutaleb deserves those characteristics. So I also agree with people who ask: can we not see whether persecution is possible? But I'd like to leave that to the Minister. Mr Azarkan walked away for a moment, but I owed him an answer in the context of the previous debate, on 3 April, when we also talked about Jneid. It was also about the fact that this imam threatened Jneid Aboutaleb. Azarkan said: if you don't know better, you'd almost think that some right-wing parties want separate legislation for Muslims. I asked him what he meant by that, because I think Aboutaleb is Muslim. Jneid says he's a Muslim and Aboutaleb is a Muslim, so I was wondering what that was like. Are we going to put one Muslim above the other? Azarkan said at the time that my remark was incorrect. He introduced me to look at the Acts again. I did, and I have to conclude that Mr Azarkan said that there was legislation here against Muslims. So I invite Mr Azarkan to avoid that misunderstanding in his own term, or perhaps now. I would find it very disturbing if DENK sets Jneid as an example for Muslims and mayor Aboutaleb would not see him as a Muslim.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u73	I have rarely heard so much nonsense at the end of a speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u74	I'm not done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u75	We'll let Mr. Fawaz Jneid find himself a Muslim. We're all fine with that. So can Mr. Aboutaleb; that's for everyone to find. That's not up to us. We do not judge that. In my party are all kinds of people from society. Whether they're Hindustani, man or woman, we're all fine with that. We are not about the religion of others. I find it a little strange what you're saying. What I was trying to say is precisely what Mr Markuszower, I think, argued: can we not come up with legislation for imams who are carrying an unpleasant message within criminal law? That's what I asked for. What I should have said last time was that I sometimes get the impression that we sometimes look for reasons to stop and make it more difficult, perhaps through other laws and regulations, in the case of displeasure messages from Muslims. I get that impression sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u76	I think I am very happy to hear that, because I understand from the words of Mr Azarkan that he sees not only Jneid as a Muslim, but also Aboutaleb. That's good. But I also ask this question because I would like to know from the Minister not only why people like Jneid can hold this kind of hate speech, but also how there are so many people who want to listen to it. How did the soil in the Netherlands become this way? I know a lot of healthy Dutch Muslims. In the public debate, it sometimes seems as if Salafists set the tone, are the norm. That's something very disturbing. Is that because of Turkey's long arm? Is that because of the funding from Saudi Arabia? Is that because in mosques some normal healthy Dutch imams are being disposed of for idiots from Saudi Arabia? I do not know, but it is something we should discuss in the context of the debate on this hate image. What's the Minister's response?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u77	Mr Markuszower was just addressed and I give him the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u78	Indeed, it is not an interruption, but a reaction to the way I was addressed. When the foreman of DENK speaks to you, you always have to be careful. I certainly did not plead in my speech for the amendment of the current law. My whole plea is that the Minister and the Public Prosecutor should prosecute on the basis of Article 137d, inciting violence. I would be very sorry if it were to be interpreted as a plea for amending the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u79	Then this point has also been clarified. Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I'm going to see Mrs. Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u80	Thank you, Mr President. We live in the Netherlands in a democratic constitutional state. Freedoms of religion, expression and association are essential to our democracy. In our rule of law, freedoms are protected for everyone, but they are not unlimited. They find their limits when the freedoms of others are compromised, when people are inciting hatred or violence or when security is at stake. That was the direct cause for this debate: the security of the mayor of Rotterdam. I would like to thank the Minister for the letter in which he sets out what is being done against extremist speakers and the spread of radical ideas. It is important to work on a resilient democracy at this time. In the coalition agreement and in the cabinet's plans, the focus is already on tackling organisations that incite hatred and intolerance and rejecting foreign funding from non-free countries. With these proposals, we must get to work quickly. In particular, I have a number of questions concerning the criminal law possibilities outlined by the Minister in his letter. The minister comes back extensively to the public prosecutor's assessment of the preacher Fawaz Jneid's statements. He generalises those statements to an assessment by the preacher of whether Mayor Aboutaleb is a salafist, but the statements about the mayor went a little further by calling him an apostate Muslim and an enemy of Islam? The National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator said about these statements: "There are persistent concerns that Jneid could gain influence among radical young people with such statements. It is also possible that with the use of the typification "wasteful" he initiates self-direction." That is where my group's question came from about the contextual review. To what extent are the circumstances in which judgments are made taken into account by the public prosecutor? The Minister states that this contextual review is taking place and that in practice it determines whether an expression is punishable. That review also took place in the case of Fawaz Jneid's rulings. How does the Minister reconcile the assessment of the prosecution with the assessment of the National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. The Minister then suggests that a legislative amendment specifically regulates the punishment of crimes in the sphere of insult, defamation and slander, if the committing of these crimes poses a danger to the security of the offended person. My group considers this to be a very valuable suggestion and we must look at it. Does the Minister intend to take the initiative in this matter to the Chamber, or does he leave it to the Chamber at the moment? I do have one more question. If this provision had been incorporated into the law, would that have led to a different assessment of the preacher Fawaz Jneid's rulings? Mr. Chairman. In the letter to the Chamber, the Minister also set out how the United Kingdom, Belgium, Germany and France deal with extremist preachers within justice and regulation. They too know freedom of expression in a similar way as we know it in the Netherlands. I welcome the fact that the Minister now intends to carry out additional research, because the legal systems of these countries are not entirely comparable, the matter is also complex and the local approach apparently differs. I would ask the Minister when he will work on this and when the Chamber will be able to see the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u81	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now turn to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u82	Madam President. It is a good thing that we are having the debate again today as a result of this fuss about the statements made by imam Jneid. You may wonder if it is appropriate for the House of Representatives to talk about individual matters, but I think this is a good way to discuss it. We are looking at whether our Code of Criminal Law is adequate, sufficient, for where we come into contact with it. That is why I welcome the analysis that we have received from the Minister, because it deals in detail with these articles of law. You can only help the discussion if you are indeed looking into a concrete case what is happening and why no prosecution is taking place. The suspicion is that this is typically a case that lends itself to prosecution and yet it does not. On this point, we have now been clarified, because the Public Prosecutor's Office believes that the description of threats, defamation, insults and the like in this case is not fulfilled. And the D.A.'s office is about that in the first place. My group, the SGP, considers that to be unsatisfactory precisely because, on the other hand, we are also faced with an appeal in an administrative case in which the same person is subject to an area ban. This was done after the administrative judge considered not to be malicious allegations sufficient for an area ban. Then it's about someone who also actively spreads jihadistic ideas. Then it is precisely someone who has actually influenced people to make more work of the jihad with everything that comes with it. Then it is unsatisfactory and then my question is first of all to the Minister whether this is the case. Isn't even the demands of the lightest criminal offence met? Isn't there too much restraint in prosecution in cases of this kind for fear of a mischief in court? On the other hand, you could say: bring these border cases to justice and pursue an active prosecution policy, because then we will eventually see where the limits of current criminal law lie. That is why I would strongly invite the Minister to reflect on that. He should not do that in this individual case, because I do think it goes too far to do so in a parliamentary debate. In these cases you feel "it is a bit of a border issue and it seems that there is not quite enough..." and then perhaps it is good to encourage that there is persecution. This does justice to the justified fuss that is about it and also makes it possible to draw clear lines for the future. Mr. Chairman. On the basis of the fact that there is no prosecution in this case, I have another question. I could have said 'in this kind of case', even though each case must of course be weighed separately in the context of the person concerned and the statements made. That question is what we could do to further strengthen the Code of Criminal Law. My group is, however, driven by the suggestion made by the Minister himself to bring about an independent criminalisation of insulting and offensive expressions which endangers the safety of persons and is at stake. Does the Minister really want to continue with this? I would welcome initiatives, but my group would also welcome research as a first step. I would like a response from the Minister on that point. A second question concerns the provision on inciting hatred. That is not satisfied in this case, because it was not aimed at people, in the plural, but at one person. Is it not too far-reaching that in the provision on inciting hatred it can only be about groups? Couldn't inciting hatred towards one person also be punishable? That is the second question I would like to ask. Thirdly, I would like to ask whether we can look into the advantages and disadvantages of a digital ban. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u83	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has been said about the run-up to this debate. I don't have to do that again. It is important that we speak today about what is now before us, an interesting letter from the Minister. He indicates that we have a wide range of possibilities, both administrative and criminal, but that you might want to consider tightening up our Code of Criminal Law on one point; that's how I read it. In fact, we are in a situation in which very incorruptible statements, which, as far as our group is concerned, actually amount to a kind of misconception that could take dangerous forms, can apparently be made unpunished. That makes us powerless to act. As a chamber, we have made it clear to each other that we find that very worrying. I am always fascinated by the fact that we say: do not touch our code of conduct; be cautious. In the meantime, we know that with the same statements and with the same figures, judges, officers and ministers, we have taken a step towards an administrative approach. We therefore believe that it is bad enough and that this person should therefore no longer be allowed to enter certain areas. I am always surprised why we would not want to take that step in criminal law. Why don't we go see if this could be brought before a judge? I clearly sense the need to take that step. I'm very happy about that. We can therefore expect a proposal shortly in which, as the Minister points out, there will be an amendment to the provision on criminal offense which we already have, slander and slander, if the commission of these crimes threatens the safety of offended persons. I think that's an important step. I would like to hear from the Minister in his term that he is actually going to do so. One day I learned that I cannot announce a motion, but let me at least say that I want that to happen eventually and that we will finally be presented with that proposal. Then on the digital. It's unsatisfying. I feel that we should gradually understand that everything that is happening in the physical world also has a digital version, with which we must learn to deal better. We have actually taken steps ten years too late in the area of vice legislation. We are now going to reflect on our Code of Criminal Law, looking at the whole of vice law and digitisation. I'm a little afraid that if we don't take an important step now, we're gonna be in a situation where we might start thinking, in ten years' time: wait a minute, we might have to do some things digitally that we can do now in the physical world. I understand the limitations, but in what way can we organise a digital area ban? There is a big difference, I think Mr Groothuizen was right to point that out, but the question is what can be done. Can you even demand from someone that he doesn't go on the Internet in some way? I'm not saying that you can't then apply for your DigiD or that you can't borrow a library book anymore, but that you can't make such statements in a religious atmosphere. Shouldn't we be looking at what's possible in there? Finally, on this point. Then what is left of the need we have, in the whole context of that notice-and-take-down? Shouldn't the platforms also act better so that things like this can't just happen? Let us be honest, after the recess, we hope to talk about our bill on the criminalisation of the glorification of terrorist violence. Until then, in all honesty, I think it's only gonna help a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u85	Mrs Van Toorenburg just announced that we were talking about her initiative law on glorifying violence after the recess. We probably do not fully agree on that. But you never know; the debate is still taking place. If that bill were to be adopted, would Mr Jneid's statement be included? I didn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u86	This person has made other shocking statements at various times, namely that the assassinations in Toulouse should be followed by a great deal of follow-up. So he's probably already in jail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u87	This debate is about the statements made by Mr Jneid about the mayor of Rotterdam, implicitly declaring him apostate which required the mayor to be protected. I say that this is persecutable under the current law. Mrs Van Toorenburg says that we may need to amend the law and her speech ends with her own initiative law. But this statement by Jneid is not to be included in the description of the crime as proposed in its own initiative law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u88	I deliberately approach it in a different way, because we here every time say to each other: look at the context in which someone does this. This is someone who constantly makes such statements, including a statement in which he glorifies violence. In that sense, this is just a thin broth of what this man is really capable of. Then I think it's a missed chance that we didn't pass a law here, which ultimately enables us to act. Then we'll be a lot more. In addition, I would like this legislative amendment, which the Minister is proposing today, to be able to take a step in the end, so that we are no longer powerless when someone makes a statement that we all find intricate, but which will enable us to protect the mayor of Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u89	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u90	Mr President, thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to correct something to Mr Van Raak. Mr Aboutaleb stated last week that he himself sees no relationship between the threats and the debate with DENK. That's what he did on Radio Rijnmond. I think it's good to mention this. Mr. Chairman. We live in a complex society with many actors. A lot of people are interfering in the public debate. That's what opinion makers do, that's what politicians like Geert Wilders do, that's what we do, that's what Mr Afshin Ellian does. Sometimes those aren't nice messages. Sometimes it's a blasphemy and slander, sometimes it's hate-sowing and sometimes it goes beyond that: inciting violence. Mayor Aboutaleb himself participates in this debate; he is also someone who participates in that debate with firm statements. That can sometimes be a nasty world, a world full of threats. When you experience that as a politician, it evokes very primary feelings. I can talk about that myself. I, too, have received death threats and I have reported them. Yet we live in a society in which we must respect the greatest possible freedom of expression. As Aboutaleb himself said: no matter how toxic the message, he must be able to be expressed. If you think it's extreme, if you think it's too far, you can report it. In the Netherlands, we have laid that down very well in Article 137c and Article 137d. It may be that there is an incentive to hate, to offend, to encourage discrimination. That system is dear to me: freedom of speech, unless you cross the border. You report it to the police, the prosecution investigates whether there is sufficient evidence to justify the prosecution, and ultimately the judge determines independently whether there is sufficient ground to convict and assigns an appropriate punishment if necessary. People like Mr Jneid are also taking part in the public debate. He's said shocking things. As annoying as we find that and as objectionable as we find that message, he too, as a citizen of this country, has the right to that freedom of expression. He has the right to participate in the democratic rule of law. That is precisely the beauty of our democratic rule of law, which is the same for everyone. If people think that's going too far, then there's criminal law. That's what Geert Wilders found out. 6,500 people have filed a report and the judge has convicted him. The same applies to Mr Jneid. We need to check if he's breaking the law. That's what happened. This has been discussed twice by the Minister. The NCTV has indicated that, an initial assessment. Three times the conclusion was that he didn't break the law. It's not a criminal offence. That is why we must be careful to limit those who cannot be condemned through criminal law by means of administrative measures in their freedom of expression. I don't understand why the minister would be waving around. Why does he say in the Chamber that Fawaz Jneid isn't a criminal offence and that he can't do anything about it and then, five minutes later, he tells journalists that he can and he's going to investigate? Why isn't he right behind our rule of law? If the D.A. says several times it's not a criminal offence, it'll stop for my party, too. Then we don't go especially because this gentleman proclaims these messages, amends our own laws. Then we are not going to restrict freedom of speech for 17 million people, because this imam must be punished. I don't understand why we see that as an option at all. We just need to stand firmly behind freedom of speech. This applies to everyone and must also be interpreted by the independent powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u91	In this debate, I keep calling on the Minister to prosecute Mr Jneid, because this debate is about that hatred image. It seems that the speaker Azarkan compares my party leader Geert Wilders with such a hate image. If that's the case, I'd better ask the Minister to have Azarkan taken into a psychiatric facility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u92	We are discussing freedom of expression here, which is limited by Articles 137c and 137d. Those are exactly the articles on the basis of which the leader of the PVV Geert Wilders, your boss Mr Markuszower, was prosecuted twice and once convicted. I'm gonna stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u93	I shall now turn to Mr Arno Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u94	Mr. Chairman. Mr Azarkan made a flaming argument for the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u96	I like that and I feel very much at home in that. There's one thing I don't get. If Mr Azarkan gives up so much from the prosecutor and from judges and we all have to follow them, it is very strange that he is so upset about Mr Jneid's ban on the territory. In my opinion, that ban was reviewed by a judge, not once, but also on appeal. Then Mr Azarkan should also say: 'Oh, that is the rule of law, I accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u97	If Mr Rutte has listened carefully, he has heard that I have not said so much that it should be stopped, but that we should be careful and carefully checked. There are critical sounds about that. I am not going to go as far as you say to suggest against the opinion of the prosecution in any way. I just don't understand that. The D66 colleague just said the same thing. I think we should ask ourselves the question: if we want to condemn a person in criminal law, but we cannot do so, do we want to restrict the citizen of this country by administrative measures? We have to be very careful with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u98	Yeah, be careful, that's right. That's why a judge is testing. Eventually, a judge has the final say, not the D.A.'s office. That's exactly why I think the D.A. should prosecute. I'm not saying anything about the outcome, because that's what the judge has to do. This administrative measure was subject to the same scrutiny by a judge. The judge has said that this is permissible and in line with the rule of law. Then there was an appeal. It has been tested again and said once again that it is in line with the rule of law. How carefully does Mr Azarkan want it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u99	Once again, I have indicated in my plenary contribution that we should be careful about limiting people by other measures, because part of the Chamber of Representatives, which has also been proven here, actually believes that this gentleman should be convicted of criminal offences. I would point out that this should not replace it, because it is by doing so that we abuse the right of freedom of expression, which we should cherish with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u100	But I don't think that was the question. Otherwise, you will repeat what you have repeated before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u101	I see that Mr Azarkan is turning around this point. Then you won't get an answer either. I want him to take one thing back. I do not think anyone here has said that Mr Jneid should be condemned. The point is, he needs to be prosecuted. That's something else. Whether or not he's convicted, that's what the judge's gonna do. Mr Azarkan and I probably agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u102	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u103	In this case, you will give the answer yourself. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u104	Mr. Chairman. The Justice's approach to potentially hateful citizens using Article 137d, the hate-sowing article, has taken hideous forms. I refer to my speech as 'The sadness of Article 137d'. Behold the experiences of the good lord Wilders as a result of a verbally baloric moment, in which he cried: "less, less," "more, more." The country's in disarray. Hundreds of officers, officers first, in columns to police stations open to late hours, all yearning for the punitive effect of Article 137d. In the meantime, two hellish staff trials have come to his fore. The government also shows its teeth. The penalties provided for in Article 137d are doubled to two years in prison. Although sheer symbolism is not shy of it, a suspect has never served a day for this crime, but politics is telling us that hate-spreets will like it and that Article 137d is not to be mocked. In this climate the imam Fawaz Jneid appears. Not in a upper room of a Hague cafe, in the midst of law-abiding public, but from the pulpit he addresses his already religious hysteria leaning followers. Aboutaleb is an enemy of the Muslims and conducts a jihad against the Muslims. This is a text from the mouth of a preacher who likes to pour his indulgences, with lust even, with a sadistic sauce. About Theo van Gogh: oh God, deliver Van Gogh a disease that can never be cured by all the inhabitants of the earth. About Hirsi Ali: oh God, blind the sight of Ayaan Hirsi Ali, oh God, get her brain a cancer, oh God, get her a tongue cancer. Considering how Article 137d has been sharpened by judges and the government, you'd think: well imam, that's gonna kill you. Your earlier bloodthirsty lyrics, combined with the perilous statements of today, are going to cost you dearly; Article 137d is not being mocked. That's different than some yelling about more-more or less-less. So what now? As soon as the imam appears in the field of fresh pimped-up article 137d, the minister arrives and declares the working of that article as powerless. The minster, while cherishing Article 137d, abhors the words of the imam, he finds them disgusting, but stands, he says, empty-handed. Unfortunately, Article 137 of the Criminal Code cannot help him. Now, from here on out, a message of hope for the Minister. He can certainly bring about the punishment he wants of the imam by means of Article 137d. In his legal observations on the alleged failure of Article 137d towards the imam, he did not sufficiently realise how much this article can meet him. His letter to the Chamber of 28 May this year shows that this article of law is too shabby. Article 137d is capable of providing wider services to him than the Minister apparently considers appropriate in his modest response to the article. The Minister, hand in hand accompanied by the prosecutor, has, according to his letter, approached the domain of Article 137d too carefully. The D.A.'s office has failed to make three justified arguments about the fence. That's what's wrong with the minister. The first argument. The imam has not only chosen a particular person as a target, as the minister writes, but it has also cast its hatred on the Labour Party and the groups of people to which they belong. The imam describes this group as "enemies of the Muslims," or apostates, and "those who fight the Muslim." The second argument concerns the correct context in which statements must be considered. This certainly includes, as the Minister does not mention, the fact that this imam is regarded as a common repeater. He has already conceived Van Gogh and Ayaan Hirsi Ali a sinister hell boat. And argument three: the powerful effect of the evidence of Article 137d of the evidence, known as "fact of public awareness."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u105	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u106	I have one more page. As such, the imam's supporters, because of specific religious sentiments that are still playing, are quickly committed to violence. If Article 137c had watched the minister and the prosecutor on his property and these three bricks...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u107	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u108	... if he had found the arguments in his garden, he would have gone in a breeze towards the imam. May I make the conclusion, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u109	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u110	The conclusion is that the Minister has considered too premature that the statement of the imam cannot be classified as hate-sowings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u112	Is the Minister willing to take the full contextual...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u114	... to be used in the assessment of the imam's statement, and...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u115	No, Mr. Hiddema, I have to stop you, because you're way past your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u116	May I take the opportunity to make a special offer? It concerns a comprehensive legal coverage of my hand, for the gourmet. It will be distributed to everyone present here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u117	You can do that through the messenger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u118	But I did have a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u119	Perhaps this can be done in the second term or in the event of interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u120	Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u121	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u122	Now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u123	No, in the event of interruption, perhaps, when the Minister responds. Thank you, Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u124	It was close, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u125	Well, no, you're way over it. Really. Thank you. I'm gonna suspend until 6:00, and then the minister's gonna answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u126	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u127	Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating the approach of extremist speakers. The cabinet is committed to tackling extremist speakers who incite radicalisation or insult and threaten individuals. As the coalition agreement literally states, freedom of expression is a great asset, protected in our Constitution and in international treaties. Freedom of expression is not a free pass for inciting hatred and radicalisation. That's where we draw the line. Unfortunately, there are people who use their right to freedom of expression to be extremely negative about others in society and polarize, with the result that people are being turned against each other. We work together at all levels to identify and monitor early signs of radicalisation towards violent extremism and terrorism. Among other things, in the local triangle and in the case consultation Radicalisation, we are looking at how we can deal with this. Extremist speakers from visa-free countries are not welcome and are being prevented. This has been done in thirteen cases since 2015. This can only be done if there is a current threat to a fundamental importance of Dutch society. Extremist speakers who are entitled to stay in the Netherlands or who have Dutch nationality ask for a different approach. The imposition of an area ban is one of the ways to tackle extremist speakers. It is necessary, however, that a person has a radical influence on others and thereby poses a threat to national security. I note that the Council of State confirmed that line in the case of Fawaz Jneid. And if there is any possibility of applying that measure, I am not afraid to do so. There are also many other ways of taking action against extremist speakers. I would point out that even those parts of the Salafist movement in which there is a criminal offence or, from the perspective of the democratic rule of law, have to be dealt with seriously problematic behavior. Mr. Chairman. So we have a wide range of instruments to tackle extremist expressions. The reason for this debate was the statements made by Mr Fawaz Jneid. He's been in the public prosecutor's office for a long time now, the police and the municipalities. It is for the prosecution to assess whether a specific statement gives rise to the suspicion of a criminal offence. The D.A.'s office has reviewed several of Jneid's statements in recent years. We have always come to the conclusion that there was no criminal act. The context in which the expressions were made plays a major role in that assessment. In this case, too, the context has been explicitly taken into account. That's what the D.A.'s office tells me. I would like to point out to your Chamber that the Office notes that it appears that Mr Jneid's statements in publications and in the public debate are brighter and sharper than those expressed in the translation of experts and as they have been taken into account by the Public Prosecutor in a comprehensive context assessment. I shall return to that in the answer to the questions. If there is insult, inciting hatred, inciting a criminal offence or a threat, the Public Prosecutor can prosecute without further ado. This has also happened in a number of cases in recent years. I gave examples of this in my letter. As you have read in my letter, I would like to see whether the criminality of insulting expressions can be better reflected in the measure of punishment if these expressions pose a danger to the person insulted, thus having very serious consequences. Cases where one should think are situations which, if there were indeed a deliberate presence, could be classified as sedition or threat. That's not the point. That is what I want to say, because this evening the word has already fallen for the nastyness of someone, strongly condemning someone for his behaviour and his person in such a way that there is such a negative atmosphere around the offended person that others might take the idea that unlawful or even violent action against that person is justified. That is actually the explanation of the extension of the penal space that I am thinking of. Mr. Chairman. I will stop, because I see Mrs Buitenweg, but I now come to the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u128	Okay. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u129	The Minister is going to answer the questions, but this is an informative question. I think he said that there was a difference between the translation and the text that was spoken. Does the Minister share Dick Schoof's view that Jneid's speech was hate speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u130	No, the D.A.'s gonna write the following at the end of his paper. I think that sums it up very well for everyone. I'll just grab it. The D.A. says that in the context of security measures, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and NCTV must take account of the risks arising from certain statements. In criminal terms, the prosecution says, the sermon is not punishable. It's not like I wanted to suggest that there are two translations or something. I don't think that was in my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u131	I wasn't there at all. It's the word that matters to me. I've been watching two different episodes. I believe I'm going to Nieuwsuur and RTV Rijnmond. Dick Schoof used the word "hate sow." He said: there is hatred. My question is whether that is a conclusion that the Minister shares.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u132	Whether or not the offence is hate-sowing is an assessment by the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Public Prosecutor's Office has made a very detailed contextual assessment here. I refer you to the letter I sent on 28 May, which explains on ten pages what the test has been, also focusing on this matter. In that letter, I refer you to pages 9 and 10, where the Public Prosecutor's Office concludes that the statements are not punishable. It also refers to the crime of Article 137d of the Code of Criminal Law, with an explanation. I can read it to you, but it's all set out there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u133	Mrs Buitenweg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u134	I think this is important, because the NCTV has used the word 'hate sow' in various media. I looked back on it yesterday. And then the Minister says here: you can look at that word from all sides, both criminal and social. But in fact the Minister says that Mr Dick Schoof should not have taken that word in his mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u135	I explained that the rating the NCTV makes is a very different one. It is about whether there is a danger to national security. You can also read in the threat picture that the NCTV deliberately puts the word "waste" in quotes, because it is said that this is an explanation. That's not exactly what was said. This is therefore an explanation made by NCTV in the context of the assessment of national security, and that is a different matter from that of the State at the point of possible criminal statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u136	The National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator says that there is hate-sowing and this is a reason for administrative measures. The D.A. says there's no hate speech and there's no grounds for criminal prosecution. Now, I understand the difference between administrative measures and criminal measures, but I don't understand the difference between hate-sowinging and not hate-sowing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u137	The National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security makes an analysis based on national security. He also makes an analysis together with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police in relation to security risks. In the context of this test, a certain non-criminal explanation or qualification has been used. I have just said that, for example, a number of things are also placed in quotes, to make it quite clear that this is an explanation that serves to underpin national security. Let me be clear about this: the ban on the territory of the Council of State, which I have also said in the introductory text, has a test that is related to the danger to national security. So that's a slightly different test than the criminal concept, with a criminal-criminal description.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u138	That's all not clear. Mr Jneid does not seem to have literally said "apostate" and "enemy of Islam" when it comes to Aboutaleb. But he did put that same Aboutaleb in a list of Muslims for whom those predicates do apply. The arabist Jan Hoogland says that it is difficult to interpret that sermon differently than that Aboutaleb is characterized as such. That's as an introduction. The question is: how can it be hate-sowing in the National Counterterrorism Coordinator, while it is not hate-sowing in the Public Prosecutor's Office? I don't do that work, but if the D.A.'s office is going to investigate it, I can't imagine them not making a call to the National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator to ask if there's any hatred or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u139	In my letter of 17 April, I gave a factual account of the contacts between the services concerned. That's more than just a call. I therefore think that you are seriously undermining the content of this consultation. I'd like to explain it again. Again, there is a distinction between the purpose of the NCTV's assessment and that of the D.A. The NCTV must present threats as early as possible. The NCTV has involved Mr Jneid's sermon in the analysis for the purpose of determining the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands, which is published quarterly. This is an explanation of certain situations in the light of trends in national security. This also involves situations where there are no criminal offences at all. That's a completely different goal from the D.A.'s office has. The Public Prosecutor's Office must assess whether there are criminal offences. It's a repeat. I'm sorry, but I don't have another answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u140	Listening to the Minister, I wonder if we are both talking about the same National Coordinator. Whoever I am looking for and who has become me out of this dossier speaks of an implicit threat, albeit not explicitly, but implicitly sure. That is to say, it's lurking. And then what's lurking? The danger of self-direction. Is that criminal or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u141	The National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security, Mr Schoof, was on Monday evening 26 March in the broadcast of Nieuwsuur on the occasion of the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands, which came out that day. That had an extensive paragraph on extremist speakers. I refer to what I said earlier. That is the framework within which he spoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u142	Then I can guess in what context he has spoken, because the statements of the imam are life-threatening, he finds, although implicitly, a human being, in this case the mayor. He's got security now. If that poses a danger of self-direction for that mayor, the National Coordinator, and the mayor, "cost"........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It seems to me a little miraculous that the Minister can remove that connection by saying: that has nothing to do with the personal security of human beings, because then you are in the middle of criminal law. Let me try to understand what the Minister means implicitly. Then it seems to be a very different interest where the National Coordinator sees bears on the road. As I have read it and as the Minister himself has said, you read your own report, but his statement is also taken into account by the Minister in the question of whether Aboutaleb is criminally relevant. No national security!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u143	I have just said that the assessment of the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security does indeed include possible threats, what could happen, and that in this case, the security of the Mayor of Rotterdam. By the way, that's what I do in the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u144	Not what could happen to security. With the person of the mayor!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u145	The National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security is closely involved in the assessment of whether and at what level personal security should be provided by the Mayor of Rotterdam. I also said in the same debate on 27 March and on 3 April when we talked about the extremist speakers that there was and still is personal security for the Mayor of Rotterdam, no matter how terrible it is that it is necessary in our society. This is based on the risk assessment of the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u146	Then we're out. This debate, this exchange of opinions, at least shows that we are talking about the same National Coordinator. Well, that's pretty obvious by now. The same National Coordinator fears for the mayor's life, because he thinks it should be protected. Fear of good or life falls under criminal law and hits 137d, from which the minister continues to disassociate stubbornly. It's weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u147	I don't know what the question is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u148	Good. That is probably a conclusion from Mr Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u149	A conclusion that could raise a lot of questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u150	That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u151	No. The conclusion is on Mr Hiddema's behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u152	Then I'll go to Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u153	It is important that citizens understand what is criminal and what is not. The penal code states that hate-sowing is a criminal offence. Then our National Coordinator on Counterterrorism on television talks about hate-sowing. Then the Minister comes up with a whole argument that one is a threat and the other is something quite different. Doesn't the Minister at least regret that NCTV used the word "hate sow"? Does he regret this choice of words?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u154	The National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security has explained the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands. I have indicated that this threat is using terminology that should simply be seen within the framework of risk management, including in the area of national security, which is of course primarily but also in the area of personal security of individuals. In this context, I have talked about all the preventive measures that are being taken. I have perhaps shortened this in my introductory texts because I do not have to present you with an introductory text for too long. The National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security is precisely here to make sure that we are ahead of business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u155	Perhaps in order to be even more enlightened, because it is important that everyone assumes the same concepts. The oral explanation may have made it all a little more unclear. I have here the Threat Picture of Terrorism The Netherlands 47, which is written under the authority of that Dick Schoof, of this minister. It was published in March 2018. There's just page 7, and I'm just quoting literally once, that he's the dangerous imam Jneid "the Rotterdam mayor Aboutaleb qualifies as a hypocritical, opportunistic and apostate Muslim." Then I skip a little bit and then it says at the end: "It is also possible that with the use of the characterisation of "waste" he initiates self-direction." So that is that threat image that was written under the authority of this minister by, I assume, Dick Schoof, the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security. It uses the word "dirty" twice and assigns it to that hate imam. Then we, the Netherlands, can assume that what is in that threat picture is true and that the oral explanation may have caused confusion? And if I may assume that that is the follow-up question, which is indeed true, then the Minister can comment on the following. The moment the imam calls another Muslim apostate, that is equivalent to a death sentence and is therefore a brutal appeal to violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u156	I told you before that terminology between quotes has an explanation. That's one. And two, and I repeat: that threat is precisely to do what the National Coordinator is for, to warn against possible risks and to indicate where we should use security measures preventively. That's his job. That's a completely different task from the D.A.'s office. The Public Prosecutor's Office is in the Netherlands about whether there are criminal offences and then whether they are going to be prosecuted. That's another weighting. It's two very different functions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u157	First of all, in that first sentence it is not written at all between quotes. That seemed like some kind of weakening of the Minister, but it just seems to me like a literal quote of what was said there. Secondly, I fully agree with that consideration, because that is actually true, but of course we can all deduce. So if it's true that the imam has classified the mayor of Rotterdam as a renegade, then the minister can and must, then the Public Prosecutor must take that into account. Then they must have the knowledge of the teachings of Islam, mustn't they? Then it must be clear to all those people that that is a call for violence? Because it's a death sentence when an imam says about another Muslim that he's an apostate. Is that specifically taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u158	The Public Prosecutor's Office has carried out a comprehensive context assessment. As was also the case in the first period, two different parquets have assessed this. This context assessment has shown that one of the offences could not be prosecuted, as I described in my letter of 28 May last.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u159	The Minister talks in circles, and I do not like that, because we need to move forward in a debate. I understand that there is a distinction between administrative and criminal measures. I get that. I don't understand why there are different kinds of hate sows. If the National Coordinator says there's hate-sowing, that's no different than what the Public Prosecutor says. And that says: there is no hate-sowing. Would the Minister care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u160	I'm gonna repeat it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u161	No, no, no, no, no, no. Not another circle. An answer to this question!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u162	The assessment of the National Counter-Terrorism and Security Coordinator is not based on criminal terminology and descriptions. He's got another job to do. Well, I don't have another answer. That's not a circle. That's a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u163	So the National Coordinator has a different Fat Van Dale than the Public Prosecutor's Office and there is another word "hate" in it with a different definition. I don't believe it. I think there's only one Fat Van Dale and there's only one kind of hate sow and not two or three or four. The Minister refuses to accept this, and that is not possible, because that is at the heart of this debate. The Minister just needs to give an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u164	There's a description of a crime in the Code of Criminal Law of hate-sowing. The Public Prosecutor's Office has concluded that in this case that description of the offence has not been complied with. This has also been explained in detail. I took that in my letter of May 28th. That's what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u165	Yes, you did. That's right. Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u166	I think I have now managed to make it clear that I do not agree with the arguments put forward by the Public Prosecutor that Article 137d is not applicable. Question 1: Is the Minister prepared to form an opinion on the quality of the opinions given to him by the D.A. in the sense that they are valid?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u167	I wrote a 12-page letter based on the public prosecutor's notice, based on conversations with the public prosecutor's office. I think that's a responsibility of mine. I was already convinced that the D.A. just made a careful assessment. That was me from the beginning, and I still am.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u168	So the Minister's report is based on his own conviction. That makes it interesting. Is the Minister still convinced that 137d is out of application because the hate image has tainted only one person with hatred?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u169	Yes, as far as the question of the mayor of Rotterdam is concerned, because that is what we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u170	As far as the imam is concerned, the issue is a bit more nuanced, because he does not only interfere with the mayor but also with the Labour Party and the entourage around the mayor, who conduct a jihad against Muslims.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u171	This concerns the issue of the Mayor of Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u172	That's what you think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u173	Good. We're gonna keep going around in the same circle. I would therefore like to suggest that the Minister move forward. I also want to know how far you are, because there have been many interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u174	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I will deal with a number of things per theme. Mr Kuik, Mr Markuszower, Mr Buitenweg and Mr Van Raak had a number of questions concerning Question Time. One important point was: did the Minister have sufficient information during Question Time to enable him to give a ruling on the statements? Yes. I indicated during Question Time that Mr Jneid's statements were not classified as criminal by the prosecution. I based myself on the assessment of the Public Prosecutor's Office and all the information that I had taken note of in the context of the decision-making process, including the decision-making on the extension of the area ban. That is information that has just reached me, and which was sufficient to inform you properly. In the letter of 17 April, I also set out the exact facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u175	Were you now working on Mrs Buitenweg's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u176	Well, perhaps it would be a good thing to say a few words about Mrs Buitenweg's question and also Mr Van Raak's question, if I have not stopped all the room for the public prosecutor. No. In the previous debate, I based myself, as I said, on the judgment of the Public Prosecutor himself. So I didn't just talk. After Question Time, I had the content of that assessment clarified by the College. However, the prosecution came to a clear and clear conclusion: the conduct is not punishable. These are reviews that date from January 2018. You've seen that in the facts. I would also like to respond immediately to Mrs Buitenweg's next question; at least I mean that, but it could have been Mrs Kuik. She said, "Didn't that second sermon analysis take into account?" Two things apply to that. First, that sermon analysis was sent to the Office in Rotterdam on 25 January. You can see that in the facts. She was also discussed with parties in another consultation in The Hague. So we have been familiar with this. I've asked the college again in abundance. There has been no reason to think otherwise. Finally, this sermon analysis of the NCTV will bring us to a point where I do not wish to repeat another objective other than that of the prosecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u177	Did you deal with all of Mrs Buitenweg's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u178	I thought I was...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u179	No, I'd like to know if you've answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u180	At this point, I thought. There were still some questions from Mrs. Chicken, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u181	Good. We must put a little bit of pace into it, however important it is, because we have more debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u182	Then what did the minister apologize to?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u183	Did I say I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u184	Well, in his letter, he says it would really have been wiser if he had spoken to the college before. And now he says, well, that wouldn't have been necessary at all. So what is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u185	I think the misunderstanding has arisen... In the letter of 17 April, I did indeed say how that information had reached me. Because apparently the impression has arisen that I had had discussions with the College on this matter before 27 March. I would also like to stress that this is not standard or mandatory in these situations. But I wrote in the letter: listen, I should perhaps have been clearer in the debate about how that information has reached me. But I had that information. I'm still in favour of that, too. It didn't change after that either. If the impression or misunderstanding arose that I had already been in contact with the College of Commissioners before 27 March, I did not say that on 27 March; let that be clear, at least that is out of the way with the letter of 17 April.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u186	Yes. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u187	If, according to the Minister and his staff, it had not been necessary at all to have real contact with the College of Attorney General of the Public Prosecutor's Office, then it is quite a coincidence that early in the morning, on the day of Question Time, there was a quick contact? This shows that the Minister felt it was so comfortable to have this at the top of the public prosecutor's office before going to Question Time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u188	There was no contact that morning to ask what was going on or anything like that, because that was already known since about the end of January. You'll find that in the facts too. It was known to me, by the way, because I asked for this in the context of extending the ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u189	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u190	Finally. Then I conclude that the Minister says that it would have been wiser if he had spoken to the college before, but that is purely cosmetic. At the same time, he does not want to acknowledge any error of substance, while I think that, because he did not agree with the content of the college, he then made it extremely difficult for the College to take a different position in its decision of two days later, 29 March, than he had taken unilaterally here on 27 March. I blame him for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u191	It's not a question, but I'm responding anyway. This is just not right. It's not supported by anything. I indicated that the Public Prosecutor's Office concluded in January both in The Hague and Rotterdam that there was not enough for prosecution and that that message had already been sent to me. I made that clear here on 27 March. And I also indicated to you that the College said very clearly that it did not make any difference to the substantive assessment, in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u192	Good. You had arrived at Mrs. Kuik's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u193	I had another question about this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u194	Yeah, I'll give you the floor in a minute. I would like to look at how your speech has been built up, Minister, so that I can take that into account in the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u195	I have already assessed a lot of cases in connection with interruptions, Mr President. I'll take a look...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u196	Then I'll go see Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u197	I have one more question on this point. The D.A.'s initial assessment was based on the first threat analysis. Then came the second threat analysis. The Minister says that it has been accounted for, but not by himself. Then the minister was here and he said: you can count on me having had extensive contact with the state's attorney's office. That turned out not to be the case, because the D.A. said: yes, hoho, the Minister says something that doesn't add up. That makes me ask again: did the D.A. consciously include that second threat analysis in its consideration? And how does the Minister know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u198	Yeah, the D.A. took that. That's one. And two is that when I spoke here, I based myself on the fact that there was a wide-ranging discussion between officials in January and February. That is also clear from the facts. The fact that I was aware of this at the time also has to do with the fact that I myself was very involved in extending the ban on the territory of Mr Jneid at the end of January. I repeat that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u199	Mrs. Chicken, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u200	We cannot take back those contacts with the D.A. on the basis of which the D.A. finally drew its conclusions from the facts. Perhaps that is in the Minister's head, but we cannot take that back from the facts that we have received by letter. And then there is my second question, which I repeat. Then how did the prosecution react so indignantly to the statements made by the minister in the Chamber? He said, "I've had extensive contact." Apparently, the public prosecutor then felt compelled to say: ho, ho, ho, we are not at all in extensive contact. They felt offended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u201	I don't know anything about that last outrage of the D.A.'s office. That's something that started singing around at some point. I am also in regular contact with the Public Prosecutor's Office on this issue. And at that time too, that contact was good. In fact, I say to my mind that two days after 27 March, so on 29 March, I also discussed this with the chairman of the college. There I have not been outraged at, because I would have done or said things that caused indignation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u202	Finalizing, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u203	I conclude that I have not received any answers to any of my questions, because we cannot trace back from the facts when the prosecution has been contacted about that second threat analysis and whether they have deliberately made a decision on it. I note, however, that the prosecution was indeed surprised by the statements and that they felt the need to express themselves publicly about them. Because that's what they did. And three, that you're gonna be in touch with the D.A.'s office after a debate because you're gonna have to make it smooth again, I get it, but that's not something you've done in advance. These are the conclusions that I regret to draw.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u204	On page 2 of the story of the facts I see it: on 25 January it was sent to the District Attorney's office Rotterdam. It's just in the letter, and that's one. Two, now it's amazement, but first it was outrage at the DA's office. Three. I told you that I said here on 27 March that the prosecution has looked carefully at it, and that is the basis of what has been discussed in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u205	Then I suggest that you simply answer the questions that have not yet been answered briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u206	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. I'm going through it fast. If that is all right with you, I am going to answer some of the substantive points that have been raised, because that is what we have to discuss. Mr Groothuizen had a question about the article of the WODC. Mr Groothuizen referred to an article that had appeared in the journal Judicial explorations. That magazine is published by the WODC and contains articles by authors who write it on their own. You know the rest of the story about the restraining order. There is now a ruling of the Council of State of 30 May 2018. You know I extended the restraining order in January. Moreover, this extension still needs to be reviewed by the courts, and I want to make that very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u207	Just to get it real sharp. The Minister says that the article was written in his own right. Does he mean to say, "We did not ask for it? It has just come about spontaneously and that is why it is not in the timeline and that is why I have not taken into account my decision to extend that ban." Is that how I'm supposed to understand him? It was a bit of a cryptic sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u208	It has appeared in the journal Judicial explorations. That is a magazine of the WODC but there they regularly invite scientific authors to write an article. That's how that article ended up in here. But it is not a piece that came to us after a request for advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u209	That's a clearer answer. It's clear. I ask, of course, because Nieuwsuur has reported that it would indeed have been written at the request of the department in the proceedings against Mr. Jneid. I understand the Minister says that's wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u210	In a previous life I myself have been in two scientific editors. It is very common for the editors to invite authors to write an article entirely freely on a particular subject. And that's what's happening here, I understand. Let us also make it very clear that it is a critical article. You and I don't disagree. Mr President, I think enough has been said about what has been said or has not been said in Mr Jneid's case. So I'm gonna leave it that way. Then there's the digital area ban. Mrs Kuik in particular asked a number of questions about this, as did Mr Van der Staaij. The decision of the Council of State concerns the legality of the area ban imposed. We must be very careful: that is a heavy test, which is linked to dangers to national security. It is based on behaviours that linked Jneid to terrorist activities. This is not about banning certain expressions. It is only prohibited to be physically present in a particular area. The Council of State therefore notes that this may in fact restrict freedom of expression but, according to the Council, it is a prohibition on the territory imposed on the basis of conduct prior to imposition. That cannot be seen, according to the Council of State, as prior leave to perform certain expressions. Then it is said that it is not contrary to the Constitution. I admit that you need to get this legal, but this is why the council says it's not some kind of pre-control of freedom of speech. A digital area ban is meant to do so. Every presence on the Internet is by its nature made out of expressions. Then you do come out to censor in advance. As I explained in more detail in the letter, I do not want to repeat all of this here. For that reason and for a number of practical reasons, this is not a viable way. I would like to emphasise, through you, Mr President, to Mrs Kuik, the following. At European level, we are clearly concentrating on notice and take-down for terrorist content and hate speech and so on; Mrs Van Toorenburg referred to this. There are appointments with the major providers. I myself am one of the people who push and drum very much to make sure that that group gets more and more expanded. It is not just a matter of notice and take-down, but also of encouraging the discussion of whether the content in question should not be transferred to the fight against terrorism of the European Union, so that it can be investigated. But the latter is a discussion that we should not be having here, because it brings together all kinds of other criminal principles. So much for the digital area ban. Then there's the punishment of insult.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u211	In a subtlety, the minister said something that I found interesting. I don't want the whole discussion of what is hate-sowing and what isn't stirred up, but what kind of hate-sowing applies when we're talking about notice and take down and hate speech? Does the criminal standard apply? Is it the international standard, is it an administrative standard, or are those terms somewhat related?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u212	It is too far-reaching to go all the way, but these terms are even more complex internationally, also because we are dealing with 27 Member States now. There will be a letter very soon, as I say, from my mind, to explain that we are indeed also seeing whether we in the EU can fit as much as possible into the description of crime. But there are objections to this, because you are dealing with criminal law, and now there are 28 and about 27 Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u213	That it's complex, I believe. But suppose Mr. Jneid had made the statements he made online; maybe it was. Could these statements, which the Minister claims would not be punishable by criminal law in which he always follows the prosecution, be eligible for a notice-and-take-down procedure, because they are hate speech in that context? Could that be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u214	I can't promise you that that would work, I'm afraid, because if I did, I would have pushed it very hard to make sure that was possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u215	Mrs. Chicken, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u216	Always, Mr. Chairman. I still have a question about the digital area ban. I understand that physically it's something other than digital. But at the same time it serves the same purpose, namely to prevent someone, in this case a hate preacher, from speaking out. The fact that you're using an area ban for that is one thing, but at the same time, virtually physical and physical is virtual. Therefore, once again, consider my question to introduce such a digital ban. I've already indicated that this is not something new. In a different context, too, we are well aware of the phenomenon of people being banned, for example, from engaging in social media. So it's not a novum. It is simply an administrative instrument which, as Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly said, fits in with the modern world.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u217	Let me say two things. Tomorrow I will speak to your Chamber again about cybersecurity and, in the wake of that, cybercrime. A report has just been presented to me by the Koops Commission on how to modernise criminal proceedings in order to meet the digital age much better in the long term. Through you, Mr President, I say to Mrs Kuik that I fully share her view that we need to focus very much on what society is already like and how it is going to become much more digitally. The point here, as I mentioned in the letter, is that, in addition to the legal problem of the prohibition of free speech in advance, there is also the problem of the digital area ban that there are all kinds of practical and easy ways of getting that content on the Internet by other means, for example by a third party. Then we will have the problem of putting a lot of enforcement on it, while we will see to our great annoyance that it is happening through the back door. The difference with reality is, as we can see now, that at least Mr Jneid now has no access to the area where he had already taken root, namely part of The Hague, during the ban. So he has to move to places where it's a lot less easy to spread his message.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u218	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u219	Again, that digital has the problem that accomplices or others can ensure that you can bypass it. Then parliament and cabinet stand by powerless.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u220	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u221	I simply do not share that conclusion with the Minister. Jneid has now made it very easy for himself to circumvent the ban by going on the Internet from his lazy chair. How easy do you want to make it human? In addition, he can catch the train and go to Amsterdam. So you can also circumvent a land ban of this size. Of course, it's even more complicated when it goes digital, but the world is changing and modernising, and you'll have to adapt your legislation to that, no matter how complicated. So I'm just gonna file a motion because I think this is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u222	You're free to do that. I suggest you go to a conclusion, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u223	No, I'm going to the next point, because this wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u224	But also to a rounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u225	I would like to say something very briefly through you to Mr Van der Staaij and others. I said that we could consider including this in criminal law. But I did so for the following reason, which I mentioned in this Chamber on 27 March and also on 3 April. I think this is a very important subject, which is also a real focus of the cabinet. Freedom of speech is a real good thing. But as a society, we need to look at what we can do to people who threaten other people's lives, sow hate and express that other people have to come with high security. This is not part of our society. That is why I would like to come back to your Chamber with a more elaborate idea of increasing the penalty at the point of the kind of insult that I have briefly described as baffling, the fierce condemnation of someone who puts that person in a threatening situation by people who take it that way. I admit, through the chairman to Mr Van der Staaij and others who asked, that after the recess, in the autumn, I will return to that in a more detailed and motivated form.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u226	Mr Grothuizen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u227	Yes, a brief question, Mr President, thank you very much. I heard the Minister make a commitment to Mr Van der Staaij to come forward with that further elaboration. Is the Minister prepared to take particular account of this? I am very curious to know what the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary think it should look like and whether they find it enforceable and applicable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u228	I say this immediately, and I would like to inform Mr Grothuizen, through you, Mr Grothuizen, that, even for the very rough form in which I wrote this letter, I have carefully asked the practice about it. I'm not gonna compromise them on this right now, but I've promised that I'm definitely gonna involve them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u229	Would the Minister also include an analysis in that letter as to whether, in the present case, a different opinion would have been possible if there were such a description of the crime? That was my first-term question, but I would like the Minister to include it in his analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u230	The answer to that question was to Mrs Van der Graaf: no. In the current situation you can see that the person is moving in an extremely convenient way along the limits of what is permissible. I repeat, in my letter I mention examples from the case law where a person has been convicted. I shall return to Mr Rutte's question in a moment. I think it is important to include this in our criminal law, because it sends out a message out loud that once it comes to insults of this kind, I call this misconception 'we find it highly criminal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u231	Then I don't quite understand the Minister. He says: if there was, it would not have led to another judgment, but I think it is an important signal. I would ask the Minister once again: would it be a tightening-up and could it possibly lead to prosecution in practice if similar cases were to occur? Why else would you include anything in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u232	I'll start with that last one. Because it clearly punishes the kind of extremist speakers when they put their feet out of the door. Mr Hiddema has pointed out a number of things that have been said in the past. I am talking about 2003-2004. Through you, Mr President, because then I will answer those points immediately, and I say that this is the kind of statements that I think are made by a person. That was the case at the time, but not now. That is the kind of talk that I think we should not accept. We shouldn't put the penalty by insult, which you can do if someone calls me an orb or something like that. I don't know if this is a good example. You have to say that we think that's serious. You flagged someone with this and basically declared semi-bird-free.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u233	I think it is a good thing that the Minister is doing a more detailed analysis of what is possible, also in the light of freedom of expression, its possible limitation and the tension that it creates. I'd like to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u234	I just want a quick...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u235	I also see Mrs Van Toorenburg standing, I see everyone standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u236	... respond to Mr. Rutte's and Mrs. Kuiken's questions at the point of inside and outside the Chamber. Let me say straight away in one breath: yes, we are working on this international investigation. This is being tendered at the moment, I say through you to Mr Groothuizen and Mrs Van der Graaf, and I hope that we can quickly report on this. Mr Rutte has asked me whether I would be prepared to give the Public Prosecutor a more or less indication on this point. At some point he said "even a clue." I don't think I should. I believe that the Public Prosecutor's Office has clearly justified why it says that even with a comprehensive context assessment, criminality cannot be concluded. The D.A.'s been on this for years. I don't think it's right to suggest that the D.A.'s always taking the safe side. In my letter, I mentioned a few examples where the Public Prosecutor's Office has actually dealt with people who were then sentenced to the Court. It is precisely on a subject like this that is about freedom of expression, and we see that in other things that have been going on in recent years too, the Minister should not give a clue. This must be done independently by the Public Prosecutor and it must also develop itself further in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u237	Have you answered all of Mr Arno Rutte's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u238	This was actually the highlight of Mr Arno Rutte. I understand very well that it is a bit difficult in this debate and his annoyance about this kind of talk. The biggest annoyance, in my opinion, is that we must see that our mayor in Rotterdam is at risk. I think that's the worst part. I would like this to end as soon as possible. But unfortunately that is a reality where the NCTV...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u239	Mrs Van Toorenburg, I will give you the floor in a moment, but first I would like to know from the Minister how far he is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u240	I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u241	What's "almost done"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u242	I wanted to say something to Mrs. Kuik through you about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u243	I thought you'd already answered Mrs. Chicken. Then I'm going to see Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u244	I would like to know the following in a very specific way. Will we only receive a letter on what the legal provision may look like, a little more extensive than has been the subject of today's debate, or will the Minister come forward with a concrete legislative proposal? We would like to see a bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u245	That can be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u246	I want to promise that I will come up with a concrete legislative proposal, because we need to move forward with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u247	Okay. Mr. Arno Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u248	I would like to say that I have asked the Minister to have an intrusive discussion with the Public Prosecutor and that if the Minister felt that he should use his powers of direction, I would support him in that. I didn't tell him to do that. Apart from the above, the Minister just indicated how sorry he was for Mr Jneid's older cases. He was talking about blotting. I agree with him very much. I also agree that he is coming up with additional legislation. This supplementary legislation is about a higher level of punishment for a crime that should be punishable even now, but there is another qualification, because someone could be in danger of being threatened with death. Does the Minister implicitly say that the old cases, which the prosecutor always said were not punishable, could have been prosecuted, regardless of whether they should have been prosecuted?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u249	I don't think I should say anything about that. That's, to speak to Koot and Bie, long before my time. That would not be right for all concerned. I do, however, refer to the statements made today by Mr Hiddema as saying in public that someone should die in a terrible way as baffling a person.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u250	It's still complicated. The minister says no matter what happens, I'm following the DA's office. The D.A. is a state power, but not as independent as justice. In the past, the D.A. has assessed this kind of statement and has ruled that it is not a criminal offence. The new criminalisation which the Minister would like to send to the Chamber, with an increased sentence, would not change that. Then it is strange for the Minister to say: that has happened in the past, but I would actually think very differently. Now he says: I'm just following the DA; we're not doing anything about it; I'm not going to deal with that intrusive conversation. I don't understand. I find that uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u251	These are statements made more than ten years ago, in which I am thinking in particular of the terrible fate of Theo van Gogh. I have said that the kind of statements made by Mr Hiddema are statements which I would say we should include in our criminal law in cases of insult. But I am not going to say anything about the way in which it was dealt with ten years ago. I don't think that's right. Then I must also know all the circumstances, but I do not think that this is the job of a Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u252	I will then go to Mr Markuszower. You have two more questions that haven't been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u253	Yes. These questions are in themselves a follow-up to the discussion that has just taken place. One of my questions is whether the Minister and his prosecutors have taken note of the free advice given by the legal professors Ellian and Paul Cliteur, who say that you can prosecute on the basis of Article 137d. I haven't heard from the Minister yet. Meanwhile there is also a piece of eighteen pages by Mr. Hiddema, who also says that you can continue. I wonder: if a minister is going to have a debate, will he just read out what he has prepared, or is he really prepared to exchange views with the Chamber? Furthermore, I have asked that question again, which has not yet been answered, whether the Minister is prepared to instruct the Public Prosecutor to proceed to prosecution. The Minister replied in the negative. Then I ask the Minister at what point in time he would like to make use of his powers under Articles 127 and 128 of the Law on the Judicial Organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u254	It is quite right that Mr Markuszower should touch on the point of substance. I'm grateful to him for that. This letter is by someone who had to judge him, somewhat admiring, qualified as a graduation thesis. The letter is very detailed in his nut machine. That doesn't have to say everything, but I think it's like someone who was a scientist until October 26th. When I read such a letter, I myself must be convinced that it is a good, scientifically substantiated legal argument. And I can assure you that when the letter was drawn up at my ministry, it was a very substantive, scientific test. There may always be people who think because of their skill that there may be something else possible, but I strongly support this letter. I have already referred to a question which I have just asked whether Mrs Buitenweg's or Mr Groothuizen's letter had been said to be very high.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u255	The Minister is entitled to his own opinion and qualification of this document, but it seems as if that letter, in particular with regard to 137d, mainly excludes that it would be a grounds for persecution. That would be the case, because it would only be about the threat and the call for violence against one person, the mayor of Rotterdam. But it has also been argued, also by people here in the Chamber, that it is a broader group. And that is not only a group of ten years ago, but also for example the entire PvdA. That may be a bit less members than it used to be, but still a lot of people. I just don't understand why this article is being interpreted so selectively and narrowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u256	Especially after the rather intensive debates we had earlier, on 27 March and 3 April, on this subject, I personally paid a great deal of attention to the letter, as I have to say. I know it's been looked at carefully. The letter contains a very balanced, substantive explanation. I would like to add the following through you, Mr President, to Mr Markuszower. I have already said a few times in the debate that the worst thing in the end is that a mayor of Rotterdam should be guarded in our society. When I was young, you had Mayor Thomassen of Rotterdam. He kicked off at Feyenoord's championship game, and I can assure you there was only a suppoost at the time, and he was the only one with a uniform. That was in 1970, a long time ago, but still. We must focus on the fact that a mayor of Rotterdam needs to be guarded and we must say: how can we in any way prevent this kind of thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u257	Finally, Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u258	I'm sorry, but I'm gonna try one more time anyway. This is not an answer to my question. I'm gonna be very specific. The letter is about the threat to one person, Mayor Aboutaleb, and that's bad enough. In your opinion, has there been any consideration as to whether you could use 137d because it concerns more people? For example, the entire Labour Party is also called an enemy, and these are more people than one. Can you respond specifically to this point and not always say that you like the letter so much?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u259	This letter is about possible criminal offences in connection with the threat of the mayor of Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u260	I believe that the profit of the debate that the Minister has gone beyond his letter in his commitment to come forward with a legislative proposal to criminalise the blotting out, which could endanger the safety of persons. Does he consider other forms than a precise connection to the insulting article? Perhaps grievous expressions do not need to be based precisely on the current description of offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u261	That is precisely the point where I made a commitment to Mr Grothuizen. I think it is important to join the existing description of the crime. I did it on purpose. But perhaps we still need to make some variation in that. I would like to know from the experts in practice whether that is not putting the horse behind the cart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u262	But in terms of wording, does the Minister see the necessary scope for filling it in in such a way that it does indeed have as much added value as possible and does not unnecessarily restrict freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u263	Yes. That's what it's all about. That is what I said in my introduction. Freedom of speech is a great asset. Let's make that very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u264	I really want to come to a conclusion now, because there is also a second deadline. Mrs. Van der Graaf, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u265	Yes, I understand. I would like a clarification from the Minister. The Minister is now announcing a legislative proposal, but I would like to know a little more precisely from the Minister what that bill is looking at, because in his letter to the Chamber he mentions two options, on the one hand a separate description of the offence and on the other hand a grounds of punishment. I would like to have some clarification from the Minister. What kind of proposal is he coming to the Chamber now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u266	I would ask you not to go into that in detail either, because the bill is coming to the Chamber anyway. Then it will be discussed in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u267	I would like to reply very briefly to Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u268	Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u269	Very briefly. I have just made the letter a little open on this point, because I want to have a review of experts from practice and theory on what would be the most appropriate route. In any case, within that one paragraph, I describe the objective in terms of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u270	Then I fully understand to the Minister that he leaves open the option he chooses and sends it well-founded to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u271	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u272	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u273	Mr. Chairman. I think I have now responded to all the points. If there is anything else, I would be happy to reply in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u274	Thank you. Let's move on to the second term. I give Mrs Kuik the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u275	Mr. Chairman. One question is still open. On 25 January, the second analysis was forwarded to the police and the prosecution. It is still not sufficiently clear whether the public prosecutor actively did something about this, also because it was not present at the meeting on 30 January. As far as I am concerned, that question is still open. Has the D.A. taken an active decision following the second threat analysis? As announced in the first term, I do not agree with the Minister's analysis in substance. Physically, it's becoming more and more virtual. That is also why we are now trying in all possible ways to tackle, for example, vengeance porn, sextortion and other issues. So I also think that a digital ban on territory would fit with that arsenal and you should at least investigate it. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas hateful messages are also distributed via digital channels;]] [[Whereas the Council of State considers that the ban does not constitute a preventive control of expression but rather a prevention of repetition of conduct and therefore does not conflict with Article 7 of the Constitution;]] [[Whereas restrictions are already being imposed on the use of social media in order to prevent stalking;]] [[Considering that a targeted digital area ban can contribute to the prevention of hate or other crimes;]] [[calls on the Government, in line with the Temporary Law, to allow for the fight against terrorism to be prohibited digitally,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-107]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is in itself a sad conclusion of this debate. A life-threatening imam threatens many Dutch people, including the mayor of Rotterdam, and he has been calling for years, also recently, for violence that can affect several people, not just one person, and perhaps already be. But what does this minister do? He doesn't attack the imam, he opens the attack on freedom of speech. Of course, the minister could and should instruct the prosecutor to prosecute this dangerous imam, Fawaz Jneid, for openly calling for violence. That is why I am tabling the next motion together with Mr Geert Wilders. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that DTN 47 of March 2018 states that imam Fawaz Jneid has qualified Rotterdam mayor Aboutaleb as a renegade Muslim,]] [[Whereas apostasy in Islam is punishable by the death penalty;]] [[noting that imam Fawaz Jneid by declaring mayor Aboutaleb de facto calls on him to kill and thus incites violence;]] [[noting that inciting violence is a criminal offence and should be prosecuted;]] [[calls on the Minister of Justice and Security to give the Prosecutor's Office an indication of how to prosecute imam Fawaz Jneid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-108]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u277	Thank you. Mr. Groothuizen? No. Then I go to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u278	Mr. Chairman. I thought it was a complicated debate. On the one hand, the Minister says he had enough information to say what he wanted to say on 27 March. It is then clear that, just before Question Time, he wanted permission from the summit of the Public Prosecutor. There's already a tension. The second threat analysis shows that Jneid's comments were actually a form of hate-sowing. But the minister says that that would be a different kind of hate-sowing: we have different kinds of hate-sowing, and that has nothing to do with criminal prosecution as the Public Prosecutor does. Still, that threat analysis is being sent to the D.A.'s office. So why? The Minister says: I only want well-founded legislative proposals and a real scientific test, such as when it comes to that ban. Everything must therefore be well substantiated, but then he has now passed a bill in no time, which he said an hour ago he was only thinking about. I understand very well that the Minister of Justice is keen to show decisiveness, but I would also ask him to be, above all, well-founded, calm and careful as Minister of Justice. Specifically. In the proposal, he said he wanted to table a bill. This will be either the more severe punishment of insulting expressions that pose a danger to the offended persons or the existence of a separate crime. I would very much like the Minister to find out more clearly what the added value of this separate crime is. I do not believe in that heavier punishment, and I hope he will carefully find out. Then we can quietly look at a bill. In that order, and not overstretched, because this simply affects the foundations of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u279	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Arno Rutte on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u280	Mr. Chairman. I'm standing here with an uncomfortable feeling. Ever since 2002, the Public Prosecutor's Office has repeatedly concluded that the expressions of hate imam Fawaz Jneid are not punishable, even if they are very serious. The D.A. never tried to bring Fawaz Jneid to justice. So we won't know if it's a criminal offence. Nor does the Minister in any way express his willingness to say to the Public Prosecutor that this can no longer be done on a social level. We can't wear this in society. This is just not right. I have to go to the Attorney General because he's the only one who can do it. He's the only one who's in any way in an authority relationship with the Public Prosecutor's Office. I understand that the Minister may wish to bring forward a new crime, a criminal offence which could have serious consequences. I'll support that, too. But that doesn't take away the problem. If that insult isn't prosecuted, it's not gonna matter. It doesn't change anything if you come up with this, referring to earlier statements by Jneid. That doesn't fit. Or this minister should have thought that there should have been some way to prosecute. I will do the last thing I have left: I will come up with the next motion, which I would like to make on behalf of Mr Van der Staaij. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Public Prosecutor's Office may choose to pursue an active prosecution policy;]] [[Whereas the Public Prosecutor's Office can thus contribute to the development of case-law and provide insight into the scope of the law;]] [[Whereas there is social unrest about the space that seems to exist for hate images to spread an undermining message of intolerance and hatred;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the Public Prosecutor's Office to pursue an active prosecution policy in the field of expression offences by extremist preachers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Arno Rutte and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-109]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u281	I was having second thoughts, but I'll tell you. We've been working on the VVD for almost two months now to see if there's anything we can do about prosecuting the Jehovah's witnesses for sexual abuse. All we hear from the VVD is we're not gonna sit on the D.A.'s chair. My question today is: is the VVD just going to sit on the chair of the Public Prosecutor's Office in a concrete situation? That's okay; I want it too. Can the Labour Party, GroenLinks and the CDA also count on the VVD in these other debates?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u282	The VVD is always very hesitant and that's what I am when it comes to steering from the Lower House towards the Public Prosecutor's Office. It's gotta stay that way. There is a problem here that there is a pattern that has been dragging on since 2002. Every time the D.A. says we don't do it, we don't prosecute. Also in view of the social unrest, I think that the Minister should not use his powers of direction. He may do it from me, but it is not necessarily necessary but at least to enter into the conversation and must say that we do not want to do so in this way, because this leads to so much unrest. That's all I want. That seems small, but it's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u283	This is the second term, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u284	Shall I conclude very briefly...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u285	Yes, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u286	That is also the only thing the Chamber wants with regard to the people who appear to have been abused in a pattern within the Jehovah's witnesses, which leads to enormous social unrest and which at least Mr Van Oosten says: we do not participate in it. I'm glad it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u287	That really is a completely different matter. I wouldn't want to make the connection. It is also a very serious matter, but something quite different from what is going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u288	Thank you. Then I'm going to see Mr Van Raak. No? Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u289	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We feel the need to be able to tackle the extremist preachers and also the inconvenience that this entails at the stage we are now in. But I also sense what Mrs Buitenweg just said, namely that we need to look carefully at this. This affects the rule of law, it affects fundamental rights, it affects freedoms. We need to be able to take a good look at that. The Minister has just announced that he will send a bill to the Chamber, but he says that he has not yet fully determined the direction of thought or will see it more on a criminal grounds or on an adjustment of the description of the crime. The Minister is still consulting with the D.A. and experts. At the moment when he has put his mind together and has a good basis for the direction he thinks he should go with the bill, I ask him to first share that direction with the Chamber so that we can discuss this with each other and only then send the bill to the Chamber. I ask the Minister if he is prepared to share it with the Chamber first when his mind is finished. The letter that is now on the table calls for a further elaboration. That is also what the Minister exchanged with us in the debate. I'd like to ask the Minister for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u290	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u291	Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I note that it remains unsatisfactory that, in the situation that led to today's debate, the case will not ultimately be judged by the judge. I thought Mr Rutte's motion was a very sensible one, which is why I would like to have co-signed. The Minister is not called upon to give a concrete indication that this is a very special figure which could give rise to a politicisation of any issue, but to use it as a reason to ask and promote active persecution, especially in cases where borders are so clearly sought. Then I would like to table a motion myself, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the offence incites hatred (Article 137d Sr) does not apply when statements are directed at one person;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the inciting of hatred directed at one person can be punishable and to inform the Court of Justice of this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-110]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u292	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to express my thanks to the Minister for the fact that I still have nine seconds of the anti-verkettering law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u293	Thank you. Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u294	Mr. Chairman. I fully endorse Mr Van der Staaij's last words. Of course, the Minister has to look at what is feasible and he comes up with a proposal and we will have to weigh it, but it is something that we think is important. At times I thought it was a bit of a schizophrenic debate here today. We really want something to happen, but we don't want to sit in the state's attorney's office, but we actually want to. We want, and I hear the Labour Party today, a little bit, not actually restricting freedom of speech, but a digital ban. I think it's all blessed, but just tell each other that we want to take action. Don't hide from the PVV, too, often do so behind freedom of expression; all these legal provisions must be removed. We'd like to be able to force someone to shut up. That's what we stand for. And as a CDA, so do we.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u295	Mr Markuszower, brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u296	I was mentioned. I think I was very clear. I do want the Minister to sit in the chair of the D.A.'s office, because the D.A. has done nothing and does nothing about that Jneid, and neither does the Minister at first. I said quite clearly that we had to sit on that chair and I asked if the Minister would like to use the designation power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u297	Here in the Chamber we've been talking to the PVV for ten years. They want to delete all those provisions on insults and hate-sowing, and I'm glad we have them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u298	Yes, yes, yes, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u299	This isn't about insults. This is about inciting violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u300	Good. Finally, I will go to Mr Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u301	Madam President. I'll be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u302	Mr. Hiddema, what you just told me, please report. You must report it in the microphone, otherwise it will not be in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u303	Mr President, I have distributed a note and would ask you to make this document available to the CIP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u304	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u305	Madam President. I have listened to the Minister and I tend to speak the language of an imam. Lord, give me patience, God, and please a thick skin! How can you exist to listen to this and take it seriously, with all due respect. What's this about? A life-threatening sujet within its own environment, a state-of-the-art monstrosity. And the minister can't go anywhere, because the D.A. says it can't be done. And then when you ask why the D.A. can't do it, you're all gonna get platitudes. Then a careful study has been done, a detailed consultation has been done and all kinds of processual things and things. Why can't I? We haven't learned a damn thing from it. That's why there's only one motion. We've got to put pressure on it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister has complied with the opinion of the Public Prosecutor that Mr Fawaz Jneid cannot be prosecuted for his hate speech against Mayor Aboutaleb;]] [[noting that the judgment of the Office reported is not based on a factually correct and complete representation of the context in which these statements were made, namely:]] [[not considered earlier for death and torment of fellows begging calls of the imam;]] [[the imam has indeed been guilty of inciting hatred against more than one person;]] [[the additional danger posed by his statements due to his religiously prone followers is not taken into account;]] [[At the very least, an implicit call for violence or other criminal offences can certainly be made if a religious authority accuses a Muslim administrative officer of apostasy and the conduct of jihad against Muslims;]] [[Whereas, in the event of a proper review of the chances of a sure-fire prosecution of imam Fawaz Jneid 137 WvSr, the Minister will certainly be able to offer a solace, for which I have provided you with a comprehensive legal basis;]] [[calls on the Minister to ensure that imam Fawaz Jneid will be prosecuted under Article 127 of the RO Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-111]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u306	I have a brief question for Mr Hiddema. Are you prepared to change the motion? Somewhere at the beginning of his text it says "inciting hatred." If you would like to make it 'incite violence', I would be able to support her wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u307	To hate? Then I'd have to take a look at the motion again. I'll talk to you about that. It doesn't matter to the imam, so I'm sure it will.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u308	Thank you. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u309	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had three more questions first. First of all, there was a question from Mrs. Kuik. Was the second analysis of the NCTV taken by the D.A.'s office? Yes. I will not go into what I said in the first instance, namely that the NCTV analysis has a different perspective, but all right. Then there was a question from Mrs Van der Graaf, but she also brought forward one of the other Members of Parliament. There's gonna be an extensive consultation. Such a bill also passes through the Council of Ministers and then it goes back to the Council of State and back. So there will be a very comprehensive substantive confrontation in advance as to whether the bill will be met. In doing so, I have promised Mr Grothuizen out loud today that I will at least include the practice in that consultation. But I do think that I should come up with a well-motivated, well-considered, substantively sound and well-tested legislative proposal in consultation. Mrs Buitenweg mentioned the choice between separate crime or criminal grounds. It serves both the same purpose: to punish more severely for serious insults which, as we have already discussed with each other, result in a misconception and a violent condemnation of the person concerned. That is what I said in the first term. The choice should be made so that it works properly and is enforceable. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u310	Madam President, may I say one thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u311	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u312	Very briefly. The point is that there would be a ground missing. I get it when you say you're going to name offensive expressions that pose a threat to the safety of the offended as a separate crime. I can also imagine that you would propose to punish this more severely, but if you were merely to impose heavier penalties, you would not have the basis, which you say is missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u313	In my first term following an interruption by Mrs Van der Graaf, I immediately said that the kind of statements we are talking about today are still not punishable in exactly the same context assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u314	Good. That discussion was over. I suggest you proceed with the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u315	The motions, then. I have five motions. First of all, the motion for a resolution by Mr Kuiken/Van der Staaij on part No. 107 on the digital area ban. I'm deceiving that motion. Also for the sake of time I refer to pages 12 and 13 of my letter, where I have explained in detail why a digital ban does not make sense. Once again, it is censorship in advance and the Constitution does not allow it. That is not going to work, but apart from that, on pages 12 and 13 I mentioned a whole catalogue of practical objections. The Markuszower/Wilders motion in part No. 108 requesting a lead. I've given a lot of reasons why I'm not really going to give a clue in situations like this. This is about freedom of expression. I think that the prosecution should be able to pursue that policy. I must, of course, be able to answer to you. I have to follow that closely, but I'm not gonna give you a clue, especially on this case. With that I immediately have the motion Hiddema in part No. 111, because it has the same effect. I therefore refer to the same argument. Then there's the motion in part No. 109 by Mr Arno Rutte. For this, I refer to page 6 of my letter, where I said that the public prosecutor is pursuing an active prosecution policy in the field of expression offences. I am not going to read all this now, but I see this motion as a support for policy. For it has also been clearly stated that it is not meant to be a clue. So I'm leaving that motion to judge Chamber. The only motion I have to discuss is that in part No. 110, because the motion in part No. 111 I've already discussed. It concerns the Van der Staaij/Van Toorenburg motion in which it is requested to investigate how the inciting of hatred towards a person can be punishable by the Chamber. I don't recommend that motion. The criminalisation of inciting hatred has an international origin in the UN Convention against Racial Discrimination and the EU Framework Decision on Racism and Xenophobia. There lies the legitimacy for that restriction of the right to freedom of expression, which is not evident. Inciting hatred is an indeterminate concept which becomes sufficiently concrete within the context of the group to be protected against discrimination and its characteristics. I am not going to work that out, but we really need to be careful in the context of these international conventions; I therefore advise against this motion. I also hope, through you, Mr President, that Mr Van der Staaij-Van Toorenburg will no longer be able to vote in favour at least with the announcement of the anti-verkettering law. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u316	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-10.u317	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
