ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-2.u1	I will open the meeting of Tuesday, 2 October 2018. The next item is the commemoration of the Sulawesi disaster. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand as far as possible. On Friday we received the first reports about the earthquake and the tsunami that followed: a double natural disaster on the Indonesian island of Sulawesi. In the following days we heard about the rising numbers of deaths and the enormous damage suffered. Houses, shops and cars were grabbed and destroyed by waves of up to three meters high. Roads and bridges have been destroyed, trees uprooted. While reports of more and more victims, deaths and wounded reach us, there are still areas where aid has not started because of destroyed access roads. More impressions than the actual data made the images, stories and sounds that have come to us. Extensive plains full of debris against the scenery of green trees. The panicking man who tries to warn people as the tsunami approaches. 34 dead children found under the rubble. They were together at camp. These images make the grief, the fear, the panic, the suffering so tangible. For us, too. Our hearts are with the people of Sulawesi, anxious or in shock. People who can't be home because of the destruction and aftershocks, but live in tents or in debris. Those relatives or friends have lost, or are in fear of missing relatives. Those who, due to the disaster, do not have access to sufficient food and clean drinking water. And our heart is with the rescue workers who, under these difficult conditions, are working very hard to save as many people as possible, who are trying to save the dead as quickly as possible and who are committed to the mental and physical health of everyone affected by the all-destructive force. It will call for Indonesia's inhuman resilience to continue to cope with and cope with this disaster. We wish the people of Indonesia much strength and strength. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. Sometimes the destructive power of nature almost exceeds our imagination. Like last Friday and the days after. We see the images from Indonesia and we register the messages, but it is hard to understand what huge disaster Sulawesi has been hit by. First a massive earthquake, followed by that high-level, all-intoxicating tidal wave and then the unbelievable havoc, chaos and destruction. The distress and disbelief on the faces of the people, who have often lost everything. Images of complete defeat and desperation. And the stream of reports of increasing numbers of victims, which we unfortunately have to assume we will be hearing for some time to come. We are powerless against such natural violence. What we can do is offer our help in a situation where suddenly everything is lacking. To clean drinking water, a dry sleeping place, clothing: the most basic things. We can do something in that, even from our country. And that's what we want to do. Through our embassy in Jakarta, by enabling emergency aid via the Red Cross as a cabinet. But also as a society, by helping the Red Cross to help. Because the people there need that help very, very much. Madam President. Earlier, on behalf of the Dutch government, the King transferred our condolences to President Widodo and the people of Indonesia. Today we commemorate the victims. We sympathize with their families and other relatives, and we think of all the people who have been driven away from home by this disaster and who have to build a new life. As you said, the aftermath of this disaster will be long and hard. We can hardly imagine how difficult it is to return to life in these circumstances. That requires comfort and help first. And right after that, courage and strength. That is exactly what we wish all affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-2.u3	I would ask everyone in the Chamber to observe a moment of silence.
