ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on the Digital Message Box MyGovernment. I welcome the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, the Secretary of State for Finance, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. Five MPs have signed up. We have four minutes of speaking time and two interruptions in two. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. What do you mean, "My Government"? was the title of the Ombudsman's report. Because there is a lot going well, but also a lot wrong with the digitisation of the government. It is also very good that there are the two main State Secretarys here, the Home Secretary, who is talking about it, and the Finance Minister, whose report we all have to make digitally. Public communication must be understandable to the citizen and the citizen must be at the forefront, not the cost. The costs are also often much higher than we think. I would like to put the first question to the Secretary of State about the activation process of that Message Box. There was a lot wrong with that, because people didn't know they'd activated anything. How has that been adapted by now? I also see that there is a repeat notification. I didn't know it existed. Would the Secretary of State like to make them more public? One point we've been talking about for years is the authorization of the Message Box and the Tax Office. If you want to help someone on one thing specifically and then we often talk about filling out tax forms, that's not easy for everyone to find.Then there would be an authorization to authorize that person exactly for that, without having to give away your DigiD. We would hear in 2018 when that authorization will come, but we've been hearing that for years. I would now like to know when that authorization will be issued and when, second of all, the push messages will arrive. My city's giving me a push message telling me to take out the trash. That's what my wife always points out to me. For the Government Message Box we still have to wait for the app, let alone the push messages. That can be so important with important information. The most important communication often takes place with the Tax Administration, therefore a few questions to the Secretary of State for Finance. If you do your stuff neatly online, the IRS will only keep it for ten years, while they can reclaim 12 years. There is a commitment from a year ago that it will be considered whether the returns can also be kept online for 12 years, so that it cannot happen that you will receive a post-claim in 11 years' time, but will not be able to find the return if you want to check it, because you should have downloaded and printed it. I don't think that's desirable. Then the previous government has abolished the financial contribution for organisations that want to help people report, e.g. older people's associations. Does the Secretary of State still want to see if he can help these organizations? We see that the aid for the declaration in Gouda stops. Are there any other locations where the HUBA is going to disappear? And then what happens instead? One more question for both rulers. The National Ombudsman's investigation shows that hundreds of thousands of people do not look in their Message Box for a whole year. The fines are really stacking up, and you're getting messages. The government, the executive agencies, they know you're not reading those messages, and yet nothing is being done. Is it now arranged for these people to be written by post? And can these people, as the Ombudsman recommends, go back to paper? Sometimes they have accidentally applied or someone else has done it for them. That was a recommendation and I cannot yet see whether people can say: I would rather have it back on paper. Can we hear from both Secretary of State twice a year or twice a year how big the group is who doesn't see his mail and who doesn't see his mail online, and how these people are approached? That is essential information. Finally, a very small point. People abroad would like to communicate digitally with the government. When will it finally be settled that they will be able to activate their DigiD from abroad, which is not allowed now, and that they will also be able to use the slightly safer version of the DigiD, namely the one with a text message? Now you can only send it to a Dutch telephone number and that is quite annoying when you live somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u3	You are at the end of your speech, but there is an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u4	Whether we solve it all when there's an app and when everyone gets their push messages, I don't believe in that. I think the government is making a crucial mistake here. In the letter we received on 6 December, both directors do so again: digitisation offers many opportunities for public communication or for public services. And while there's just a report that says 2 million people are getting into trouble because of this digitization. I ask Mr Omtzigt of the CDA whether it would not be good if we also recognised that digitisation could cause problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u5	Something went wrong with my request for a debate and my speech. I have requested this debate because a number of things go wrong with digitisation. There are two levels of failure. Certain digitisations are poorly implemented by the government. People sign up while they don't even know they're activating the account. In addition, the alternative must remain. That is why I asked my second last question. If people want to go back to paper because they have accidentally applied, can they? I think that message box for large groups of people can be kept up to date. If it is properly executed, a lot of people will use it voluntarily. I acknowledge that there is a larger group than was originally thought of people who cannot keep up. The number of 2 million could indeed be close to that. For them, the government will have to continue to offer an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u6	Thank you. Mrs. Leijten, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u7	I think it's starting with the government saying she's doing it for people. If these people can't keep up, then we need to step back. Wouldn't it be the best question to these Secretary of State if everyone could be put to nothing for a moment? The Message Box can stay and if you want to participate in digitalization, you actively turn it on. A confirmation e-mail must then be sent. It's all possible these days. If you do not do so, you will return to paper. Then no one's in a trap because someone else signed him in. Next year there will not be another report on all these unread messages. Then we don't have to get a monitor showing whether people are opening their digital mail. Wouldn't that be the best thing to do, just take a step back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u8	Thank you. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u9	No. There is a group in the Netherlands that has great difficulty keeping up. Mrs Leijten is right to draw attention to this. I think that this group should be able to go back. If you turn everyone back to paper, then exactly the group on the other side of the spectrum will report. Those are the people who don't even know how to handle paper anymore. They will ask us: how do you put us all back on paper? I'm trying to find a way in. It is the difficult task of the government to deal with these two groups. I pointed out the people who always want everything digital. It is not for nothing that I mentioned the people abroad who have to do with postal systems that do not work at all. They really want to lead the way. I often notice that when they e-mail me. However, the government also has to do with a group of people who are left behind. That is why I am in favour of several channels, including openness for the group that Mrs Leijten is right to address.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u10	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u11	Mr. Chairman. In advance, I would like to say that I think it is really wrong to say that people who cannot or do not want to participate in digitisation are lagging behind. That's exactly the wrong position. The government only thinks of opportunities when it comes to digitalization. As a result, it has a huge blind spot for everything that can go wrong, especially in a group that is already more vulnerable because they are less linguistic than we all hope and want. Those people understand less of all the messages that come in on their phones if they already have them. That's what we call stragglers. Today it's about 2 million people who don't read their government digital mail or sporadically. It is about important mail, mail from the Tax Office, the UWV or your municipality about decisions, decisions and fines or with important information. This means that people who are already in trouble sometimes get into even more trouble. They're skipping refunds that stack debt on debt or missing proposals for payment arrangements that might alleviate that debt. "What doesn't know, what doesn't bother" unfortunately doesn't apply here. You would expect if the Ombudsman signaled this, the government would say: we are doing something wrong, we are going to send letters again, because at least they come in the mailbox and not somewhere online. The client instead of the resident. It's like the government says "just adjust to our speed" instead of the other way around. Now we have received a letter in which the Secretary of State states that he is not entirely concerned, that it is up to other bodies and that they are able to look at the specific context and deliver customization. There are even municipalities that say: we close the town hall, people have to do everything via the Internet. I think that's the wrong way, and the House of Representatives actually says so. Because two days ago, the House of Representatives said that the Manifest Guilt-Free! provide guidance on the preparation of debt plans. One of the things that's in there is that the government shouldn't do any harm by stacking penance on penance and offering customization to people. But one size, namely that you only have to do it on the Internet, is not customization. You can now indicate in the Message Box that you want to receive mail on paper, but you cannot do that with the Tax Office. The IRS will consult with you. You can ask that. Is that actually in line with the 2016 motion of my then colleague Farshad Bashir? The blue envelope would just stay. Mr. Chairman. When I was preparing this debate and read all the reports, as we know is not yet done by the Scientific Council for Government Policy and all the reports of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, I got a little tired. Because we know that there is a deep gap in our society between people who see and experience the ease of use of the digital government, and those who cannot or do not want to. And not wanting that can have legitimate reasons. Look at all the attacks on the Internet. We know DidiD isn't as safe as we'd all want. There are people who say, "If there's gonna be a government that's gonna drag all the data, I'd rather have it on paper." I think that's pretty legitized. Yet again we see the mantra in the letter that digitalisation offers opportunities for better public services. Yes, and dangers. Surely those two sides of the coin should always be there when the government looks at solutions, opportunities and dangers? Now we have received a letter stating that people will receive an extra e-mail if they do not open the e-mail. I don't think that's the answer. People can take courses if they don't understand. I don't think that's the answer. That is why I would just like to ask the government to do what happened when the electronic patient file was tuned. Everyone was in it unless you said you wanted out. Then it was said, okay, you're in when you've turned that in. So you turn him around. We're gonna turn it off for everyone now. All the people who see the ease of it have turned it on like this. But those we miss get it on paper and we do not neglect it with the desire to do everything digitally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Then I would very much like to give the floor to Mrs Den Boer of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u13	Mr. Chairman. 336 organisations, such as municipalities, the Tax Office and DUO, send their mail digitally via MyGovernment. 7 million people have activated their account and receive less or no post from the government at all. The Ombudsman concluded in September that this was not flawless. D66 endorses the Ombudsman's general message: sending digital mail to the Message Box and leaving it to the citizen to check the Message Box continuously, which does not work. In addition, "the citizen" does not exist. Old people, young people, high or low-literate: knowledge and needs differ. My Government must be set to that. A big problem is the number of activated accounts where no email address has been left and where people cannot be reminded that a message is ready. This represents 17% of the activated accounts. That's worrying. The Secretary of State would like to call people to leave an e-mail address if they log on to MyGovernment.nl again. I don't think that's gonna work. Then these people will have to log in. I would like to call on the Secretary of State to come up with new solutions to this. How does he look at this? In addition, my group does not think it is clear at MyGovernment.nl what the consequences are if you do not leave an e-mail address. Is the Secretary of State prepared to add this and warn people that otherwise they will not be notified when there is digital mail for them? As I said before, the Message Box has to work for everyone, from tech to digibeet. Technological people would appreciate push messages on their mobile phone, so a notification on your phone: there is a message waiting for you. The Secretary of State is working on this. When can we expect the famous app? Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago, a law was passed in the French parliament on the proposal of the party of Macron, the sister party of D66. This law was about "le droit à l'erreur," the right to make one mistake in your communication with the government. The government is not suspicious of the citizen, but assumes that he or she is of good faith. D66 thinks that is a very good starting point. As an example I mention forgetting to check the Message Box on MyGovernment.nl. That can be an unintended mistake, but that makes you get a high fine all of a sudden. Macron's proposal means that you still have to pay your waterboard tax, but you don't get a fine if it's the first time you make this mistake. And so everyone gets the right to make mistakes once. Of course, there must also be exceptions, and perhaps there are government organisations that already have a certain degree of coulance. What does the Secretary of State think of this idea? And what is the state of affairs in the Netherlands at the moment? D66 wants to ask the Secretary of State to look at the possibilities, consequences and costs of a law like this in the Netherlands. Of course, it is not a simple proposal. It is therefore good to look at its consequences. Can I trust that the Secretary of State will also encourage a state-owned attitude of trust, and that he can undertake to look into the law to make you wrong? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u14	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that we are talking today about the digital communication between the government and the citizens. In recent years, there has rightly been a great deal of criticism of the fact that digital communication does not take into account the needs of the recipients of the information, namely the citizens. The National Ombudsman has written an extensive and solid report on the Postenbox van MijnGovernment.nl. GroenLinks is pleased that the Secretary of State recognises the problems in his response to the report and says he wants to accept the recommendations. Thank you for that. But, Mr President, in the field of the digital services of the government, the saying applies: first see, then believe. My group still has a number of questions in response to the response of the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State writes that all kinds of pathways are being set in motion to improve digital services. But during the remodeling, the store just stays open and everything goes crazy. And during the maintenance, which hopefully will lead to a good system, there remains a great risk that citizens will miss messages. How is the government going to ensure that citizens do not walk without their guilt against fines or miss out on objections? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Furthermore, in his letter, the Secretary of State writes that the user perspective has been increasingly central over the past period. That sounds nice, but isn't it rather odd, to be honest, that systems are being rigged in which the user perspective hasn't been completely central? How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that there is a cultural change taking place where the user perspective really is always going to be central? Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State also states that a user survey is carried out every six months for a new functional release. The findings from these studies are taken into account in a subsequent release, a kind of profit warning, with sufficient budget and priority. This passage raises the question of when there is sufficient budget and priority. That's what I'm wondering. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what this means in concrete terms. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is pleased that it has been clearly stated that communication by post will always be possible. This will hopefully prevent new unrest among people who are digitally less skilled or do not want to make use of it at all. Finally, Mr President. The notification and information on messages and the fact that people who do not have a DigiD cannot create an account at all, remain concerns. The Secretary of State indicates that he will continue to seek the most optimal solutions. I wish him every success and ask him to keep the Chamber closely involved in new developments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u16	Thank you, and perfect within the time! I would very much like to give the floor to Mr Middendorp of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u17	Thank you, Madam President. People want a government that speaks and listens clearly, also digitally. The VVD requires first and foremost understandable language and applications. MyGovernment.nl, what this debate is about, is an important step in this. Imagine if you didn't have to go to the store to buy vegetables anymore. Imagine if you could handle your banking business online. Imagine that you can really communicate easily and safely with the government and handle your taxes completely over the internet. In response to the Ombudsman's report on MyGovernment.nl, the cabinet said that it would seek a balance between the worlds of users and the system world, i.e. the world of public service providers. MijnOverheid.nl has really achieved 70 million messages and 7 million users, but the VVD wants to stress that it's not about the system but really just about the people. First of all, those who are not digitally able to participate should keep the option of using the old way of communicating with the government. A much larger group are the people who are already digitally skilled and manage their banking business online, for example. If they sign in to MyGovernment, they should not drop out because the Message Box is not user friendly enough. For those people we have to get started, by building something that is clear and understandable, by developing MyGovernment.nl in such a way that it becomes so user-friendly that people also choose to go digital. Now it is on the site one-sided sending. I would like to ask whether it is the ambition that people can also say something back on MijnGovernment.nl. Once logged in sometimes, if you don't come back, unexpectedly means high bills, because after login no paper messages are sent anymore. What is the problem with asking for an e-mail address when registering? What is against monitoring the use of notified people? Then you can really help people by e-mailing them when there are unpaid bills. Then you can also give people answers without having to go to other government websites. Why can't people choose which instance they want to receive digitally, on paper or both by ticking? And, finally here, how are we going to ensure that more government agencies will use MyGovernment.nl? Madam President. I come to the Tax Office, by far the largest user of the current system. The digital revolution that is now going on can completely change the Tax Administration and thus improve the lives of the people for whom the government and the Tax Administration work. What is the ambition of the Tax Administration? How does the Secretary of State for Finance view MijnGovernment.nl? Is it intended that MijnOverheid.nl and Belastingdienst.nl go together? Madam President. How does it work between BZK and Finance? Did they look together this week how the digital attacks stopped the Tax Administration and MyGovernment.nl? Can they indicate how they're taking lessons from this and how they're looking at this? Much depends on it for taxpayers, but also on the government. About the latter: Have the savings of the Electronic Message Traffic Act from 2015 already been registered with the Tax Administration? I'd like a response. BZK is now building a smartphone option for MijnGovernment.nl. Are examples from outside the government or from other countries, such as Estonia, taken into account for this purpose? Ultimately, we need to build something that is user-friendly, which is understandable and what people want to use. I would therefore also like to call on the Secretary of State to look much into their own mobile phones in the near future to see which apps they like to use themselves and why.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u18	Thank you. Oh, I see another interruption for you, from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u19	A lot of questions from the VVD to the government. I have a question for the VVD, because it seems good that you have some idea, other than 'look at the apps you are using'. You said: why can't people just indicate whether they want to get digital mail, ordinary mail, so mail or letters from the government? I just made the proposal to take the active activation of the digital mail as a guideline. So people can also say: I like to get mail from the Tax Administration on paper, but in the post of the municipality I like to get it through MyGovernment for example. How do you think the VVD is up against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u20	Well, the VVD has been saying for a while that it makes more sense to check if you want to receive something digital. In any case, we always think that people who cannot go digital should be able to continue to communicate with the government in the old way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u21	Mrs. Leijten, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u22	Then the VVD and the SP are close together, only this is how it works. The moment you take a look at MyGovernment.nl you turn everything off: then everything comes digital. You'll fill in your e-mail address, but maybe you'll find it unsafe, because if that address is known, you'll be easier to hack. So it can be more user-friendly, but it can also be dangerous. We know that on the Internet. If you didn't fill out your e-mail address, maybe you're in the fire. So shouldn't you just say: take a look at MyGovernment.nl, but we don't automatically turn off your regular mail? Because that's what it's like now, but you should turn it around, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u23	That's a lot of things at the same time, but the basis is that the VVD believes that MijnGovernment.nl should be developed so that people choose to go digital themselves. The coalition agreement states that people who can't compete in the old way should continue to be able to communicate with the government. We agree, but I think that the system needs to develop so that people want to use it themselves. I would like to give one brief example, Madam President, if I may. When I started banking online, I thought: I want all those papers at home. After two years I thought: I don't need them anymore, because online banking is going so well, that's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u24	Thank you. Mrs Leijten, we agreed to do two interruptions in two, but if you would like to ask a short question, I will allow it this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u25	I think it's dangerous to take yourself as a measure. For example, I like MyGovernment very much. The thing is, when you look at MyGovernment, you turn off all the mail you receive in the mailbox. Let's turn that around, so you turn on the digital mail instead of the digital mail automatically when you look at it. Then we're here, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u26	Thank you. Finally, Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u27	I think I hear the same question over and over again, adding that I should not take what I think of it as a measure. However, the VVD believes that all people who want to go digital should be able to use a good system and choose whether they want to. If they can't do it, they need to be able to communicate with the government in the old way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u28	Thank you. Both regiments have indicated that they need ten minutes to answer the questions. I shall suspend the sitting until 7.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u29	I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On 14 December, we discussed in detail with the Chamber the report "Why My Government?" of the National Ombudsman. I also said that I take the conclusions in the report very seriously. There are some things in it about what is right and what is wrong; some of you have already mentioned this. Things go well in these kinds of processes and things go wrong. The things that go well, we can leave intact and the things that go wrong, we need to improve. That's exactly my bet. That's not something you realize immediately from today to tomorrow. I indicated in the debate that I welcome the research in this sense, that it helps us to continuously improve the process of how we communicate with the citizen. It is, of course, about ICT systems, about very complex issues. It all sounds very simple: involving everyone and giving everyone access to our systems. That is the absolute objective, which is also stated in the coalition agreement. But we are dealing with systems that are constantly evolving. We are also dealing with a group of people who find it very complicated to hook up to these kinds of systems. I therefore believe that the ambition of this cabinet should be that we should be inclusive, that we should include everyone in this kind of process. I have seen in the various contributions of the spokesmen the views of the optimists, who say that digitisation can help greatly in progress and also provide ease of use for citizens but also for the government. At the same time, we just have to acknowledge that, things aren't all going the way we thought. That just means work in progress, all the time. This cabinet took office three months ago. It has set a very ambitious agenda on the issue of digital government, but it has also taken note of the Ombudsman's report and that of the Social and Cultural Planning Office, which clearly states: do not abandon the citizen and pay attention to those who cannot go along. But I also said, inter alia, in the general consultation on 14 December, that we must continue along the road of digitalisation. It's not a choice whether we're going to do that; we're going to do that, because that's the future. We also do this relatively well in the Netherlands compared to other countries in Europe. I was in Europe today and yesterday. I have spoken with a number of Commissioners responsible for digitisation, including the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Ansip, who is from Estonia, a country also mentioned by some of you. That country is really leading the way when it comes to digitisation. But yes, it has also skipped a number of strokes that we still have to make, because it has not built the systems analogly. So that means that something like that takes time. And in a country like Estonia, too, it's not perfect. I would like to point out that in Estonia, for example, so much has been digitised with so much support from the citizen to make data available that it will ultimately be a great ease of use for that citizen, but there, with regard to privacy, an issue which is also very much in the attention of this Chamber is really a different tone from that of this Parliament. As has already been said, it is much easier to make data available to the public authorities. When I look at Estonia, I really see a country that could serve as a guide country for us on this point, with one remark, namely that the vulnerability that has also been noted by some of you is a matter of attention. Because if you digitize everything, you run the risk of being very vulnerable in the event of attacks. Some of you have already referred to that. You have to arm yourself against that. That's what you need to invest in. That is a sort of race against hackers, against people who have evil intentions and want to steal data, criminals and possibly terrorists. That's something you can't handle lightly. In the coalition agreement, we have included that everyone must be able to go digitally and that there should always be the possibility for those who cannot do so to communicate with the government in a different way. That can be by post, but that can also be by being trained or helped or by having an assistant, also on the Internet, for example in the form of a doll that pops up and says: what is your question; can I help you? In this way you can communicate with the citizens in a very friendly and understandable way. I will tell you one thing: if there is one ambition that I personally have, it is that I think that we, as a government, should communicate more clearly and clearly to the citizens. We send letters from time to time that you have to read three times and you still don't understand what it says. If we don't understand what it says, why would people in the country understand? We must be constantly working on this task. So it's not so much about digitization as such; it's also about the way you communicate. Some digi-unskilled people simply have a mobile phone and do everything with it, but there is only a real problem with them when difficult questions are asked and they don't feel that they are being helped if they have a problem. We often throw ourselves wrongly at the hope of digitalisation, when it is actually about communicating. Mr Middendorp also said something about this. He said the government should communicate in understandable language. I wholeheartedly agree with him on that point. I also took the initiative to amend the General Administrative Law Act. This obliges public authorities to provide support, e.g. through helpdesks, via telephone and/or physical assistance. This also means that a right to support is introduced. It is very important that this happens. It's now with the Council of State. It also depends on how soon that law will come into force. But this is what you have to do. If you're gonna digitize, you're gonna have to do something on the protective side. Mrs Leijten has already mentioned this. You have to protect the vulnerable citizen. So you can do the same in the case of legislation. And for those of you who think the paper age was blissful, I'm still surprised that I'm getting blue envelopes from the IRS. I'm gonna let them do that digitally, but maybe I need to set something up and I need to report it somewhere. If you're gonna sweep all that up, I'm gonna say we shouldn't want to. These letters have not always been clear in the past either. So whether it's a letter or a message, it's about reaching the citizen. I think the beauty of this debate is that some of you have set out a number of practical examples of other services where people are being alerted to the fact that something is going on and that they have to do something. I think we should optimize that system in a continuous process. So that just means every time based on user research and also behavioral research on websites.Then the question is: how do people navigate through a website, where do they get stuck and where do they have to go back and choose another turn? To see if we have designed government websites in a logical way. It's a bit like at Schiphol Airport, with the yellow signs that quite logically point the right way. That has been considered, and that also applies to certain smartphones. Then you get to the right point in an almost natural way. You won't get annoyed. Then you don't get the feeling you're left behind as a civilian. That's the ambition I have, but there's a lot of technology behind it. When it comes to that technique, we all know that sometimes it gets a little complicated, because as a government we want to communicate in a safe and reliable way. We'd like to get there as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps I could then answer a number of specific questions, such as those raised by the various spokesmen. Mr Omtzig asked about the activation process. That will be changed, I have said before. It's important that when you're in that activation process, you get the feeling that you're being taken into account in some logical questions that lead you to the right conclusion, as I just explained. Then the conclusion may also be that you're not activating. You are not required to activate, but by means of a step-by-step explanation you will be included in the process. We are doing everything we can to realize this digital assistant, that doll that appears on the website, in the third quarter of 2018. That is not a firm commitment, but that is my commitment. Once it's operational, we want to introduce it, but it has to work and be reliable. We are still discussing this with a number of parties. Mr Omtzig also asked about the reputation of the repeat notification. Shouldn't something happen to that? Yes, I think the conclusion of this debate is that this is necessary. That's what's gonna happen. This starts with the activation of the account, but automatic notifications from MyGovernment about setting up an email address will also point to this. In addition, it is very important to point out the various users of MyGovernment in the communication. That will have to be achieved by the summer. Then there's the authorization. That is an important point. That is not for nothing in the coalition agreement. Mr Omtzigt knows all about this, I think. That also has a high priority. I indicated in the debate on 14 December that it was not so easy to achieve that. My first question at the department was: how can this take so long? There is a lot of technology behind it and it concerns different types of target groups. That is precisely why the matter will have to be rolled out step by step. I must admit that I am presenting a plan of action for the summer, indicating the time at which the solution will be available for each target group. There is a great deal behind that; that is not only a question of technology, but I want to regulate it legally. It is a priority in the coalition agreement and will be implemented in the first year. In doing so, I also intend to follow up on the importance of this issue. Then the push messages. That too is a continuous process. We all have experience with private apps or service providers that do this, so all the possibilities that can be used to alert people to something are allowed as far as I am concerned. The government has to go along with her time, too. It is also interesting to note that, on the last visit to Brussels, I spoke to a number of people who are active in this area in other countries. Many countries have the same problem: how are you going to do this? I would like to take the initiative to take steps within the European Union with a kind of 'coalition of the willing' of like-minded countries to address these issues together. I would like to involve the Secretary of State for Digitalization in France, but also Estonia, Denmark, Finland and other countries that are far ahead of it, because we also fit into it. We have that ambition, we are high on the lists of digitization, but we are all more or less facing the same problems. Then Mr Omtzigt asked when it is arranged that DigiD can also be activated abroad, possibly with text message. DigiD can already be activated abroad at the DigiD desks at many embassies. This week, Curaçao and Aruba joined us. The text's already working, so... Then a question from Mrs...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u31	I see Mr Omtzigt wants to interrupt. Let's do that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u32	I'm still getting signals that people with their foreign phones can't use the text function. They can only do that with their Dutch 06-number. A number of people do, but a number of people abroad don't either. Two years ago, all people with an SVB address could see the government where they lived and apply for a DigiD because this is a reliable address file. Is there any way to ensure, and to come back to that later, that people who are not in that file and cannot apply for the DigiD locally can somehow get a DigiD? I'll let you do that at the front desk at Schiphol if that's easier. There are people who have to live without DigiD for years. They run into them when the government approaches them mainly because of the deadlines or because of a poor postal system because they are far from the Netherlands and are constantly fined. Would you like to come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u33	I would like to assure you that I will look into the situation and report back to the Chamber. It seems to me that I can do that in the next report. If you can do that sooner, I'll do it separately. No problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u34	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u35	Yes. Then I'll come to Mrs. Leijten. Let me put it this way: she had a somewhat gloomy argument about digitisation. I don't think that's necessary. I think digitalization offers a lot of opportunities. We should not be happy in it, we should not be idealistic in it and we should not be naïve in it. I realize it very well. I know a lot of people who don't have anything to do with digitalization, who don't even have a mobile phone and are still at that stage. When you talk about an assistant on your screen, they're like, "What's this all about?" That's a pretty big group. I have already indicated in the debate that I am concerned about using the road to digitalisation. From an international point of view, we do not escape this, not even in contact with other countries. The Vice President of the Commission said it today. If Europe, the European Union, wants to move forward in this area, then you will have to set a number of standards with each other. I understand that, too. But you can walk two tracks. That one track, of the people who can't yet go, I'd really like to walk. Like Mr Omtzigt, I come from a group in which this subject was regularly discussed. It's okay between my ears, but I want to do it in a way that digitization is the starting point and that you're looking at how you can't help people with it. And indeed, that can also be done with courses and training courses. That's customization. I also think that if a citizen gets stuck in this area, he shouldn't have the idea "I'm being crept here," "I'm stuck here in the door." No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm not that excited about the idea of shutting the case down. 'Cause if we do, we're actually going to turn back a lot. Then we'll go back in time. Then we'll tell all those people who are in the system: you need to get out. Then we run the risk of getting out of numbers again. So I don't think that's such a good approach. I really think it's better to approach it this way: people who can't come along can come forward and then they'll be helped. They will then be assisted. Then we'll see what the problem is, because that can be very diverse. For some it's low literacy, for others it's just that they don't have anything with the system. I believe that a government should be there for all citizens, including those who cannot participate in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u36	Thank you. That calls for an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u37	What are we gonna do with those two million people who don't read their messages now or sporadically?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u38	This is also the point raised by a number of your colleagues. This is not so much about "we go back to everything with paper," but about how we ensure that the number of users increases and that the people who participate also get an active insight into the new data that comes in. There are a number of options for this. The e-mail option is very important. Mrs Den Boer mentioned that. How can you encourage people to get notifications via e-mail by giving an address? How can you send push messages? All instruments are permitted. It's not one size fits all. Because one likes one to work with and the other likes the other. In short, it's about getting to that citizen. We are not going to solve that overnight; that is a continuous process. But the ambition is of course that you bring as many people in this process as possible considering the benefits of digitization that I missed a bit in your argument. For example, in Estonia, you have insight into who sees your data, but we are not yet that far in the Netherlands. I'd love to. Mr Middendorp also talked about the grip on data. How can you, as a user, as a citizen in this country, see what data you want to give at all, which organizations are allowed to use it, but also who has looked into it in a system? That is the case in Estonia at the moment. We should also be able to introduce this in the Netherlands. So there is also a lot on the positive side possible. We need to increase people's direction to determine what they do and what they don't want to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u39	Mrs. Leijten, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u40	The Secretary of State is a true optimist. Anyone who asks what we do with those 2 million people gets an optimistic answer, but not really a solution, because I didn't hear them. I do not come up with this opt-in solution, as it is mentioned in this kind of debate. People come in and say, "Yes, this is what I want." I think you'll reach the people who can do this and want to do this, who can help with improvements that would be even more convenient...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u41	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u42	... instead of excluding people who have taken a look at MyGovernment from regular mail. Because now the people who are coming are being excluded from the post unless they have a tick that they want to get. You should turn it around. What's so complicated about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u43	I don't agree with that. I understand that there is an option, but I find it very unattractive, because those who have signed up will then remove you from the system. They're gonna have to re-enlist. This reduces the user density of the system. I would much rather choose the path of information at logical moments, which can also be done by post by asking the people: would you not even want to use this system? I would really like to invite Mrs Leijten to do the same in the debate on 14 December; that invitation was also addressed to the Members of the Chamber at the time to go to Estonia, for example, to see what opportunities there are. 'Cause that's what everybody's doing. The people in Estonia, Mrs Leijten, are of course different from those in the Netherlands, but one cannot suppose that they are by definition all more digitized than the people here. Of course that is not the case, but they all do. So the question is, that's interesting... where that's in it and how we can influence it. Again, I've been working for three months now and I'm beginning to get a little bit of a sense of what that world is like. I can tell you, Mrs Leijten: it is not all that simple; this dossier is quite complicated behind the scenes. I see a lot of opportunities. I'd like to take the Chamber along that route. I wish we could agree that we should help those who can't go, but that we shouldn't go back in time, because then we would actually take a step backwards. I'd say that's a really missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u44	Mrs. Leijten, you've had one interruption. Would you like to deploy your second interruption now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u45	Mr President, I do not think it is so bad to go through with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u46	Then this is your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u47	This is what it's about: 2 million people who don't read their mail and get into trouble. Then you can sit here and laugh or say I'm a pessimist, but I want to solve a problem. I think you can solve the problem by submitting to all those people who, for example, come back to MyGovernment after a year and have not visited the site in the meantime, the choice: you can get digital or paper mail, what do you like better? It's very easy. That's an opt-in system instead of a system where you have to unsubscribe. I think that would be very healthy for those 2 million people you are not reaching and who, because of the optimism of this Secretary of State, who refers to other countries, come into debt and problems and, for example, simply lack opportunities for appeal and objection because they do not receive the post. I would like to talk about this, because that was the reason for this debate. Then you can call me an optimist or a pessimist or say that I want to go back in time, but I think in solutions. I think you can introduce a solution here by reminding the people who are in the system because they once applied, but not using it, that there are alternatives. I think you're going to be a government that's optimistic for anyone who wants to use it, but who's going to be standing next to the one who doesn't want to or can't yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u48	I don't think anyone here is denying the problem. I really know there's a problem. I'm well aware of that. But I don't want to take out those who are in the system right now to help those who aren't in it yet. So we have to turn it around. We must say: we continue on the road we have waged. This development is not determined in the Netherlands, but is global. You can say that it is not, want to put a fence around the Netherlands and want us to just do our own thing in the Netherlands, but that's not how it works. You want to interrupt me, but do me a favor and let me tell you the story. That's what we can agree on or disagree on, let's agree on. I will not call you "pessimist," I will not call you "optimist." I'm a realist. I just want the system to work and get as many people involved as possible. How do you achieve that? By the solutions I have just put forward, by including people in them. Did you realize that tomorrow? No, you didn't realize that tomorrow. I am the last to deny that there is a problem with people who can't go along, but I also indicated that it is not just a question of digitisation, but more so of communication: people point out the possibilities. I'm very tempted. I don't know if you can do that today, that I can trick you into something, but that's what you should do. You have to give people the perspective of getting more user-friendliness, so they step over that threshold. And that's not so easy when you're not doing that digitisation at all. However, it is not an option to stand, to go back. This cabinet has chosen to be ambitious, but it has also literally included in the coalition agreement that we have an eye for those who cannot go along. And here we come with custom solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u49	Mrs. Leijten, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u50	That is why I find it so bizarre that the Secretary of State says that my solution would be a step backwards. It's not that. That's just not a step back. We do not say to anyone who has reported to MyGovernment: okay, now you digitize, because apparently you can handle it. We ask that of anyone who is now in My Government. We ask: are you sure you want everything digital? And I'd probably fill that out myself. But we don't assume it automatically. So you're turning it around. There's nothing complicated about that, but that offers tailor-made work for those who don't like it or can't do it or who say: hey, maybe I want to digitize, but then I need that doll. What's not there yet, and maybe it's coming!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u51	And your question to the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u52	No, the Secretary of State has already given ten times the answer that I am a pessimist and that I do not think in solutions, while I propose a solution that makes perfect sense. That's what we did to the patient's electronic file. That whole system was everyone in it unless you were out. And we've just been able to turn that into: you're in if you want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u54	That is also possible when it comes to My Government. In my opinion, you will then find yourself in a situation where you, as well as staying with the coalition agreement, are optimistic for those who want to do so and can develop it and offer people tailor-made work that does not yet want to do so or that they cannot do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Secretary of State, you do not have to respond to this, because Mrs Leijten herself said that there was no question. But there is another interruption by Mr Middendorp of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Well, I'm standing here as an optimist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u57	Ma'am!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u58	Madam President. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u59	I forgive you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u60	I'm still standing here as an optimist, but that was the wrong start. But that's how the Secretary of State knows me, Madam President. In fact, I would like to put a question to Mrs Leijten. What's against not getting people out of it? That seems to me a bad idea indeed, but to develop the system and do two things? First of all, that is everyone, so the people who are in it and the people who sign up, give the possibility to check whether they want to receive print, mail or both.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u61	Thank you. Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u62	That was 1a. And now 1b: and to ask for an e-mail. If people don't look in the Message Box, they can get an e-mail from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u63	Smart, two questions in one interruption. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u64	Look, Mr Middendorp also signed the coalition agreement. It clearly states the ambition, it states what we want to go to. The main direction is very clear. It's that we want to move on to digitization. Some will say: because that is a choice. Others will say: because it is the only way we want to go. I believe that we have a common responsibility to offer the people who can't go along with it an alternative. So I would like to see it in that direction. I would like to say something about the e-mail address. We have already had this debate on 14 December, even in detail. I'm telling you, I'm willing to do anything to seduce people into leaving an e-mail address. But we can't make that happen. By pointing out the advantages of leaving your e-mail address, namely that you will receive notifications and that you will then be better informed, that you will not run any risks and so on, you hope to seduce people. Let's be honest. A lot of people are on sites and leave email addresses. They then receive advertising material every week in their inbox. And then you think, "Well, then I signed up for something." So you have to take away that cold feet that when you pass on your email address, you're in some kind of system and you're bombarded with everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u66	Let's just do that. That is what I promised, and I want to say it again. Then I'm convinced that there's nothing optimistic about that, I'm really convinced that we'll get more people leaving their e-mail address. Now 17% does not leave his or her email address, but I am convinced that we can significantly increase the percentage of people who leave their email address. There is therefore a continuous campaign to make people aware of its benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u67	Thank you. Mr Middendorp, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u68	Thank you, Madam President. I think I'm even more optimistic than the Secretary of State. Can't it be that people, if you build such a good system that they can tick what they want, eventually just opt for digitalization? Just like online banking, as I have just given as an example. Then we'll both be hard on our signature under the coalition agreement. We digitize by, but seduce people to go along with it and give them the opportunity to choose for themselves. I do not quite understand why we cannot ask people for their e-mail address in the application procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u69	We can definitely ask, uh, that's what I mean by "trick." So I admit that we are going to introduce it into the system. But we can't make it. That's a big difference. I have also explained this in general consultation. So we can seduce people. We can report people: if you pass it on, these are the benefits. Then everyone should say: then it is very easy. You could tell it as some kind of default, which people can click away. You can come up with all kinds of methods as a technique, but I think the goal is the same. We are in complete agreement on that. The main direction is digitization. Of course, we do this for a reason. There is a cost aspect to that. That hasn't been discussed yet, but if you're talking about envelopes and paper... As a government, you try to communicate as quickly and efficiently as possible. Digital can do that faster than with the mail. We must not lose sight of this ambition. Then I'll say it's digital unless someone says he doesn't want to or can't. Then there's that space. That's what the coalition agreement says. That's the job, and that's how I'd like to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u70	Thank you. The Secretary of State continues his speech. I think you were in the process of answering Mrs Leijten's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u71	Yes, and I think I have answered Mrs Leijten's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u72	Mrs Den Boer's questions are next.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u73	I have already answered some of Mrs Den Boer's questions in interruptions. Mandatory can't, I've also indicated that in the AO. But I want to do anything to seduce people to do it. Much is allowed to do so, but we must also look at the legal position. Of course, I'll inform the Chamber about the progress. It's a set trial. We all started this. There is a certain degree of digitization of people who are in the system. If everyone does it, it really works. We will not be able to achieve that, but I do think that we should have the ambition and take all the measures necessary to achieve it. I just explained that. You asked when the MyGovernment app will appear. I mentioned it earlier in the letter, but the launch of this app is scheduled for the second quarter of 2018. So that's about to start.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u74	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u75	The Secretary of State has not yet answered all of Mrs Den Boer's questions. Is it right that he answers all your questions first, and that I give you the floor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u76	Mrs. Den Boer asked for the right to make a mistake. She wants to do that once. It would be a little small for me, because I am often mistaken. But in relation to MyGovernment it is said: in France they do so, so can we not do so here? Of course, we have a different context than in France. At the moment, we already have arrangements that provide for a certain degree of coulance. I do not know to what extent this is the case in France, but those regulations and also the amendment of the General Law on Administrative Law that I have just mentioned are intended not to put citizens who do something wrong with good intentions right away. I also believe that we should do this as a government if we act in good faith. Then, very specifically, on the question of whether I am prepared to introduce what Macron proposed in France: I think we should maintain the objective. The goal is to digitize. Anyone can make mistakes. That is also the case with the Tax Office, but the Secretary of State for Finance can say something about that. If you make a mistake with the Tax Office, you will first have the opportunity to fix it and you will not immediately be hung on the highest tree. That is also the way we should deal with it. I had not heard of it before, but as I just said, I am in the process of making an appointment with my French colleague to see if we can do things together in the area of digitisation. I'm very curious how they do it there, but especially in what context. The whole legal context in which this is proposed in France is different from ours. You can't export that one-on-one to the Netherlands. I would like to say to you that I would like to look into the idea of the French. Then, of course, I want to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u77	Thank you. Can you also set a deadline when you inform the Chamber about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u78	That will be at least before the summer, but as soon as possible. It also depends on the moment that I get that information and make my own weighting on it, but at the latest before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u79	Thank you. Mrs. De Boer for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u80	Thank you for your answer. I still want to stay still at the last block, about the e-mails. You were talking about seducing. That sounds like music to me, very good, but seducing me is a bit multi-interpretable. What exactly do you mean by that? It is very important that citizens are included throughout the process. The consequences are potentially very great if the citizen misses the digital boat. Can you spell out more precisely what you mean by "seduce"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u81	Thank you. It's not February 14th yet. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u82	I can feel something coming, but well, it's just public here and we can just talk about it. No problem. "Tempting" we need to put in the context of indeed raising people's awareness of the benefits they have themselves. It's often the best thing to do. What's in it for me when I hand over my e-mail address? What benefit do I have from that? I don't think it's that difficult to explain that at all, but we have to settle that on the site to make people aware of it. That has to do with how to build a site like this. Like I said, you can turn on a default. Then you just have to enter your e-mail address, otherwise you can't go to the next page. Then people have to go back and think, "Why is this happening? Oh, I have to fill in my e-mail address" and add a helpman or woman who says: this is the advantage if you fill in your e-mail address. That's how I want to do it. I'm just saying that, and then I want to see what the effect is, how quickly we can get that percentage of that 17% down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u83	Mrs. De Boer, do you still need a final question? That is not the case. The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u84	Then I arrived at Mrs Özütok. I must say that your story appealed to me: even during the renovation, the shop remains open. Yeah, that's what the government does. If we are going to work on systems, we cannot say: we are turning everything off and we are not available for six months. That's not the ambition either. So that means very simply that it all has to go on and that we are gradually trying to improve the processes. That's a continuous process. That will not be completed in two years' time either. That will continue. There's gonna be new updates. New technologies will be available and the government will simply go along with that. That really is a continuous process. The ambition of this cabinet and of myself is: let us not fall behind in it, but first, because that is, of course, very nice. If people are used to having all kinds of facilities with private service providers, why can't we build them in as a government? Of course, there are some security concerns about medical data, for example. Of course, these are different orders of magnitude than with a website where you order stuff, but we just have to look very closely at how we're going to arrange it in a good way. This user research is extremely important, because in it you ask people's opinions about how they feel when they are active on such a site. They'll give an opinion. You also want to do behavioral research, and we do that as well, and you look at how people navigate. If they go the wrong way every time, there's something wrong with the logic of that site. Those are ongoing processes that we keep picking up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u85	I see you at the interrupting microphone, Mrs Özütok, but would you mind if we had all your questions answered first? I think the Secretary of State is almost done with this question from Mrs Özütok?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u86	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u87	Well, well, well. Mrs Özütok for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u88	Was this your response to all my questions or just on this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u89	That sounds a little disappointed, but I think it is, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u90	Then I'm gonna do it again. You have for a moment thought about "During the renovation the shop remains open." What I'm worried about is that there are people who are going to miss their messages. How are we going to ensure that citizens do not continue to suffer fines beyond their fault, because they miss those messages?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u91	Clear question, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u92	I actually answered that question in the interrupting debate just now. There are all kinds of ways to notify people, to point people out. Suppose something went wrong in that system, because the question was a little bit: if we're remodeling, can't something go wrong? You can never rule that out, but then again that coulance, that you say: if the government has made mistakes or if you couldn't know and that's the government's fault, then you should have that opportunity to fix that mistake. That is the general rule that applies to the tax authorities, but also in other places.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u93	Mrs Özütok, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u94	Then the user perspective. It is not always clear what that means. Can the Secretary of State indicate that more? What's he thinking about? Should I imagine that there are different user groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u95	Yes. That's a very good question. In the end, you want a representative analysis. If you let go of all very digitizing people on a site, you get different outcomes than letting go of the average citizen on it. We're also doing representative research. Spontaneously, I would like to say that you can ask certain target groups such as the elderly unions to select people who can participate. Then we can see what the problems are in groups that are a little less digitive by nature. You can't create ten sites. There's only one site. Everyone's a bit of a dignitary. Let me give you the example of Schiphol. Everyone understands that you have to follow certain arrows to move in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u96	There is a need for a second interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u97	I am concerned that specific target groups should be involved in the development of a system that should appeal to everyone. They need to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u98	Yeah, once you get stuck, you should be able to get in touch with an assistant very easily. Without having to look up a phone number or write letters, you can type in a question. Until the question is answered properly, he or she won't let you go. Then you feel like you're being taken and you're not an anonymous user of that site. That will not be necessary for some. That site should be as well decorated as possible so that you get as little as possible to deal with questions. Especially people who arrive on that site for the first time and are not used to navigating on it, can be helped. Then there are Mr Middendorp's questions. It is a continuous process of communicating and advertising the site. You need to point people at the tools out there. It is very important that people have a choice. For example, some people only want to be contacted by e-mail. That has not yet been fully realised, but that is the final objective. We're also looking at other countries. That will not work before the summer, but I will go to Estonia to talk to my colleagues about the best practices they have. You can really learn from that. You can learn from the things that work and from the things that don't work. We look very strongly at other countries. We're looking at technology, including in companies. We'll see what's available on the market and what's adaptable. In addition, you have to apply the restriction that you cannot apply the most advanced technique every day. We also want technology that has proven itself. That's the difference between a company that sets up something new and quickly places it on the website and a government that needs to be reliable. The whole thing has to be right. Then the ddos attacks. I'm just gonna assume there's always gonna be one. I don't have the illusion that they're gonna be any less. The fact that there is no damage other than that the sites have temporarily dissipated is proof that the system works. Of course, you'd prefer that those systems are insensitive to any attack. It's a continuous race. The Ministry of Justice and Security is coordinating in this. I call it the National Cyber Security Center. All knowledge available is used in a continuous process to improve the security of government sites. As a result of massive attacks, a site becomes saturated and the site is blocked. People can't get through it. De facto, the system will be down. You'll always have those attacks. We have an interest in preventing us from being vulnerable. I can't make a commitment here that it won't happen again. I suspect this will be the case, but the good news is that no data has come into the street and people have not lost all their data. No, the site wasn't available for a while. That is an inconvenience, but of course it is extremely serious what is behind it and that also has the attention of the Minister of J and V. Mr. Chairman. I think I've had all the questions. Or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u99	There is another interruption by Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the attacks. I totally agree with the Secretary of State. For the VVD, the most important thing is that personal data does not come on the streets and so on. The question I really wanted to ask is how it is going in this cooperation. J and V have an important role to play. That's clear. After WannaCry, the previous mass attack, we also discussed this extensively in this house. The question I actually asked was how the Secretary of State, who in a combination are responsible for the Tax Administration and MyGovernment, look back on Monday. Has that already been done, or have they begun to learn lessons from that attack? So I didn't even go as far as the Secretary of State, although I share his joy. My question is whether we are now looking at what can be learned from last Monday's attacks within institutions representing the two Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u101	Thank you. Then the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u102	Yes, of course it does. I can't say anything about it, but it's happening. When it comes to digitalisation, the policy side and the ambition is to take a certain path within the government in relation to certain standards, including in the framework of the Digital Government Act. That's my responsibility. The responsibility for digitisation within the various departments of the profession lies with the person in charge. In the case of the Tax Office, which lies with the State Secretary for Finance. The responsibility for safety really lies with J and V. There is also, of course, close official consultation and we are also informed about this, for example, when these attacks take place. In the end, it is up to J and V to provide advice on security on how these sites can be improved and also to provide an analysis of the attribution, from where those attacks come from. Then we'll be all the way to the AIVD, the NCTV and others. That's not in my wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u103	Thank you. Another final question, Mr. Middendorp, or was it enough? That's the case. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance to answer a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Chamber for the questions. I think that this is a very relevant subject, which is also covered in the coalition agreement. You have the world that goes on. It is becoming more digital and the government must also be involved in this digital world, but at the same time it is rightly pointed out from various sides that we must be careful and take into account that not everyone can go with it at the same pace and not everyone is equally digitally skilled. For those people, too, the government has a role to play, including the major services, such as mine. The IRS has to take that into account. I thought the discussion was very good. Of course, it's always a bit of a balance between moving on to the future and taking everyone with you. I think it is important to make a few observations about where we stand. I shall then turn to a number of questions raised by the Members of Parliament. I don't know if everyone knows that, but by now 99% of all citizens report digitally. Most do so themselves and some do so with help, but 99% of the declarations are digitally made. In companies, this percentage is not so high. We are not there yet, but there too the number of digital contacts is growing and so is not every company, just as not every person, equally digitally skilled. The Tax Administration continues to organise, as the government agreement also states, that there are alternatives for people who are less digitally skilled. For example, the Tax Administration organises all kinds of things for those people to become more digitally skilled. In some cases, there is for people who find that really difficult or who we think is more convenient to help them directly get a possibility through the Tax Phone, through the Tax Office desks and also through a number of civil society organisations. Perhaps, in response to the statement made by the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, who is still getting his blue envelope, I should like to say that it is true that almost all the formal messages that go to citizens and businesses are not only to be found on that Message Box, but are still to be sent by post. I think this has to do with all the problems that have been mentioned in the Chamber, namely that not everyone is always watching their messages or not everyone is aware of what they are supposed to do with them. And, of course, we think it is important that everyone knows that he has to pay his taxes. So: you bet the tax authorities still do this by post! Of course, I do not want to say that it is not nice for anyone who doesn't want to do it by post anymore that there is the possibility to do as much digitally as possible with the Tax Administration and also to be able to find documents on the website of the Tax Administration when you are making a declaration. I'll come back to that in a minute. The most important thing is that it is always possible to keep things on paper when it comes to your taxes. But anyone who wants to can do it digitally. This is also in line with the coalition agreement, which states that those who cannot communicate electronically must continue to do so by post. Actually, the Tax Administration is already on this line. Well, then maybe I should say something about the help with the report. Whether it happens digitally or not, making a declaration can sometimes be quite complicated. And especially for those who find this complicated and then are pushed into a digital world that they find exciting, such a declaration can easily cause problems. The IRS has an absolute eye for that. As I said, we have set up on the website, at the Tax Phone and also around webcare all kinds of measures to ask citizens not only digitally, but also simply through someone. A lot of citizens still like having that opportunity. Less use is made of it, but the fact that it is still possible to call is greatly appreciated. Furthermore, in several places in the Netherlands there are now 30 of them also offered physical assistance in making a declaration. Citizens are initially asked whether they want to be accompanied. Or maybe they'd like to learn? If they want to learn for themselves, we try to make these people, say, capable of the future. But if that is a bridge too far, then the citizen's declaration, together with that citizen, will be checked and completed. Not only does the Tax Administration do that itself, but the Tax Administration also helps helping parties. That's really important to realize. There is the example of older people's associations that have done so in the past. But this is much wider than that. A whole list of civil society organisations can be found on the Belastindienst/Knowledge Network site. This list includes trade unions, but also all kinds of other bodies that can help. These bodies know the specific group or background of the people well. They can help these people with the problems that can arise. The Tax Administration is therefore helping parties in the support they provide. Those supporting parties are very pleased with this, but the Tax Administration is also very pleased that not only the service itself, but also these social parties help to do so. We support those helping parties with information meetings, newsletters and a whole list of measures that we actually have ready for those organisations that want to help. In addition, for example, a covenant has been agreed with the national libraries. That's what I think is important to report. All almost 800 libraries in the Netherlands now have opportunities for anyone who is unable to open a digital line at home or make a print. There is a special network of computers in the libraries that have the lines for the declarations. These people can use it and print it on paper. For almost all of these 800 libraries it is therefore possible to obtain free access to a digital means of providing assistance. In 80 libraries there is also physical support if requested. So this is not just about offering a computer with an internet connection, but also about physical support if there are questions. Gouda's example has often been added to this. The Gouda Library is indeed one of those examples where there is also physical assistance for declaration, in collaboration with the social service providers. Also during the upcoming campaign there will be this again in Gouda. This is what I wanted to say in general about the help with the declaration and what we can do in addition to the digital help. Perhaps I should now turn specifically to the supplementary question on the elderly's associations. We asked for a financial contribution from that. It has now been abolished. Mr Omtzig asked me to do everything I could to ensure that these organisations are supported as much as possible. Well, I would really like to say that today it is not just these specific old-age associations, but actually all the old-age associations that can count on our support. So where we used to have a very specific number of civil society organisations that we helped financially, a broad intermediary policy has now been developed, in which a very broad network of social service providers who want to help citizens in doing business with the Tax Administration get the support of the Tax Administration they deserve. Examples of this, again: they give access to the Customer's Tax Office portals, the simple use of authentication tools, authorisation facilities, training materials, coordination consultation, service support in the form of e.g. the newsletters I mentioned, online knowledge work, which I just referred to, but also just being and having a personal contact with the Tax Office for these civil society organisations. Again, historically there was financial support with a specific group of people. That's been adjusted. My predecessor also explained in the Chamber at the end of 2015 that we want to offer not only a specific group but a very broad group of uniform offers. In recent years, however, the number of older people's associations and senior associations wishing to assist in this process has also increased considerably. The Tax Administration, I would like to say from this place, is very content with the social involvement of these institutions and the fact that they want to help the Tax Administration. Mr. Chairman. Then there's another question. If we look a little more specific, then the Tax Administration has rolled out its policy for this, he sees that the digital world continues but also that help remains for people who do not. Then the question is: okay, so there's a portal and there's all kinds of information on it. But Mr Omtzigt asked: that is quite exciting and a previous speaker has also said that those documents would be visible for up to five years, but imagine that you will get a follow-up after 11 years. The maximum period is indeed 12 years, so the example could just be. The citizen gets that and thinks, "Hey, I don't have those papers anymore." What's that? The logical offer from the Tax Administration is always: when there is a question about such an attack by a citizen, he can just call the Tax Phone and get that information. Well, will Mr Omtzigt say, that's fine and we already knew that, but why can't all of that just be loaded into the portal that's digitally available for that? That's a bit of a trade-off. This is technically possible in itself, but it is not simple. Because if we want to serve all documents available live from the site for everyone who has a potential recovery, that means not only a hugely expensive operation but also a huge storage capacity to get it directly, while it may well be that people want it specifically in the end only in very few cases. There's already a possibility for those people to specifically request it if they need it. So it's not like something isn't available. I have said before that I will investigate whether it is possible to do something with that. I would like to say once again what the points of interest here are. So that's the ease of use: isn't it going to be too much what we're putting down? It is also about the performance of the systems. If we put all the documents on the same portal, which is quite a big story, will the portal not become too slow for the other users? Can we handle that? What about the privacy regulations and the statutory retention periods? 'Cause that's what we're dealing with. Of course, there is also, in the end, the consideration of how much money it costs to build such a thing. As promised, I shall come back to this in the next six months' report which I am going to send to the Chamber, because that is simply a trade-off that I want to make in total and then tell the Chamber what finally came out of it. That's it with regard to the payment periods. Very briefly, on Mr Middendorp's questions. Apart from the ambitions clearly indicated by the Secretary of State BZK: of course we also have digital ambition. At the same time, we still have to shape the exact ambition. I believe that a fine note will be sent to the Chamber, and I wholeheartedly endorse that. Mr Middendorp also had questions about the ddos attack. Here too, it is wise for me to join the words of the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations as much as possible, because it is also not wise to tell a great deal about them. I think our National Cyber Security Center has sent out clear messages. It wasn't just anything. It was advanced. Several currents they tried to attack. As much as we are trying to learn from what is happening, of course the people who attack us are also trying to learn from the way we react. That is why it is not wise to say a great deal about this, except that it is important, I think, at the moment the situation is under control. That's actually the most important thing. Those responsible have, of course, been informed. Not only with the systems of MyGovernment, but there is also good and consistent consultation with the people of the Tax Administration on what they experience on the site. Ultimately, this coordination is also important, because it could well be that an attack is aimed at the weakest link. So there's consultation, there's good consultation and there's vigilance. It wasn't nothing, it went well and the situation is under control right now. I hope I have answered the questions which the Chamber had addressed to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u105	Thank you. I see that there is still a need for an interruption at the end. I was kind of expecting it, too. You have the floor, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u106	I have also saved some questions for the second term, but for now I had actually asked for a commitment to get a report on how many people are not looking at their posts in time and what methods are being used to ensure that those people read their messages in good time. This is particularly important for the Tax Administration, because if we add important messages that you have to object to in time to the electronic Message Box and people who do not read, it will have quite profound legal consequences. So can we get an overview of this, for example in the six-month report or once a year, because it does not have to be done every time? Then we can see if we can move on, or make a pass on the spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u107	I get that question, because there's the logic of "if few people use it, how do you know it's going well?" To be honest, I assumed that the response given by the Secretary of State for the Interior was sufficient. The 17% I mentioned mainly concerns the site MijnGovernment.nl. So that's not the site we're responsible for as tax authorities. We, of course, are users of that site as a tax authority, but the use of it and the way the temptation takes place there, is ultimately one of the wallet of the Secretary of State next to me; the Secretary of State of Temptation!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u108	Thank you. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u109	I will come back to this in a second term, but this is a matter of both My Government and My Tax Office. The pieces are being prepared in my tax office. We have had very long debates about why we maintained that blue envelope: because we want to be absolutely sure that people read those messages. So I'm not interested in the site of MyGovernment, because it is indeed from the State Secretary of BZK, but the website of the Tax Administration. Can we get an update on this in a six-month report or annual report, not only about how many people have an account, because we do hear that, but how many people will read that message in time, or within three weeks, or six weeks, but at least within the objection period?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u110	I think it's important that we understand how communication is received on the other hand, whether you do that communication digitally or on paper. So I have no problem saying that we can give insight into that, even when it comes to my site. It's important, as I just said, that it's not the case that people don't get something by post from the IRS. The communication of "you will have to pay taxes later, know that we are going to talk about this" is still delivered by post. I may have raised it before in a debate in the Chamber, but that is ultimately the most important safety guard. You want to make sure people actually saw that message.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u111	Mr. Ommzigt, you've had your two interruptions. You can also ask your questions in the second term, or do you not need them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u112	Oh, sure you do!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u113	Then can you ask your question later? It's your turn to be the first. You've already had a number of questions, so let's just agree. Everyone has two interruptions. You can proceed immediately, because you have the floor for your second term. Mr. Ommzigt, you have the floor. I notice I forgot to turn on your microphone. I did that on purpose!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u114	I know. I also liked that you referred to February 14th: Ash Wednesday, a bit melancholy. Or did you mean something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u115	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u116	A saint removed from the canon of the Catholic Church. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. I look forward to the steps being taken in terms of the activation process and the authorisation function. We'll be informed about that before the summer. I would add: please put that letter together, because that authorisation function at the Tax Administration is blocking us from continuing with digitisation. As long as it is not settled, we will not continue to do so, we have said. I'm curious to see what can be done with DigiD abroad. Thank you for coming back to that later. I'll wait for the ten or twelve years. I think we can just leave the pieces online, but if we can't, I'd love to hear it. I still have a question that has not been answered clearly: are the people who accidentally registered and did not leave an e-mail address now registered? Do they get a letter so they can still give the address? A second question in this context, a recommendation from the Ombudsman: can these people go back to paper if they want to? There was no clear answer to that. That is a bit of the essence of what the Ombudsman proposed. I do want to have a clear answer to it, because if a citizen can choose, he must also be able to choose when it went wrong, to paraphrase D66 only once. Since the third interruption couldn't be done, I'm gonna file a motion anyway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is of the utmost importance that taxpayers take note of the important reports of the Tax Administration;]] [[noting that the Tax Administration has no knowledge of the taxable persons who may or may not have opened messages from the Message Box;]] [[Calls on the Government to monitor which taxable persons have not opened messages from the Message Box within three weeks so that taxpayers can be reminded of their important message;]] [[calls on the Government to report at least annually on how many messages have been opened by users in good time and what measures have been taken to ensure that people read their messages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-515]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u117	A small comment to the Secretary of State for, in this case, Finance. I see someone leaning back quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u118	Through the chairman, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u119	At the moment it is not the most important messages that go here, but sometimes it is. For example, information on the continuation of the surcharges is currently only made electronically. It is precisely on this basis that we can see, if it is read correctly, whether it is possible to make other messages with greater legal effects also electronically, such as reports about making a declaration or having made a timely declaration. After all, this has much greater legal consequences. That's why I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u120	Thank you. You got your extra minute this way. Mrs. Leijten has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u121	I know that Mr Omtzigt really loves monitoring, annual reports, half-yearly reports; they have to be on time. If we ask the Secretary of State to send everyone a reminder after three weeks if a message is still unopened, I assume that goes by post. How else does it come to be? You can also report how many times a year everyone has been in the system, but you could also say: if after three weeks it turns out that these messages have not been read, someone will be asked by post if he wants to be in them and then he can also indicate on MyGovernment.nl whether he still wants digital mail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u122	Thank you. What do you think of Mrs. Leijten's idea, Mr. Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u123	I can imagine that for most people a reminder e-mail will already be extremely adequate. We're talking about the IRS right now. I don't want to send mail to everyone. If there is an address available, I would do it by email, or by app, or whatever. That is why the motion is a little more detailed. Eventually, that means you're actually approaching people by post if you can't find them. That's one of the options, but please don't do it in all cases. Wherever it doesn't have to, there's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u124	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u125	I want to look at any solution that can help those 2 million people who read their messages sporadicly or at all and get into trouble. You are now automatically in MijnGovernment.nl and you cannot turn off the digital mail, for example, at the Tax Office. I think it's more convenient to turn that around. Now I was dismissed by the Secretary of State as someone from the Stone Age who was also very pessimistic. It would all be all the way back to the old days.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u126	And your question to Mr Omtzigt is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u127	If you're gonna make this up so that after three weeks you get a reminder and there's a report every year about how many times you've opened your messages, why wouldn't you do anything in that "you can turn it off" style or "you don't have to join"? That could save us a lot of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u128	Thank you. Mr. Overzigt, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u129	I'm gonna give you a very precise answer. When it was automatically turned on for everyone at the Tax Office, we made sure that people could also get an envelope when they called the Tax Phone. So it's so arranged at the IRS that you can go back to the blue envelope when you call. The question now before the Secretary of State for BZK is: is it the same with the rest? Can this be done, for example, with the RDW via MyGovernment? But that's what that piece is for. You make something very big of a report, but if you have a very large website from which you send 60 million messages every year, you should be able to see how many of those messages were read by the end of the year. If you put that on one A4 once a year, that will be very useful information. That's not a big report. By the way, I don't think anyone here is from the Stone Age.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u131	One last point. If you are obliged to do everything on paper, then the VAT return must also be changed. It's now completely electronic. You can't make a VAT return on paper. I wouldn't want that to be possible again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u132	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Leijten for her second term. Or doesn't she use it? No, I see she's willing to take advantage of that. I call Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u133	Outside the microphone, the chairman said surprise me once. Maybe I'm gonna do that now. Maybe there's someone who recognizes the following text. "Governmental communication that is still taking place physically must also be able to digitally in the future: safe, fast, cheap. The electronic service via MijnGovernment.nl is improved. The service will be more service-oriented. There's gonna be an authorization function. MijnGovernment.nl is enabled to send push messages to proactively warn. People who cannot communicate electronically must be able to do so in a different way. Therefore, there remains a choice to communicate with the government by post." What a wise text! And how far away is that from the letter we received and the questions I asked. It's very simple: I think you should have the opportunity to say yes to digital mail instead of being automatically sucked into it. I have therefore tabled the following motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more than 2 million people do not read or hardly read their digital government post;]] [[noting that it is now only possible to receive the tax authority's post on paper if this is discussed with the Tax Administration;]] [[asks the government to send digital government post via MijnGovernment.nl only if people have made an active choice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-516]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u134	This is not going back to the fax or the stone age, but it is the reversal through which people say "yes, I want" instead of "oh wait, I'm in something and I want out."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u135	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Then I give the floor... Mr Middendorp wants to make another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u136	The question that arises is whether the motion you have just made applies to future cases or to more cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u137	I could really imagine that this applies to anyone who uses MyGovernment.nl. If you like to use it a lot, you can say "yes, I want" once, and then everything stays the way it was. If you hardly use it, you haven't reported it and I could imagine that after a year or six months, for example, the automatic digital mail will expire and will be replaced by regular mail. I think you'll reach the people who don't get in or barely get in. On all those ideas of memories, apps and so on, I am not opposed at all. I'm more concerned with the following. That's who I am, isn't it? We were talking about whether you should take yourself as a measure. I did go to MyGovernment.nl myself. Over the years I have seen how incredibly handy it is, but I was surprised when I suddenly found the OZB-attack in that box and not on my mat anymore. Then again I'm such an incredibly digital type that I print that attack because I want something in a folder. I wouldn't turn the mail back on, but I thought it was kind of weird that it turned out that way. I can therefore very well imagine that we say that anyone who comes forward now will get that question anyway. Someone who comes in gets that question. If you've said "yes, I want" once, it's automatically digital. Someone who hasn't said that after six months falls out again. I think you could do something like that. I'm also gonna leave it to the Secretary of State to think about it a little bit. But then there are no more 2 million people in it who do not or hardly use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u138	Thank you. You have received a detailed answer, but still need a final word, Mr. Middendorp?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u139	Yes. That sounds a lot like what we discussed several times about finches. I assume that we, both optimists, assume that if we give that opportunity, there will be a very good system, so that people will choose to go digital. I assume that's what you're assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u140	Oh, yeah. Your comparison with internet banking, in which you also said that you wanted everything on paper first, I recognized tremendously. In the beginning, you're afraid to do that. You wonder if it all works and if you have any certainty. I think there are people who don't want to. For those, there has to be room. Also, there are people who can't or can't understand it. Those we can help and seduce. I was just reading the text from the coalition agreement, a SP who reads a piece of the coalition agreement at almost half past nine on Thursday evening! Oh, and that's what I think it should be. As a government, you can only successfully digitize it if you do it this way. You shouldn't say: this is the way; anyone who doesn't want that road, pick it out in the woods.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u141	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Den Boer for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u142	Mr. Chairman. Various colleagues here in the Chamber have put the emphasis on the human dimension, the human dimension of the digital communication between government and citizen. I think it is very good that both State Secretarys show that they absolutely do not want the digital divide between government and citizens to widen. I also welcome the fact that they are both putting that in the perspective of a learning government. That's the first thing. I am very pleased with the undertaking given by Secretary of State Knops that he intends to explore the right to make mistakes; that he is prepared to discuss this with his French colleague and perhaps not to resist any temptations to bring that principle to the Netherlands. I am also very pleased that the Secretary of State has promised to inform us of this in a letter before the summer recess of 2018. Then there's the question of the e-mail address. The Secretary of State says that he will do everything in his power to ensure that people who have activated their account without e-mail will do so, for example with the use of a digital assistant. But these people need to be reached outside of MyGovernment.nl. I would therefore be very interested to hear the Secretary of State's views on whether he is going to launch another campaign or whether there are letters or something like that. People who log in for the first time now get the question: whether or not to leave an e-mail address. As far as we're concerned, there's got to be a warning about the consequences if you don't. Is the Secretary of State gonna do this? In order to encourage him, I would like to table a motion; not an e-motion, but an exciting motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas 7 million people have already activated their account on MyGovernment.nl and receive most of the government's mail digitally;]] [[Considering that the Ombudsman in his report "Why MyGovernment?" has concluded that 20% of people for more than a year do not visit MyGovernment.nl and can have far-reaching consequences;]] [[whereas the Ombudsman concluded that 17% of the activated accounts are not linked to an e-mail address and these people do not receive notifications when they receive a new message from the government;]] [[calls on the government to seek workable solutions to ensure that people who have already activated their account and have not left an email address do so;]] [[also invites the government to better inform people when activating their MyGovernment account about the consequences of activating without e-mail address, and to inform the Chamber about the execution of this motion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Boer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-517]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. The use perspective must really be put at the centre, that is what my group is in favour of. We really want to focus on further development. I have a motion to encourage you to focus on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a large group of people have difficulty dealing with the Message Box on MyGovernment.nl;]] [[Whereas the Government is planning to improve the Message Box;]] [[calls on the government to involve users as experience experts in improving the Message Box and to involve people with less digital skills, such as low-literate people, migrant backgrounds and older people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-518]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. I'm very pleased that you can activate DigiD at embassies. That's good news. The VVD supports the CDA colleague on this point. More importantly, I note that both Secretary of State indicated that after Monday they had a full focus on how these attacks were made and what the lessons were learned. Of course, I also fully understand the convenience of these areas, so I very much appreciate the commitment that they are going to do so. Then, Madam President, the app. It seemed like a great opportunity to build something even better for tablets and smartphones than we now have as a website. My observation is that we've been talking about a website all night, but the rest of the world is already doing everything on the phone. I hope that all the things that we still wanted to develop will come back to the app. Between the lines, I hear it's well on schedule, 2Q this year. The e-mail addresses are actually presented in two directions tonight. The first is: everyone has an e-mail address so you can contact them. The other is actually: check in advance whether or not you want digital or paper. Both brought forward the VVD tonight. I still don't quite understand why you have to leave an email address on any new website when you sign in, even if it's just to activate your password and why you can't do that with the government. Anyway... The most important thing, I think, is that after tonight we choose one of the two directions of solution. Actually, I'm gonna close with that. No, one more point. But we'll do that next time, because I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u145	It's a bit of a sad end, but there's still plenty of debates coming up. Let me look at both directors: do they need some more time? Five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u146	Secretary of State Knops is already here and I think the other Secretary of State is also on his way. A number of questions and four motions have been tabled. Since we have had an extensive exchange of views, I would like to ask you to make it a little short in the answer. I call the Secretary of State for the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State for Finance will provide the first motion with an opinion and I will make the other motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 516 by Mrs Leijten, in which she asks the government to send the digital government post only digitally if people themselves have made an active choice. I made it very clear in the first period that the principle is 'digital unless'. That's different than laying it open. That means that I must discourage this motion. In the Den Boer motion in part No. 517 The government is asked to seek workable solutions to ensure that people who have already activated their account and have not left an e-mail address do so and better inform people. I think I've made a commitment from the front to the back. That's why I can take over the motion; we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u148	Is there any objection to taking over the motion in part No. 517? Mrs Leijten, do you object? I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u149	What happens if people do check in, but don't leave an e-mail address? Are they obliged to leave an e-mail address? If they can't get a notification via the mail and can't know it, will they get those messages in another way? I'm a little curious about that. I'm fine with taking over the motion, but this doesn't mean you're obliged to leave your e-mail address? If so, what do we do with the people who don't? Do they fall out of the system of My Government?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u150	I give the floor to the Secretary of State to answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u151	I have made it very clear in the first term that I am against an obligation. I'm from seducing. I do not see the word "obligatory" in the motion at all, so that is why I can take her over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u152	I look at Mrs Leijten and see that she thinks the question is sufficiently answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u153	The Den Boer motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u154	The Özütok motion in part No. 518 is about the user perspective. You have heard me say that I am very excited to put that at the heart of the matter. That's what should happen to everything. You specifically ask the government to involve users as experience experts in the improvement of the Message Box I would like to broaden it to the digital government, whether it is about the websites, the apps or whatever, and specifically involving people who are less digitally skilled, such as low-literate people, people with a migrant background and older people. I would not like to specify the latter. I would like to make that a representative target group. You mention specific groups, but I can also mention visually limited groups and add a number of other important target groups. If I may see the motion in this way, as an inclusive motion towards the target group, a representative category participating in a user platform, then I can leave the motion to the judgement of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u155	Do you share the interpretation of the motion given by the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u156	Yeah, I'll take it from here. Yes, it's meant to be wider.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u157	It's supposed to be wider. Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u158	Then the verdict on the motion will be left to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u159	Mrs Den Boer has asked me to run campaigns. Yes, I'm going to run campaigns, but I'm not going to run a real campaign on this subject because I think it should be a continuous process, like I said. This means that there must be a permanent process both from the BZK and from the implementation organisations to inform, enthuse and inform people about the benefits of this. Can I then, Mr President, once again advertise the fact that it is also good to see how other countries do this and learn from it? I'm gonna do that, and I'm gonna invite the Chamber to do that too, because that's a really nice way to take that step. Why is it not a problem in other countries, why can everyone do it? Not because digitisation is the issue, but because it has found good solutions to the problems we also have. I'll stick with that. If we succeed in adopting these solutions, we can really increase the number of people who are not using these digital flows right now. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u160	Thank you. That would provoke an interruption from Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u161	So people can or can't go back to paper. What exactly do you do with those 17% of people who haven't provided an e-mail address or who never actually log in? Are they being signed up now? Do they get extra e-mails? How is it ensured that this group, which then gets into trouble with all kinds of notices and warrants, will be reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u162	That is exactly what I explained in detail in the first period. All means are allowed to do so. Letters, I call it campaigns, but they're information sessions. At the time when people do get in touch with the government, they are reminded, in order to increase that percentage. Then it is said: remember, you have to leave your e-mail address. I say make no, seduce yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u163	Thank you. We're getting a repeat. So I would very much like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance to give an appreciation of the last motion. I see Mr Omtzigt standing by the interrupting microphone. We can't convince each other. I think it's really a repeat of moves. Or you have to promise me it's not a repeat?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u164	I get that when people get in touch with the government, you do say that. But it may be true that these people do not come into contact with the government. And that's where the problem lies: how do we make sure that this group really disappears? So that is the group that did accidentally register, but did not make any use of it at all. Yeah, everything's legal. But does everything that's allowed happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u165	Thank you. Apparently, there's a concern. Finally, I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u166	I understand Mr Omtzigt's point. "Everything is permitted," you can explain that differently. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I don't know exactly what the most effective tool is right now, but if sending a letter with an explanation you might also see on a website, but who apparently don't see these people is the way to move them anyway to give up that email address, that's part of it. Very emphatically!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u167	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance. There is one more motion on which we would very much like to hear his appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's not just a motion. As is often the case with a good motion, you have to read those four, five times to fully understand what it means. This motion is more specific on the Message Box, and not on the digital part that I am responsible for with the Tax Administration. I'm just trying to explain the motion. The key question is: can we not monitor which taxpayers will or will not open the messages? The Message Box already contains a checkbox that allows the user to specify: if I have not opened my pieces, can I receive a repeat message from you? So that's the user's choice. So you can do that in the Message Box, but you can't do that on the Tax Office website. In the case of the Tax Administration, this point may also be a little less relevant. Again, the real security guard's in it for us to do it by post at the IRS. If someone had already taken it off by post, they would logically not also go to the digital platform to supplement things, because they have ticked it. So I think it is less relevant at that point. 99% of the declarations are already done digitally. It is therefore not the case that there is a huge gap where we have to take additional action. I think this is what's behind the motion. If you're communicating with the civilian, it's important that you know if he got anything. Then let's take a moment in the middle to see if he's opened it, if he's read it and if he's understood it. Anyway, that's gonna be a very complicated discussion. In short, I have had a few moments in determining my appreciation. At first I thought, "Don't recommend it, 'cause there's no need, 'cause we're already doing some of it. People can already tick it. At the same time, that's lame, because I get the idea behind it. We could wait until we get a little more technical ingenuity. Not all things that people click on sites are recorded with meters. Technically, you still have things to remodel. This also applies: it is complicated to determine whether it is worth what you do with it. We communicate with the citizen on a digital platform and give him, for example, the opportunity to check things out. If I may read the motion in such a way that it is mainly an encouragement for us to keep track of whether there is progress in it and to report on it aggregatedly, I think that is a good idea and I shall leave the motion to the House's judgement. I hope this helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u169	Mr Omtzigt nods, so he agrees with your interpretation. This brings us to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the directors for their contributions. I also thank the MPs and the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-11.u170	We are going to vote on the motions next Tuesday.
