ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport to the First Chamber. It is for the Minister and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport the first appearance here in the Upper House. I wish you a great deal of wisdom in that. I would remind the Chamber that the handling of the Law 32398, the Forensic Care Act, was suspended on 1 April 2014 at the request of the then Secretary of State for Security and Justice. The continuation of the treatment is today and tomorrow jointly with the treatment of the legislative proposals 32399, the Law mandatory mental health care, and 31996, the Law care and coercion psychogeriatric and mentally handicapped clients.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, I too welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State, who are here for the first time, to this house. Minister Dekker has been here before. Mr. Chairman. The combination of laws we are discussing today has a rather special and, above all, a very long run. For example, the debate on the Wet forensic care in this house was previously suspended because of many questions, gaps and complexities. This law is now dealt with jointly with the Health and Force Act and the Law mandatory ggz. Following many new questions from this house and an expert meeting, the Minister delivered a letter on the last day before the recess, in which he once again announced repair legislation, after the necessary repairs had already been made. Normally, the PVV Group says: well, you'll come back when you're done. But this legislation is just too important and too sensitive. For if this legislation, and above all the Forensic Care Act, were to make one person disappear into the longstay, rather than be sent to society, that would be a profit for us, although both the TBS system and the Forensic Care Act could be affected. I'll get back to you on that. There will be a lot of AMvBs for the execution. The PVV is not happy about this either. Mr. Chairman. Then first the law mandatory ggz and the law care and coercion. The cabinet aims to get the patient in the right place. We agree, unless the patient is a criminal. Then the right place as far as we're concerned is prison. The PVV Group, in particular by the Law on care and coercion, does not have its concerns or compulsion on the spot because of a lack of good care. How does the Minister prevent human care from being obstructed where there are substantial cuts, particularly in the care of the elderly? The previous cabinet has made considerable cuts in care for the elderly. Numerous former MPs of the PvdA are also surprisingly in jobs in the care sector. Mr. Chairman. Many people in the world who were enthusiastic about this legislative process at the start of the legislative process have dropped out, often in firm terms. Can the Minister respond to that? How does the Minister get the parties to implement this new legislation, provided that the law is actually implemented? How does he guarantee the feasibility that we in this house need to test, especially as parties in the field, from OM to care parties, see the complexity of the regulation as a major obstacle? Those who have to perform say: how? Mr. Chairman. The application of the rules is often even more important than the rules themselves. In the case of Bart van U., the murderer of Mrs Borst, it seems that if the legislation had been correctly applied, this terrible incident would not have occurred. Then we can adopt new laws here, but what if they are not properly applied? How is the Minister going to control that if that didn't work out in the past? The DA has already asked for more time and money for the new IT, and the combination IT and government is not the most happy combination. If the government already got the IT running, the introduction took much longer and cost much more. How does the Minister see that? Is there room for that? Speaking of money, the question is also whether the finances are leading indicators. If insufficient capacity is purchased, who is responsible for it? Is that gonna be the mayor through the Wmo? Is there going to be pressure on lower indications because it's cheaper? Can the Minister explain that again? Can he continue to guarantee the quality regardless of the finances or perhaps to guarantee it? A few years ago, the Task Force on Treatment Duration TBs issued a report. There was a search for ways to shorten the treatment time, because it had to be cheaper. Tbs clinics now get fines if the treatment takes too long, but our primary care, even in this house, should be mainly prevention of relapse? How do we make our society safer? And aren't the costs of all those recidivists and of trial and tracking them much higher than those of long-term treatment? Thus, longer confinement seems not only the most secure way, but also the most cost-effective. We also see progress in the legislative proposals. Mandatory care and coercion must be an ultimatum remedium. We very much welcome the assurance of the role of the family and the environment of those involved. The safety of society is also gaining more weight within the mandatory ggz Act. However, legislation is not always as clear and clear about the target groups, especially in the case of people with multi-problems. People are easily called confused. Where's the distinction? Anti-Semitic terrorists are already referred to as confused persons by the police and prosecutors, because that is a bit more convenient politically. So if there is not even the will of the prosecution to understand what is going on in society, terrorists are not seen as terrorists, how can this legislation, and whatever legislation, provide more security? What if the government is the weakest link? Mr. Chairman. I have some more specific questions... I left my phone on, I notice. The debate may not be so good for asking very specialised questions, but for those who are completely insanityable, Article 37 disappears the authorisation allowing the public prosecutor to judge independently, even without the cooperation of the defendant. There is a gap, because mandatory ggz is tested in a different way within the Act. Now it's unclear if this suspect gets a care authorization. Is it not wise, I would ask the Minister, to give the criminal justice officer the opportunity to grant this care authorisation on his own? During the expert meeting, Mr Ruys of the Justice Council discussed the transition from the criminal circuit to the civilian section. In principle, the situation may arise that the judicial chain terminates the TBs and that a person in cassation goes against the authorisation under the Law on compulsory mental health care. Then someone is out of the tbs, but not in the law mandatory ggz. That's not supposed to happen, is it? I would like to hear in a response whether and how the Minister is going to fill this gap. Where laws overlap, and they do so quite explicitly, then the strictest regime applies. These are a number of implementation problems. I think that colleagues will have many more problems. The crisis measure that replaces the detention is one of those. We get the feeling that we also had the Law DBA for regulating thezzp market. Eventually, a majority in this house chose.... and so do we; I admit that to allow that legislation to pass, because also part of the field that wanted to know where they were going. But it did bring about the chaos we have now. How do we prevent us from getting into the same trap? This legislation is concerned with care, health and safety. Many of the people involved are already arguing for a law on sweeping, a repair law. The Minister also came up with repair legislation; I told you so. Isn't that supposed to be a wipe sign? Mr. Chairman. Then the Forensic Care Act. This is an organizational law which allows the Minister, among other things, to give an appointment to the board of directors of an institution. He may even take over management or appoint a director if circumstances so warrant. But it has to be done. Recently, the minister has intervened at the psychiatric clinic Altrecht Aventurijn in Den Dolder, without this law. There are no more serious cases there for the time being to quote 'give the clinic room for improvement'. That is politically correct talk for: to clean up the gang that is there. I live around there. I can tell you it makes a big impression when the army marches through your neighborhood looking for a missing young woman. The suffering for relatives, family and acquaintances is immensely greater, but also on the environment has such a great impact. The area has been complaining about this clinic for years, but the CDA mayor trivialized the problems. Even when there were indications that the car fires from early 2017 were caused by the residents of Altrecht, it was not allowed to be pointed to Altrecht, because that would only stigmatize. You weren't supposed to. Speaking of the weakest link. Last week, the alderman who messed with the Den Dolder clinic said at Blendle that we shouldn't be so worried about safety because there is also a Remia factory with which what can happen. The safety of our people is in the hands of these people. Mr. Chairman. Following the terrible events there last autumn, meetings were organised in which citizens had to keep their mouths shut. They were allowed to listen to the D.A., the mayor, and to the ladies of Altrecht. There was actually not so much going on, we were told, while in a documentary a few years in case one of the female escorts said that as a woman at night she was afraid to come near the clinic. Our wives and daughters are obviously not so important to the aid workers. They told us at that meeting that drugs, drug use and drug trafficking are under strict control. In all investigations and interviews, however, there was no escape from the conclusion that it was a drug den there. The ladies said urine tests are being taken, so there's actually no way there'd be drugs in the clinic. What are we gonna do with these drivers? There's an open deal at the station. There's an open deal on the property. In children's playgrounds was snorted. Patients who stayed there told me that if you weren't on drugs yet, you had to do your best not to get to the clinic. Everyone in the neighborhood knows that, but the ladies at Altrecht pretend their noses are bleeding. One of them started a relationship with Michael P. Recently they closed the site to avoid as much unwanted traffic as possible on the site. Everyone in our neighborhood knows: there was a deal, for years. Here's what I want to say. We can pass a hundred laws here, but if we put the execution in the hands of those who deny and do not recognize wrongdoing, and the supervision of them fails, then the water is carried to the sea. Escapes from tbs are the order of the day. In 2014, there were 253 attempts. When bowling, on bike rides, when fetching fries: they have left. Tbs have smuggled child pornography into the clinic. A T.B.S. Convicted for trafficking in human beings can only receive an underage girl. Tbs men threaten victims by phone and mail. In particular, there is no communication on these matters. Above all, it must remain under the hat. It's a big gang. How can we guarantee the safety of the environment? That's what it's supposed to be about when we're dealing with looking away mayors and directors and behavioral therapists who lie? How is the Minister going to enforce this new law? Is he going to replace the directors of these dysfunctional clinics immediately? Although this was later included in the bill, much attention was paid to the refusing observers. With this law, medical data can be obtained for the PVV Group in a careful way to avoid as many suspects as possible who refuse to participate in a recording at the Pieter Baan Centre, avoiding tbs. Inevitably, we still come to Michael P's case again. The D.A. demanded a lower sentence on appeal than he received at first instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u4	I hear Mr Dercksen say on behalf of the PVV that it is necessary for suspects to be observed because they should be imposed on tbs. At the same time, the PVV's view has always been that we should abolish tbs, because it is far too expensive. So I don't understand. Why do people suddenly need to get tbs, when the PVV wants to abolish the tbs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u5	Maybe it's a good thing you're listening to my speech. I have here a report from the WODC. Indeed, on the basis of the relapse rates, we do not believe that it is helpful in the most important respects and that it is much better to give people longer prison sentences. In the case of murders and rapes, life imprisonment should be much more frequent. We are not in favour of tbs, certainly not, but with the Forensic Care Act we are making a mini-step, a mini-step, I admit, to give the judge the opportunity to at least ensure that those people disappear longer from society. Inevitably I come back to the case of Michael P. The D.A. demanded a lower sentence on appeal than he received at first instance, because the adage was: in similar cases there is not so much punishment. I don't know who took the trouble to read the verdict, but this unsub had raped two underage girls in a bizarre, sadistic manner. A dream had come true, said the madman, who also committed some violent robberies. What else do you have to do as a suspect to convince the judge of your insanity? This dossier also reads as a plea for minimum penalties. We can pass a hundred laws here, but the Netherlands will not become a millimeter safer as judges if they populate the courts and courts. The President of the Court, who imposed this Michael P. for only 11 years, is now at the top of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Poor Holland! In the report about Altrecht, the Minister indicated that he would like to investigate the possibility of allowing non-defensive suspects to impose TBs after the detention. What's the status of these proposals? Are they additional to the Forensic Care Act we're discussing today and tomorrow? The 2012 WODC report shows the recurrent rates of sex offenders. I'm just looking at the numbers, because they're the most obvious and the most disastrous. The general recidivism is about 70% in the longer term. The serious and very serious recidivism of the past, and that is the case very quickly, is around 60%. And that's when the killer gets caught. That's why you have to do your best in this country. I would remind you that murder investigations have stopped due to capacity problems. How much evidence does there have to be to prove that the system we have now isn't working? The courts and courts also know these figures. Why, apparently, are they not used? Would we allow medicines where the outcome is fatal, and not so much for the patient but for the environment? We would never let them. How long do we let our wives and daughters wander around in the social scientists' lab? We can pass 100 laws here, but if the execution is so miserable and in court it is not the safety of society but the pathetic perpetrator who is at the heart of it, then it will not be safer. Youth TBs. The PI measure is completely failing. Half go wrong after two years and over a slightly longer period that's 80%, if you get caught already. 80% is almost everyone! How is that possible? A youth tbser costs €563 per day, at least in 2012, and it will not have become cheaper. No one knows if this pij-measure works. The row of relapsed youth tbs with very serious violent crimes is a long time. When do we come to the conclusion that it doesn't work? Professor of family law at the University of Tilburg, Mr.Vlaardingerbroek, calls the youth-tbs a black box. I quote: 'We still know too little about what does and does not work'. And that for €563 per day. The WODC writes in 2012: "There is therefore no telling whether the youth-tbs Pij-measure has achieved its goal." Mr. Chairman. Last week, Romy was in the news. The unsub had assaulted a girl before, and the judge had dropped the case. The judge had dismissed the case! What kind of signal is that to that girl, to the victims of the area? No, he had to be treated, and now we're stuck with the chunks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. Judges don't dismiss. The DA's gonna dismiss. The facts must be true if something is said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u7	I got this quote from the paper. De Volkskrant, by the way. That will appeal to you. But the case was dismissed and whether the D.A. does or the judge, how can you dismiss a case because the problem is in the system? How can you dismiss a case against someone who's been assaulted? Will you explain it to me? What if your own daughter is screwed? Will you explain it to me? What is the Minister going to do about these measures, about the fact that they say: go ahead and deal with them? Then your daughter comes home, she's sexually assaulted, and then the conclusion is that the government has said, "Forget it." Mr. Chairman. What also surprised us is that there has been no attention whatsoever to the report by the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and Sexual Violence against Children. Not so long ago, she presented a report on the detection of the recurrent risk in sex offenders. Reduce the risk of recidivism, isn't that what it should be about? It is a report on the investigation of the risk of recidivism and the question whether the treatment imposed on offenders is consistent with that risk of recidivism. It notes that the connection is insufficient. The best available method, the actuarial method, is not used. Once again, the best available method to detect repeated cases of sex offenders is not used. What kind of country is that, Mr. Chairman? Why is the best method not used? "We should not focus," says the national rapporteur, "on the disorder and treat it or think about it and then think that the danger has passed. This has proven to have been an incorrect way of thinking over the last hundred years." Once again: focusing on the disorder and then thinking about treating it, has been a demonstrably incorrect way of thinking for a hundred years. How the hell is that possible? Look at the risk factors and the risk of recurrence. Surely that should be the focus: how do we get society safer? "Risk valuation tools are much better at determining the risk of recidivism," writes the report, "and the suspect doesn't have to cooperate with that at all." Problem solved, the problem of those refusing observandi. Statistical risk analysis. The role of the handler seems to be the untrustworthy link, says this report. "The statistical method works best if you add as little as possible." I do not write that; the national rapporteur writes that. There is no good reason not to use this method, the best working method. Why wasn't it introduced? Again, there is a plethora of scientific research that shows that the predictive value of these statistical instruments is many times greater than that of clinical judgement. We can't afford not to talk about that today, can we? It's about life and death. It's about torn-up families and families and society. The least we can do is discuss this report with each other today, right? Then we can also pass the probation staff and the behavioral experts, because according to this scientific report they do not arrive at the correct assessment of the risk of recidivism. In the light of the figures, that seems to me to be the right conclusion. Then we, the politicians, can decide for ourselves what risk of recidivism we consider to be capable of returning to society. The PVV will opt for a safer society without risk of more victims. I would like a comprehensive response from the Minister. Let me add another example. A twisted mind who has been in contact with justice since his ninth birthday invaded people on the streets, stabbing people in the neck and face. The D.A.'s office isn't gonna file one or two reports, it's gonna be 11. It shows personality disorders, sick disorders, limited mental abilities and so on. But after the perpetrator has been to the Pieter Baan Centre, the court says: it cannot be proven that he suffered from the disorder at the time of the attempted manslaughter. What else do you want? Eleven reports. I am convinced that if we had left the so-called behavioral experts out of this assessment and used this statistical actuarial method, we would have been able to assess the recidivism much more precisely. 'Cause after 11 years minus 30%, so after seven years, this guy's back outside. It's deadly dangerous and completely idiotic. Mr. Chairman. We are not looking at the legislative process from the perspective of the pathetic perpetrator who must be helped at all costs and given opportunities, but from the perspective of society that must be protected from ill spirits. Finally. What are we doing with people who come from outside and who simply enter our country through the open borders of Schengen, because of that manned EU? Last year a completely random woman was stabbed to death in the centre of Utrecht by a Pole. For stabbing this woman, he received a three-year mockery sentence. And then it flows into the expensive, poorly functioning TBs system. "How many of these people from other Schengen countries are there in the Netherlands?', I'd like to ask the Minister. Do we have eyes on that? Can we not declare these people persona non grata after they have served their sentence? And why not? Or can the next of kin, but also the rest of the Netherlands, also pay for this combination of failing systems? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Dercksen. I give the floor to Mr Diederik van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In view of the very complex laws of care that we are discussing today, I would like to bring in some of Plato's wisdom. I'd like to use that to make my speech. I'm quoting Plato. "The point is that a law can never give the best instruction: it does not include exactly what is most desirable and righteous for all together. What are the differences between people and between circumstances? Even you can say that human relations never have peace or duration. Therefore, it is impossible that there is even one field of expertise within which you can create simple rules that go on and on for a given case." So much for Plato in his The State Man. Mandatory fee for senators, I guess. Mr. Chairman. It will not be easy to break down an open door further than by noticing that today we are talking about complex legislative proposals, with at least as complex a history. It is also clear in advance that we are not achieving the ideal healthcare legislation, tailored to every personal care question and clearly for every healthcare provider, today. It remains piecework and the question is now whether the legislative proposals, including all the amendments to them, are still workable for the field. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the health and compulsion bill. There are many people in this Chamber who are involved in any way in the care. One of the biggest challenges is finding sufficient staff. This is a huge task, which will only be greater in the coming years. It's really a problem. Then it is all the more important that the people who work in the care sector can actually get to work with their hands. They should not lose any locks of time with all kinds of administrative acts. This is endorsed by everyone, especially by the rulers. I also refer only to the recent coalition agreement. Now, however, we are discussing a bill that makes an extra contribution to the administrative burden. I shall of course go into more detail on this point, but this observation brings me to the question, partly in the light of the letter sent by the Minister, in which he has already announced amendments to this law, whether it is better not to allow this law to enter into force before the legislative proposal has been adopted with amendments. In fact, the Minister has announced a novelle. First of all, it is a question to the Chamber, but does the Minister not think it is logical that this Chamber should hold the vote until that novelle arrives? I also wonder whether it is not necessary in the meantime for the feasibility of a comprehensive explanation of the legal text, because it is now so fragmented in the history of law, that it harms the feasibility in an unacceptable way. Mr. Chairman. My group's main objection to the Law on care and coercion lies in the point of feasibility. I fear that the step-by-step plan will prove to be involuntary care for care workers. That was a reason for the Lower House Group of the SGP to vote against this bill. It was therefore a surprise that the Minister sent a letter to the First Chamber about this core objection in which he announced that he would increase the feasibility of the roadmap. The Minister will propose that an external consultant should only be consulted if this is necessary for proper care. When exactly that is the case, leave the Minister in the middle. I would like to hear from the Minister in which situations he thinks should be consulted externally. Can he undertake to follow the recommendation of the Centre for Consultation and Expertise (CCE) on this point, so that, in the case of measures that are less immediate, external advice is limited to an annual consultation at group, department or location level? Despite the amendment announced, the SGP fears that the contribution of this proposal to enhancing the practical feasibility of the Roadmap is limited. In practice, there is a need for more substantial changes than just an amendment to seek external advice. Firstly, the Roadmap sometimes also applies to voluntary care. This is the case, for example, when placing a bed fence is needed with a willingly able patient to prevent him from falling out of bed. Even if the representative agrees to this and the client does not oppose it, this is seen as involuntary care. That is strange, I think, because it is not the case in the Law on compulsory mental health care. And if such a willing patient enters the hospital, such a bed fence could also be placed without any problems. I therefore think it is wrong that, after transfer to a care institution, this would be challenged by declaring the decision-making procedure for involuntary care to apply. I therefore ask the Minister whether he would like to use the legislative amendment announced to delete Article 2 (2) of the Health and Force Act. My second proposal for simplification concerns limiting the application of the roadmap to those forms of involuntary care for which no professional directive has yet been developed by the field. An amendment has been tabled in the House of Representatives to regulate this, so that the Roadmap takes the function of a safety net and drastically reduces the administrative burden. This means that it only applies to involuntary care, which has not been the subject of a professional directive. Customisation thus takes precedence over a standard procedure and is connected to the practice of administering medication. After all, the step-by-step plan of the Care and Force Act does not need to be followed if medication is prescribed according to the professional guidelines. Also Article 8:5 of the Compulsory ggz Act provides that mandatory care is to be provided on the basis of directives. I therefore ask the Minister whether he is prepared to include the said amendment in his forthcoming legislative proposal. This would really reduce the administrative burden on healthcare workers. Mr President, the Health and Force Act stipulates that the Health and Force Doctors Act must be a "competent doctor." The Minister announced that he wanted to open the possibility that an EZ psychologist and an orthopedagogic would also play this role. Politically, of course, it is the question of how the Minister estimates the chances of his proposal in the House of Representatives. Because if you do the same thing, during the plenary discussion of the amendment that introduced the Health and Force Doctors Act into the Health and Force Act, the question was explicitly whether this function could also be filled by non-doctors. The Secretary of State required the support of the amendment that behavioral experts could also play this role, but the House of Representatives was not prepared to fulfil this condition. Why does the Minister expect the House of Representatives to be prepared to open the possibility that behavioral experts act as Health and Force Doctors Act? More practically, the following questions. Will each healthcare provider be free to choose to appoint a doctor or an EZ psychologist or an orthopedagogic doctor as the Health and Force Doctor Act? Assuming that involuntary care consists of the administration of certain medications, is an EZ psychologist or orthopedagogic able to assess whether this is necessary? Or is it perhaps necessary to designate two Health and Force Doctors Act, a doctor and a behaviorist? Mr. Chairman. Since the second letter of amendment of the Law mandatory ggz, the Health and Force Act provides that healthcare providers can only designate "a competent doctor" as a caretaker or someone belonging to a category of experts designated by ministerial regulation. Unfortunately, this ministerial arrangement is not yet available, so we do not know which aid workers, besides doctors, want to give the Minister the opportunity to take on this role. In the reply, the Minister in the middle or those who now establish the care plan in the care of the elderly and the disabled, a nursing level 3 and a personal companion level 4, respectively, could continue to do so after the entry into force of the Health and Force Act. Can the Minister now clarify this issue of practical importance? Mr. Chairman. The fourth letter of amendment of the Health and Force Act introduced the client-confidence person (cvp) into the Care and Force Act. During the plenary discussion of the legislative proposal in 2013, it was emphasised that the CVP should be independent of the healthcare provider. The policy vision of the trust work shows that the healthcare office must therefore ensure the availability of trust work at regional level and pass on the costs to healthcare providers. So healthcare providers are responsible for the trust work according to the Law on care and coercion, but cannot exert any influence on it. Nevertheless, they must pay the bill. Why was it chosen to charge these costs, as funding in other sectors is financed independently of healthcare providers? Wouldn't it make more sense to amend Article 57 of the Health and Force Act in such a way that not the healthcare provider is responsible for the availability of trust work, but the Minister? Mr. Chairman. Finally, this law also raises a question about the relationship of the Health and Force Act and the performance of euthanasia in patients who are incompetent. Several examples have been known to be used, just look at the recent evaluation of the euthanasia law, in which people with dementia were given sedating medication in the coffee prior to the lethal injection or, as was also mentioned, in the apple sauce to prevent them from resisting that lethal injection. Sometimes they were also held for this purpose by intima. My question to the Minister is whether he can confirm that such coercive care, regardless of how you feel about euthanasia, is in any case contrary to the Law of care and coercion and is therefore not acceptable. Mr. Chairman. The Law mandatory ggz. As we can see from our written input, we support the aims of that law, but we also have the necessary concerns about its implementation here. Unlike current legislation, compulsory care is also possible outside the care institution under conditions. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he sees this concretely. In addition, care workers have expressed concerns about their own safety. What solutions does the Secretary of State have for this? The SGP considers it important to co-assess the mandatory ggz Act in the light of the Van U. case and the advice of the Hoekstra Committee. As a result, there has been a lot of debate about the observation measure which has since been withdrawn by the House of Representatives. In the report, I asked whether there are still sufficient instruments. The Secretary of State stated that a crisis measure should only be used in the event of imminent serious harm, but that it is sometimes not known what the severity of the disadvantage is and how acute the situation is. Does this mean that there is now in fact not enough instruments to be able to intervene effectively if there is insufficient threat of immediate serious harm? And how can the gap that has been struck by the deletion of the observation measure be filled so that unsafe situations for society are avoided? Mr. Chairman. On the issue of the crisis measure, I would like to have a more detailed explanation of the role of the mayor. According to the law, the mayor must have given the person concerned an opportunity to make his or her story before taking a crisis measure. Is the mayor obliged to do this himself, or is he allowed to mandate someone for that? Can the Secretary of State explain what considerations the mayor is expected to make before he imposes a crisis measure? The mandatory ggz Act does not provide a legal basis on which information can be shared with the police. Now I read that consultation at the Security House can contribute to the provision of information to the police. Can the Secretary of State indicate exactly what information can be shared here, without violating professional secrecy? Can he also indicate whether the police will be given sufficient information to adequately assess security risks? Mr. Chairman. The Forensic Care Act. This bill has already been discussed in great detail in the first period. The main objectives of this proposal are also supported by the SGP: the right patient in the right place, the creation of sufficient forensic care capacity, quality care focused on the safety of society and a good connection between forensic and curative care. By providing good care as part of the punishment, repetition of criminal offences should be reduced. When a person commits a criminal offence, a clear and severe punishment is appropriate. The purpose of such a punishment is to do justice to the law that has been violated, to satisfy what has been done wrong. But it is also important that society is protected from the behaviour of the person concerned. Besides, it's important that an unsub works on his or her behavior. After all, anyone who punishes hard and does not do everything at the same time to make a person understand that his behaviour cannot be tolerated has achieved only a part. The terrible events surrounding the murder of Anne Faber have made it clear once again that there must not only be a good system, but that practice must also be aimed at protecting society. Certainly, there should not be incidents leading policy, but there should be a system in which everything is done to allow people who need forced treatment to receive them. However, the horrible examples that are coming along show that there is still a lot to be done. The SGP has the impression that judges hardly dare to impose TBs independently if the person concerned refuses to cooperate in a psychiatric investigation. How is it that alarm bells don't ring much faster if someone doesn't cooperate in research? Are there enough possibilities to move suspects to cooperate in research? Shouldn't it be possible to enforce that? If someone refuses to cooperate in the investigation at the Pieter Baan Centre, does this bill not constitute any obstacle to ensuring that they can be observed properly and long enough? The bill forensic care provides the necessary handles. It is time for this proposal to have the force of law. The great importance of continuity of care when the criminal law period is over is beyond question. It is important that there is the best possible coordination, both prior to and after the TBs. A manifesto of TBs lawyers discusses, among other things, how to tackle the high turnover in the workforce. That too is essential. In such a sector, where there are many difficult cases, complex problems and the risk of life-threatening criminal offences, it is important that there is a great deal of knowledge and understanding of the different types of behaviour. Experience is very necessary for this. Does the Minister have the impression that the sector is taking sufficient measures to prevent a major spill-over? And does he perhaps see opportunities for further clarification from the Empire as well? Thank you and I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. Today we are faced with a joint treatment of as many as three legislative proposals, the Law on compulsory mental health care, the Law on care and compulsion and the Law on forensic care, with the starting point of harmonizing the legal status of persons who have to undergo forced care. 50PLUS wholeheartedly supports the cultural change to avoid as much coercion as possible and to apply it only as an ultimatum remedium. But cultural change in mental health care must also come from within. Legislation only provides support. Finding a balance between the importance of the patient or client and the importance of society is and will remain difficult, but in all cases it is necessary to strive for customisation and the starting point "no, unless" should be central to the legal framework of forced care. In addition, alternatives to prevent forced care should be considered as far as possible. Mr. Chairman. Our group is focusing today on the Health and Force Act. With the introduction of the Social Support Act 2015, the Wmo, self-reliance and efforts to stay at home for as long as possible for people with mental illness is a fact. People with a psychogeriatric disorder or intellectual disability often need care on various aspects of their lives. A view of healing or improvement is lacking and the need for care will often increase over the years. The Health and Force Act introduces an arrangement for the provision of care to this group of people, even if they do not agree to it in any case. This involuntary care is also applicable in home situations, but it is not yet known about which forms of outpatient care will be involved because this needs to be further regulated at AMvB. At the end of October 2014, Dagblad Trouw reported that research carried out by Maastricht University on home-living dementias revealed that no less than 79% received involuntary care, for example by administering food, fluid or medication, and 7% was limited in their physical freedom through bonding or confinement in the home. According to the letter of the Secretary of State of State of the United States of America dated 26 June 2015 on psychopharmaceuticals that its medicinal products are active against mental illness.................................................................................................................................................................. And a third of clients in disability care institutions received this type of medicine even for more than 10 years in 78% of cases. In short, the administration of psychopharmaceuticals without the explicit consent of the patients was until recently rule rather than exception and, as it appeared, was often caused by procedural embarrassment on the part of the caregivers. The introduction of the Roadmap into the Health and Force Act sets rules for the application of involuntary care. These apply both in an accommodation where the client stays voluntarily or involuntarily, and in a home situation. As early as 2008 the Council of State placed our comments on the position of the resident client receiving extramural care for exactly a decade. Mr. Chairman. Does the Minister recognise that the risk of legal embarrassment in the care provider or caregiver in a home situation is many times greater than in an inpatient institution? Does the Minister consider that including involuntary care in a roadmap or care plan could effectively prevent the risk of disproportionate coercion in a home situation? Our group is by no means convinced of this, certainly not in the light of the facts that have just been mentioned. Can the Minister explain why the form of involuntary outpatient care is not included in the law, but should be further regulated at AMvB? I come to the distinction between the Law on compulsory mental health care and the Law on care and compulsion. The government has indicated that the Wvggz and Wzd legislative proposals each have their own target group and, accordingly, a different regime in terms of implementation and legal protection. However, as indicated at the expert meeting of 16 May 2017, in practice this distinction between the different target groups is not so clear. Often these are people with multi-problems. On the question of when which law is applicable, the Government states in the reply that it is up to a competent doctor to determine which disorder is dominant and that the concern for both legislative proposals is almost identical. But, Mr President, how can this answer be consistent with the essential difference between an inclusion under the Wvggz, which is always accompanied by a judicial review, and an inclusion under the Wzd, where the independent review is lacking if the client does not show willingness to but does not oppose admission? After all, according to Article 22 Act care and coercion is only required when the client opposes inclusion, a judicial authorisation is required. But in all cases this is a measure of freedom-limiting. Mr. Chairman. Especially in the case of a passive attitude of a client with a variety of disorders, it will be difficult to understand when the client actually resists or does not oppose admission. People suffering from mental illness in combination with dementia or mental disability often do not see the consequences of such inclusion in accommodation. For both categories such a recording is not temporary but rather permanent. Therefore, from the point of view of legal certainty and the desire to harmonise regulations, 50PLUS is in favour of the need for a judicial authorisation for admission to accommodation even in the case of a passive attitude by the client. How does the Minister feel about this? I come to the relationship between the healthcare provider and the Wzd doctor. The majority of the House of Representatives has rightly opted for the introduction of a Wzd doctor. However, Mr President, this raises questions in the field about the relationship between the care provider and the Wzd doctor and the concrete demarcation of powers. Each of them has independent powers. Both are responsible for the care plan in which involuntary care is included. In particular, the introduction of the Wzd doctor as final responsibility for the category of people with intellectual disabilities who do not need medical treatment is highly critical. The extra link of the Wzd doctor would have no added value for good care. My group agrees with one of the Minister's proposals made in a letter dated 18 December 2017 to amend the Health and Force Act in such a way that an EZ psychologist or an academicly trained orthopedagogist can also fulfil the role of Wzd-doctor, but he points out that the primacy for these three changes is, of course, with the Second Chamber. Nor does it make it easier to understand the already very complex matter. We wonder whether this is not a pre-announcement of many more future amendments to the apparently incomplete three legislative proposals. Mr. Chairman. If the present legislative proposals are to be adopted by our Chamber soon, the legislative changes already announced will have to be dealt with separately and the AMvBs will still have to be completed, what will this mean in the interim for the feasibility of this regulation? I'd like a response from the Minister. Let me now turn to the role of the district attorney and the medical statement. 50PLUS strongly supports the prevention of escalation by timely intervention. Who doesn't, I'd say. The role assigned to the family can contribute to this. After all, the family is often the first to receive signals about a deterioration in the psychic condition of a family member. If forced care appears inevitable, the Public Prosecutor may apply to the court for authorisation to take care, thereby forcing compulsory admission. This request must be accompanied by a medical certificate from a psychiatrist to identify the mental disorder and the causal relationship between the mental disorder and the serious disadvantage. Does this mean that the district attorney always takes the medical statement as an undisputed starting point? Will a request for authorisation for care be omitted if there is no causal link between the disorder and serious disadvantage? What vision prevails when the prosecutor disagrees with the medical certificate issued? In that case, can the district attorney obtain a second opinion on his own? Will the Public Prosecutor not focus primarily on preventing crime and therefore perhaps not be more inclined to assume the possibility of serious harm in advance? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. Finally, I have a question about forensic care. Our group would like to hear the Minister's response to the alternative proposal of the Dutch Data Protection Authority as set out in the letter of 11 January 2018 to create the possibility for the judges to impose a TBs measure within two years of the conviction becoming irrevocable. Is the Minister prepared to amend the law to this effect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group is also pleased to welcome three new leaders to this Chamber. Welcome aboard. I wish the Ministers and the Secretary of State a good time here in this house, but also, of course, a great deal of enthusiasm and wisdom in serving our country with the portfolios entrusted to them. I am, of course, looking forward to the debate we are having here this day. The directors did not bring along the most simple legislative proposals to kick this off, but let that be an encouragement to a good partnership but above all a very good treatment of these laws. I look forward to that. Mr. Chairman. I come to the legislative proposals before us. If our lives or those of our loved ones are so fragile that good care is needed, then we also want good care, which, wherever possible, contributes to recovery and does justice to the independence and dignity of people. Every day many carers, aid workers and medics try to provide the best possible care, sometimes with progress and recovery as a result and sometimes not at all. But the care and the proximity remain. The desire to allow people to function independently as much as possible and to have control over their lives remains as well. Force must be the last resort and remain. It is good to keep the laws and regulations that must guide the forced care in the light of current practice and in the light of ideal practice, and to ask us whether the Netherlands is now a country where you can be vulnerable. Are there suitable, good, professional help and protection, sometimes against yourself? Is the Netherlands therefore a safe society? Those are the questions we're talking about today. These are complex questions, as can be seen in the run-up to and scale of the three legislative proposals before us, which cannot be read separately. The Christian Union Group supports the idea that it is good to leave behind the era in which the current law is a recording law. The new laws are treatment laws, have an eye for the different degrees of forced care and see compulsion as an ultimum remedium. These are rightly the guiding principles, which differ substantially from the current BOPZ Act. The scope needs to change. Not only the institutions, but also forms of small-scale care and care at home are much more common, as more and more people live longer at home despite illness or limitations. This calls for a new legal framework to be set up to implement Article 11 of the Constitution. Despite the good underlying principles, however, the present legislative proposals also give rise to the necessary head-breaks. First of all, the long journey and the many notes of amendment make these laws complex. That starts quite literally with the health and compulsion bill. The legal text that is still before us and the explanatory memorandum are actually incomprehensible without knowing the mandatory ggz Act. It is incredibly complicated for anyone who has not been introduced into the process, but simply wants to understand how the law works and for what purpose choices have been made, to get a good answer to it quickly and even less quickly. My group could therefore have proposed an amended full explanatory statement. Has the Minister, who really has the advantage of being able to look at this whole thing with a fresh, fresh look, not got that idea? It is now announced that all information will be made available to those involved, but wouldn't a readable package leaflet by law promote that most of all? And how does the cabinet ensure that the new rules are accessible to all concerned, including the different target groups, in an understandable way? Is that well before the law comes into force? Can the Minister undertake to do so? An important question from my group is whether the current chosen system of a separate law mandatory ggz and a separate law for psychogeriatric and intellectually limited patients is sensible. The BOPZ Act has been evaluated several times and very extensively. This has resulted in good lessons, but it is also clear from reading back that previous evaluations have taken place in a different time. I am thinking now of the second evaluation of the 2002 BOPZ Act. It is precisely this evaluation that the government takes into account as a basis for the choice of two legislative proposals. When it was started to write the present laws, that was certainly imaginable, but in the course of time insights change. The law evaluation of ZonMw's forced care from 2014 is really different. I find the most striking point to be the difference in legal protection between patients in the compulsory ggz Act and those covered by the Health and Force Act. The government has argued in detail that the differences are mainly due to the individuality of the two target groups and then refers to the second evaluation of the BOPZ Act, but I do not think that answer is satisfactory anymore. The evaluation of twelve years later shows precisely that, for example, in the case of coercive medication, it is not clear why patients in the Wvggz have a different level of legal protection than those covered by the Health and Force Act. Why is it not better to see how this can be brought to a more equal level? Can the Minister explain this? It is also not easy to keep a clear and clear legislative proposal in a procedure of many years. We can see that, too. The creation of the BOPZ Act, in 23 years, could have been a warning; at least that has now proved to be the case, because the laws that lie ahead underline that again. As a result, there is a danger that the legislator will always be behind the facts. Isn't that preventable? Does the Minister have a reflection on that? The most recent evaluation of the laws on forced care is, moreover, clear about the best final situation: one legal regime and then differentiation for the different sectors. It mentions the possibility of the two laws working side by side for several years and subsequently integrating them. In this light, I am very curious to see what the Minister thinks of that possibility. What does he do if the next evaluation, two years after the entry into force of the laws, again shows that one law is a much better starting point? He has, of course, the knowledge that results from the past suggest that it will then take about a year or so before something new comes along. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I will continue my speech more focused on the Health and Force Act, further to mention Wzd. In addition to the level of legal protection, my group's concerns on this point focus in particular on the feasibility and implementation of the detailed rules. The Roadmap has become comprehensive, but at the same time important issues remain unclear. Just take the question of who is now identified as the caretaker. This may be a competent doctor or the person belonging to a category of experts considered by the Minister to be qualified in further legislation and subsequently designated by the healthcare provider. Does this mean that the caretaker is an academic? Or can that be the current caregiver, usually with an MBO education? Or, by definition, can it only be found under Article 1 (1) (h) as a "care provider"? But they are often the performers of the care plan, aren't they? Look at Article 5. Can the Minister at least guarantee that the caregiver is also at the table when drawing up and discussing the care plan? I'd like to make that clear. Mr. Chairman. In the Lower House, the Wzd doctor has been incorporated into the law by amendment as a final piece of the step-by-step plan. The considerations behind them are understandable to the Christian Union. Colleagues have already asked me a few questions about this. For the sake of time, I'm skipping a piece of my text, but those were exactly the questions that my group also has. Can the Minister further outline the implications for the professional qualifications required of caregivers and caregivers? Are there enough doctors and caretakers, for example? If so, what does the government base this knowledge on? If not, will the Minister manage to reach an acceptable level within the implementation period? And then what is acceptable? I would like to see this clarified and I think that this is an important point to follow. With regard to internal supervision, I also have questions. This is laid down by both the healthcare provider and the Wzd doctor and should be laid down in the healthcare plan. This means that it can vary considerably from patient to healthcare provider to patient. Why was that chosen? What profit does this vague demarcation yield? Why the vagueness? The Council of State has warned that the scale and detail of the care plan could lead to it becoming a review framework, and that it could result in an undesirable too much legalisation of the care process. In replying in writing to our questions on this subject, the Minister simply states that there is so much and is invested in the cultural change that there is no need for concern. We hope so, of course, with the cabinet, but we really do ask that we keep our finger on the pulse here too and that we involve this in the evaluation. Is that what the Minister is planning? Mr. Chairman. Then the Law mandatory ggz. Here too, the starting point is that mandatory care is the ultimate remedium. Only when there is no longer any possibility of voluntary care, and in compliance with the principles of proportionality, subsidiarity, efficiency and safety, is compulsory care an option. The quality of compulsory care must be as good as possible. However, the details of these principles have been substantially modified during the legislative process. Of course, that is most true of all for the position of the Public Prosecutor and the central applicant role that has been invested there. There are still a number of questions for the Christian Union Group on this issue. First of all, there is the presence of the public prosecutor at the court hearing at the oral examination of the application for authorisation for care. The law says the district attorney should be there, unless it's obvious that this has no added value. But when is something obvious? Who can predict that? And what if the district attorney doesn't clearly consider his presence necessary, but the person concerned does? How does the government consider the outcome of the first pilots that this provision was only in exceptional cases of added value? Can we go into more detail on these findings? The Public Prosecutor's Office advocated a much stricter wording in this house itself. In the literature I came across the suggestion of mandating qualified employees. I'd like to hear a response from the cabinet. The mayor may take a crisis measure under Article 7.1. But this article also raises questions. The mayor should, if possible, allow the person concerned to be heard. By whom should the person concerned be heard and what does the legislator mean by "if possible"? Is this related to the condition of the person concerned or are there more exceptions possible? The implications of the exploratory study carried out by the College of Mayors and Aldermen in Articles 5.1 and 5.2 will also have to be further developed. An important question here, which also lives with the VNG, is what information may be used. What legal basis is there and how is the assessment made if, for example, it is considered important to check whether the person about whom the notification is being made is already going through a voluntary care process? To what extent will the privacy of the data subject be weighed? And what support is there for small communities? However, the law that raises most questions is Article 2.3 of the Forensic Care Act in relation to the Law mandatory ggz. Here, civil law and criminal law are mixed together and Article 37 of the Code of Criminal Law is deleted. Both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Judicial Board see a gap. Can the Minister explain why two circuits have been chosen here and this cannot be regulated within criminal law? How is it that there has not been proper consideration of the fact that there is no case against decisions of the penitentiary chamber and against decisions within the framework of the Wvggz? Isn't that a recipe for chunks? I'd like a response. I will therefore continue with the Forensic Care Act. The Group of the Christian Union is not yet convinced that the current proposed regime for non-observing observers is the best. Because, yes, it is indigestible if suspects do not cooperate in investigations, avoid tbs and get out after their punishment, whereas treatment should actually be considered necessary. Agreed. But are the possibilities offered by the current law properly filled in? And does the proposed regulation not constitute a major risk that potential suspects will avoid care, so that any treatment that could have prevented worse will not take place? The Dutch Data Protection Authority, for whom the breach of medical professional secrecy weighs heavily, has informed the First Chamber of an alternative solution, which distinguishes between punishment and measure and maintains medical professional secrecy, but in which the defendants do not get away with refusing investigation during the criminal proceedings. How does the Minister view this alternative? Is he willing to consider it instead of the current proposal for non-observatories? Is the proposed regulation actually workable? I have understood it so well, and I would like to hear from the Minister whether that is true, Mr President, that a committee will consider whether there are relevant documents in the medical file for the criminal case and that the prosecutor should ask the Penitentiary Chamber for an authorisation to use them. And if the penitentiary chamber has to decide on that, it can only speak to the chairman of the committee and not see the documents. But how can such a penitentiary room judge without seeing the pieces? Does the Minister not expect any problems in the drafting of the law in this respect? I'm curious. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. The Christian Union Group is concerned about the complexity and coherence of these laws, the different degrees of legal protection of patients, the implementation of further regulation, feasibility and implementation. In addition, under the Forensic Care Act, I still need to be convinced of the effectiveness of the proposed scheme for non-observatories. At the same time, my group also sees that the BOPZ Act is no longer satisfactory. I am therefore very looking forward to the response of the Secretary of State and the Ministers. They are at the beginning of a new cabinet period and can work for the most vulnerable in our society to give them even better care and a good place in a safe society. Then it is important that laws are in line with existing practice in care, and that laws guide the ideals that we all have here to make coercion increasingly disappear from care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Madam President. First a welcome to our three new rulers. In terms of complexity and challenge, of course, these three proposals for legislation are a challenge to them. Mr President, I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Animal Party as well. Three legislative proposals dealing with forced care are being discussed today. Colleague Anneke Wezel will focus on the Wet forensic care. My speech concerns the Law on compulsory mental health care and the Law on care and compulsion for psychogeriatric and mentally handicapped clients. First of all, I would like to look at the current developments in mental health care in relation to the draft laws. I would then like to discuss the two draft laws in more detail on the basis of a few comments and questions. I will conclude by commenting on the coherence of the legislative proposals before us. Mr President, I hope that this debate will bring these complex legislative processes that have been going on for many years to a successful conclusion. I will spare you the list of what has passed and what has happened. The legislative proposals are, from an evolutionary point of view, an improvement in the current Law special inclusion in psychiatric hospitals of 1994 and the corresponding insanity law of 1884. I suspect I may be the only senator who has applied coercive care to people with mental illness under the law of the Insanity Act and the Law special inclusion in psychiatric hospitals in practice. From 1982 to 1993 I carried out these activities in several psychiatric hospitals and in the Bijlmerbajes. Applying compulsions to people, however seriously ill, is and still is very serious to me. When writing this text, sharp memories came back to me. If, as a psychiatric nurse at the time, I still carry with me so many painful images of these compulsions and actions, what should it mean for the persons in whom coercion has been applied? I know that this has left deep life-long impressions for some people who have been subjected to coercive measures. This gives me an ambivalent feeling when discussing these legislative proposals. Forced to be able to provide care: it remains double. However fine-meshed and necessary because of the disease, it sometimes remains to act against the meaning of another. I brought a key, Mr. Chairman. This key probably depicts most of my oppressive memories back then. It fits at the end of what is called a Swedish band. With that, you could tie confused, restless patients to bed. All well-meant, but so contrary to the patient's freedom. I will be happy to give it to the Secretary of State for the sake of further work on these complex legislative proposals, so that we never forget how profound the consequences of our decisions can be here! The present draft laws are based on the client's need for care. In doing so, clients are given more control over their own treatment. The family gets a position on this. Legal protection is increasing. Mandatory tailor-made care is also possible in the home situation. And so there are many more changes to report. Force and urge are an ultimatum remedium and should not go beyond what is strictly necessary, if there are no possibilities for voluntary care and if all the criteria for compulsory or involuntary care are met. Forced care requires good legal protection and careful procedures. For the fraction of the SP, this is an essential condition in order to avoid unnecessary coercive measures. However, these principles have been formulated from the perspective of the draft laws before us. But there are more frameworks that determine the prevention of compulsory care. So today we are discussing new legislation to prevent forced care as much as possible. However, the number of coercive measures in mental health care and youth care has been increasing for many years. This is an undesirable development. Why is it still in the ggz that people are being separated? Isn't the use of compulsion and, above all, of traditional isolation cells in the ggz a legacy of the past? Those questions were probably also asked by the signatories of the Dolhuys manifesto in 2016. "The Dutch Ggz Separation Free!" So is the title of this manifesto. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of this? The number of forced admissions and coercive measures is increasing. The number of reports received by the Health Inspectorate in 2016 for the years 2010-2015 shows an increase of 30% in coercive withdrawals, means or measures. Following written questions from our group on this matter to the former Minister, it appears that this increase cannot be properly explained. Fortunately, the Secretary of State is aware of this social problem. However, a commitment on the disclosure of inspection data on the application of coercion for 2016 is not sufficient. Isn't it time to regulate the use of Argus data? According to MIND, the National Platform for Psychic Health, the disclosure of these data would also be a step forward to give a good insight into the application of coercive care in the ggz, where the registration of coercion in the home situation should become a part of it. Research is needed to achieve a good action plan against compulsion. Why are ggz providers not actually obliged to make their coercive measures transparent to third parties or to publish them in an annual report if necessary, I ask the Secretary of State. Stopping this growth of coercive measures requires the involvement of the sector, of the client organisations, of the professionals, but also of the government. Our group urges the Secretary of State to reduce, inter alia, MIND and the ggz sector the number of forced withdrawals and coercive measures and thus to enter into a visible pact in line with the principles of the Dolhuys Manifesto. I would ask the Secretary of State to take the initiative to take the lead in this movement. Another question about the waiting lists in the specialist ggz. Is there a link between the length of the waiting lists for treatment in the ggz and the use of coercive measures? The long waiting lists are already on the political agenda. A solution is even being worked out: for the coming summer holidays the waiting lists must be in line with the bar standard. I believe that today we received a letter from the Minister in response to the NZa report. The waiting list problem was also on the radio today. Why do we have these waiting lists? Money isn't the problem, but what is, I ask the Secretary of State. What role does the purchase of ggz care by the health insurance companies play in this? Forced admission into specialist care costs the person undergoing the admission, his own risk. This works obstructively; people who delay their necessary specialist care due to their own risk. If their psychiatric condition then deteriorates and they have to be admitted against their will, they still have to pay their own risk. Can the Secretary of State tell us anything about the extent of this kind of care avoidance? What about your own risk of being recorded through the criminal justice system? My final question in this connection is the following. The Dutch Association for Psychiatry notes an increasing pressure on its psychiatrists to actively intervene with people with confused behaviour from the context of social security. But people with confused behavior don't have to be psychiatricly ill. It is worth noting that the number of people with a psychiatric problem in our society is fairly stable. The debate on confused persons may seem to be about a form of social confusion. Clearly, we cannot place different forms of behaviour from the perspective of a well-organised individualised citizen. The legislative proposal is clear: mandatory care is only possible as an ultimatum remedium within a treatment environment. How can we prevent an erosion of the term 'ultimum remedium' in this context, I would ask the directors? Are psychiatrists the defenders of carefully applying mandatory care in the context of ultimum remedium? I would like to ask a number of questions which go into a few more detail on both draft legislations. A crucial criterion in both draft laws is "serious disadvantage"; a situation of serious disadvantage due to a psychological problem or mental disability in which a resident has fallen. But what is meant by this "serious disadvantage"? To our group's written questions, the government answers that there is no intention to expand on the current hazard criterion used under the Special Inclusion of Psychiatric Hospitals Act. However, the government writes in reply to another question from our group: "under the law mandatory ggz can be dealt with earlier by means of lighter forms of coercion." How do these two answers relate to each other? Has the harmonization of the two legislative proposals not created an extension of the "serious disadvantage" criterion? The aim of the Health and Force Bill is to extend the hazard criterion of the BOPZ Act? Or do I read in both legislative proposals a similar criterion "serious disadvantage" but with the possibility of different interpretation? I would ask the Secretary of State to state very clearly what is happening now with the definition of the "serious disadvantage" criterion so that clients with their family, the professionals, but also the public administration, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary know very clearly how to implement the "serious disadvantage" criterion. Still another puzzle question, this time on the subject of willing people with a psychiatric illness. We have asked the government written questions about this. The answer to these questions refers to Article 2.1 (6) of the compulsory ggz Act. I quote from the answer: willful resistance must also be respected if the patient's mental illness causes a significant risk of harm to the person concerned. There is, however, a lower limit to this capacity for will, i.e. if there is an acute danger of life, such as suicide. What if I'm willing and physically severely ill, but I refuse my treatment, which threatens an acute danger of life? That's the kind of trade-off I'm allowed to make. There'll be no grounds for coercive care. But if I'm willing and mentally ill and therefore no longer want to live, I don't think I should refuse this treatment. "Does there exist a difference in willfulness between people with or without psychiatric illness?', That's how I ask the rulers. The Care and Force Act aims, among other things, to improve the legal protection of the client. The inspection will monitor remotely. The judge has a minimal role to play and the clients have to rely on expert care providers who will closely follow the roadmap. This makes the client-confidence person an important guarantee. The ministry of VWS has provided funding for the project Door Development function client confidence person under the Care and Force Act. Our group is curious how the Minister will use the results of this project. In the Decision care and coercion, which is now offered for internet consultation, there is no mention of defining the professionalisation of the function of the client confidant. We also read that the providers of customer confidence work must provide their own training. I ask the Minister if each club will now organise its own training. Why not provide national training based on the results of the above-mentioned project? The client-confidence person, compared to the patient-confidence person in the ggz, is going to get an equal status and quality? For the sake of clarity, this was agreed with the House of Representatives in 2015? Doesn't that include national funding? We're not going to put the function of client confidant in the tender, are we? Why is this not organised in the same way as in the patient confidant? The CIZ is going to play an important role through the Health and Force Act. The tasks and powers of the CIZ increase considerably, including in the case of the judicial authorisation. The Judge may, at the request of the CIZ, grant a judicial authorisation. This is a new role for the CIZ. Is the Minister prepared to work out the procedure for the judicial authorisation, but also the procedure for the admission and residence of clients who do not make a choice, in consultation with the professional groups and relevant client organisations? The government has chosen to refrain from designing a new comprehensive law on coercive care. The practical impact of these three laws will therefore be significant for implementation practice. There's a lot to settle. First of all, it was already mentioned earlier, which is a good guide for the implementation practice. But I also mention the training of professionals and the adjustments within the Public Prosecutor's Office. You can fill it all out; it has been said before. You're gonna be busy, Minister. The Minister has already announced that he will come forward with repair legislation before the start date of the three laws. Shouldn't we wait with this repair legislation? After the start there will be a lot more to repair. I therefore call for an appropriate two-year phasing-in period and for the possibility for professional groups and client organisations to provide feedback directly from the introduction to the VWS Ministry. I think it's kind of annoying, but you could call it a "colliding point." I would like to hear a response from the Minister on this matter. I'm coming to a closure. It is good to say that we will not now respond to the repair legislation announced by the Minister. The substantive discussion of these two subjects is initially a matter for the House of Representatives. The present legislative proposals focus on the care needs of the client, whether at home or in an institution. These are three legislative proposals which are coordinated but each has its own regime. However, this also means that there are differences between the Care and Force Act and the Compulsory ggz Act, for example in the judicial review of compulsory care. This has been discussed extensively in the debates in the House of Representatives. In response to this inequality, among other things, the Wzd doctor has been introduced by my party. The introduction of the previously appointed client confidant, by analogy with the patient confidant in the ggz, also has to do with this. It appears that the maximum degree of coordination has been achieved at present, knowing that this difference in the legal status of clients remains. As a SP, we are already looking forward to the forthcoming evaluation of the legislative proposals before us. The government has not chosen to design a completely new law on compulsory care. These three legislative proposals, each with their own origins, will have to be coordinated and properly implemented. All this in the context of a strong social discussion with opinions and views on confused persons, together with a ggz system that begins to crack down, among other things, through health insurance bureaucracy, the lack of psychiatrists and growing waiting lists. There are also problems in the care of the elderly, including staffing problems. This is not a good idea to roll out these three complex laws. As a SP Group, we agree with the basic principles of these legislative proposals, but our great concern lies in their future implementation. I ask the directors if they share this concern and if so, what they intend to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Don. I give the floor to Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I welcome the Ministers and the Secretary of State. I wish them much strength, wisdom and perseverance in order to carry out their important work. I will speak here on behalf of the SP Group and the Party for Animals Group on the Forensic Care Act. With this proposal, the prosecutor and the judge will have the opportunity to provide mental care to someone within criminal law more quickly. The main objectives of this bill are: the right patient in the right place, the creation of sufficient forensic care capacity, quality care focused on the safety of society and a good connection between forensic and curative care. By providing good care as part of the punishment, the cabinet wants to reduce the repetition of criminal offences. The SP and the Animal Party fully support the aforementioned objectives of the law and wish ministers to achieve these objectives. The SP and the Party for Animals consider it important that the condemned are punished for their crimes, but also that they are given such care that they return to society well prepared after their detention. The SP and the Party for Animals do see points of interest for the success of the bill: firstly, on the available funds for forensic care; secondly, on the link between the failing ggz system and the influx into forensic psychiatry; thirdly, on the subject of suspects who do not wish to participate in a Tbs observation; fourthly, on the action of the Health and Youth Inspectorate; and fifth and last in the matter of post-care. On the first point, I would like to ask whether the resources available are sufficient to achieve the objectives pursued. Given the news coverage, there is still a long way to go to achieve the aforementioned goals, for example in forensic youth care. The Netherlands Institute of Forensic Psychiatry and Psychology has an annual report on the minor suspect in about 700 youth, including an opinion to the judge on appropriate therapy to prevent the recurrence of the crime. Think of trainings that combat aggression or drug use, or family counseling and treatments in forensic mental health care. The judge often follows this advice. Research shows that young people receiving such treatments are much less likely to go over the line again. Young people who are not in therapy are at greater risk of committing another violent crime. If the judge is imposing therapy, it's obviously necessary, and then it has to be done. The District Attorney says the municipalities have to take care of it. Research carried out by the Volkskrant in August 2017 shows that young people who have been required to receive therapy often have to wait a long time in the criminal justice framework, sometimes for a year. This is due to waiting lists and the reluctance of municipalities, which have been responsible for special care for young people since decentralisation. According to the VNG, the juvenile court is not always well aware of the health care institutions with which municipalities have contracts and of any waiting lists. The UNG therefore talks with the judiciary to find out what youth assistance is needed and to give justice a better insight into which care has been purchased by municipalities. The problem lies more in the complexity of the new youth aid system than in the bureaucracy of municipalities, says a VNG spokesperson. A spokesperson of the youth psychiatric center de Bascule in Amsterdam reported in a newspaper report that the sharp cuts in the specialist youth aid reduced the number of places available, resulting in waiting lists. A further problem is that there are municipalities that want to pay less and less for this care, says the spokesperson, so that they will no longer be able to deliver the necessary quality. Could the Ministers respond to this message and, if it is correct, how they intend to address the reduction in the number of places available for specialised youth assistance and the waiting lists? Do the ministers recognise that the municipalities want to pay less and less for this concern and how do the ministers view it? Will the temporary mobilisation of 45 million and the proposals of this cabinet be sufficient? Then the secure forensic care. In the report Marktscan Forensische Zorg 2016 of the Dutch Healthcare Authority, I read that policy makers are focusing on more outpatient and lower-security forensic care and on phasing out the higher-security forensic care. The Ministry of Security and Justice agreed to reduce expenditure on forensic care from 688 million in 2013 to 602 million in 2017 with industry organisations GGZ Nederland and the Association of Disabled Care Netherlands. The savings had to be made by reducing the average treatment time of TBs from ten years in 2013 to eight years in 2017, reducing the number of TBs places and promoting the flow to healthcare providers that can provide lower care and stay intensity, such as forensic clinics and departments and providers of protected and supervised living in 2017. Has the average duration for TBs been reduced to eight years in 2017 and has the number of outpatient TBs been increasing? What are the effects of this on the social position and the recurrence of the treated subjects? I am curious to see how ministers intend to monitor whether the forensic care provided is effective for those involved, but also for society, and what ministers see as effective. Is there any change to the new legislation mentioned above? I'd like to hear the Minister's response. Then there is the second point. Is there a connection between the bumping ggz system and the influx into forensic psychiatry? Police have already received 41,082 reports of confused persons in the first half of 2017. Throughout 2016, this number was 74,875. A police chief in the Rotterdam region said in September: "More people die from confused persons than from terror." Care for people with confused behavior has become a matter of justice, police and prison. Former psychiatrist Höppener says in an interview in Trouw of 13 January 2018 that the current care of mental health care is back to what used to be called revolving door psychiatry. Move out as soon as possible. Within the municipal policy, own strength is central. You have to want something of your own and the neighbors have to take care of prevention. The not coming is seen as not wanting. Do the ministers agree with the SP and the Animal Party that there should be primary support and care for confused people and not a cell and, if so, how does the Minister of Health take his role as system responsible? A good conversation with the aldermen who have care in their portfolio seems to the SP Group and the Party for the Animals somewhat thin. I'd like the Minister's response. Is there a connection between the ggz system that fails through waiting lists and runaway psychiatrists and other factors that cause psychiatrically ill people to fall out and then some come back through forensic psychiatry in the ggz? I'd like the Minister's response. The third point concerns the suspect who does not want to participate in a TBS observation. The murders of former Minister Borst and Anne Faber are examples of incidents caused by confused persons. The SP and the Animal Party therefore agree with the government that if suspects suffering from mental illness commit serious crimes, they also need treatment for themselves, but in particular for the protection of society. The legislative proposal makes it possible to recover and use existing medical data for the purpose of investigating the presence of a mental disorder in suspects of crimes for which TBs may be imposed, but who refuse to cooperate with the necessary investigation. The Forensic Care Act thus introduces an exception to the prohibition of the processing of special personal data, as well as a legal obligation to break the medical professional secrecy for emergency workers with whom the suspect has or has had a treatment relationship. The bill suggests that the judge can request the medical file in case a suspect refuses to cooperate in a TBS investigation. In the opinion of the SP and the Party for Animals, the interruption of medical professional secrecy is too heavy and undesirable. As a result, everyone's confidence in doctors is being undermined because medical professional secrecy is being called into question. However, there are alternatives that can have the same or perhaps even a better result. An example of an alternative has been submitted by the Dutch Data Protection Authority. This proposal provides for the law to allow the public prosecutor to ask the court to impose the TBs measure in addition or instead of the prison sentence already imposed within two years of the conviction becoming irrevocable. The SP and the Party for Animals submit to you the proposal of the Personal Data Authority to supplement it in such a way that the convicted person can also ask the judge himself. There may also be considerations of the convicted person to work on himself, for which there is limited scope in detention. Is the government prepared to reconsider this part of the bill and examine the aforementioned alternative? The fourth point is the action of the Health and Youth Inspectorate. In the case of Michael P., the Ministry of Justice and Security and the Health and Youth Inspectorate have been asked by the Minister for Research. This is because of the question from the Lower House and the society how Michael P. could have had so much freedom of movement that it was possible that he robbed Anne Faber of his life. What interests and risk weights have been taken here and has social security been taken into account? The inspections have understood the research question as whether the forensic institution has given good care to the patients. The SP Group finds it incomprehensible that the two inspections did not deal with the questions from the Dutch Parliament and society in the investigation carried out in October and November 2017. I understand there's a second investigation coming up. Why not do it in one go? Several parties in the Lower House, including the SP, the CDA, the VVD, the PVV, GroenLinks and D66, have been complaining about the research reports on the activities of the Health Care Inspectorate for many years. They have repeatedly called on former Minister Schippers to really tackle the Health Inspectorate. I would like to quote the words of the VVD spokesperson in the Lower House: "It is high time for a deep debate on the functioning of the Health Care Inspectorate." What the hell is going on out there, Minister? In the opinion of the SP and the Party for Animals, the government cannot do without a well-functioning Health Care Inspectorate. I'd like to hear the Minister's response. Furthermore, the SP Group would like to know whether the case of Michael P. has resulted in policy changes at the forensic clinics. I'd like to hear the Minister's response. Finally, the final point on after-care. It is important that all those punished after prison and after TBs treatment return to society, for society but also for themselves. An investigation by the Criminal and Youth Protection Board of October 2017 shows that municipalities, prisons and parole authorities are working together poorly in the post-mortem care of prisoners released. Municipalities are often late and poorly informed. Aftercare is intended to prevent prisoners from getting back into trouble after their release. That is a small chance if they get an ID, accommodation, income, care and, if necessary, help in dealing with their debts. But that often goes wrong, for example because municipalities are not told or too late that a prisoner is released, the RSJ concludes. What percentage of inmates leaves prison in a confused state and what is the role of parole in this? I'd like the Minister's response. Furthermore, it was suggested at the expert meeting as an improvement proposal to provide by law that the judge, who decides on the termination of the TBs, can also issue an authorisation under the Law on compulsory mental health care so that there is a seamless transition. What are the ministers' views on this? Could Ministers undertake to examine what can be improved on the care and aftercare of prisoners and T.B.S. to ensure that they are well prepared in society after their release, including the transition from forensic care to regular ggz and mental disability care? The SP Group and the Animal Party look forward to the response of the ministers. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mrs Wezel. I give the floor to Mr Schnabel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u19	For more than a hundred years, the Netherlands has had to do with the Insane Law of 1884 and the introduction of the BOPZ Act in 1994 has also preceded almost a quarter of a century of discussion. And in the almost quarter century since then, the law and implementation practice have been changed several times. Now the intention is to replace the BOPZ Act with three interrelated laws, each of which has a long period of discussion, preparation and modification behind it. These are, of course, also rules on fundamental questions about the limits of fundamental rights. The Law of Insanity was still based on the criterion of good will, which over time, however, was increasingly seen as too broad and too paternalistic at the same time. The BOPZ was, at least initially, based on a very strictly defined hazard criterion, which in practice proved to be too limited, also because the law did provide for compulsory inclusion but not forced treatment, which is contrary to the practice of mental health care of today. As a member of the National Council for Public Health in the 1980s, I was closely involved in advising on the future BOPZ, and I then argued, other than for the goodwill criterion and the danger criterion, for the development of what I then referred to as a common goodwill criterion. This is a way of finding a balance between, on the one hand, concerns about the situation of the patient and, on the other hand, the importance of protecting society and living together. That concept, commonwealth criterion, has not been accepted, but in the practice of the BOPZ and in the legislative proposals currently before us, especially in the Wvggz, there is, in my view, clearly a search for a balance between treatment and security, between caring and limiting danger. The fact that changes in the accents between the two poles can be recognized in the Wvggz's history of development is, in fact, inherent in the nature of the problem to which a solution has to be found. It is always about the extent to which and the moment when the assumption that adults are able to live within the broad rules of what is considered normal or acceptable, at least as not leading to serious harm for the person concerned and for others, at least by those others cannot be sustained. In this situation, of course, there is always the question: who can do what under what conditions and for what purpose? In view of the possible consequences of compulsory care, compulsory inclusion, loss of freedom of movement, the answer to that question cannot and should not be given easily. The Wvggz therefore contains no less than 50 pages of "rules for the provision of compulsory care to a person with mental illness," as the full title of the law reads, followed by another 50 pages of adaptation of other legislation. It is precisely because of this excess that it is not surprising that the VWS Minister had to point out in his letter of 18 December 2017 the "by mistake' in the second letter of amendment to the Wvggz removal of Article 13 (4) which regulates the detection of patients who have withdrawn from compulsory care. If it goes wrong, it is, of course, mainly seen as the failure of the aid and not as an 'abortion' of the legislator. This obviously long unnoticed error is perhaps indicative of the risk posed by precisely the large number of rules laid down in the law, the strict procedures to be followed, the many authorities, disciplines and individuals involved and the decision-making over time and sometimes months. In this way, it can become formally and morally better the enemy of what is practical and clinically seen by professionals in the ggz as the good and necessary. My group therefore welcomes a commitment from the Minister to pay particular attention to this dilemma in the evaluation. This immediately implies that the evaluation should not be based on simply a poll of opinions and experiences after the second year of application of the law, but that from the outset this application should be closely monitored in order to identify what is good and what is not good. The research should actually go along with the application of the law; in the past, you would call that "action research." The insights gained in this way can be used again for the series of AMvBs that is still to be expected. This is not therefore the final evaluation, but the constant response during the first years of application to what is gained in practice. Mr. Chairman. In many respects, the Wvggz represents an improvement on the BOPZ; some of its colleagues have already made this clear. This improvement is also reflected in the much greater attention and appreciation for the patient's social environment. The strengthening of the role of the family in the care process has even given rise to the establishment of a family confidant. A concern, not yet addressed in the law, is either the ratio of this figure to the patient confidence person. I hope that the Minister or the Secretary of State will be able to shed some light on this, because it is not imaginary that these two persons of confidence can be confronted in practice. That does not mean that we can be happy that the time when the patient's family was seen as his most intimate enemy is behind us. The problem is now much sooner that the patients, to a large extent young men, often have no one and nothing to fall back on or get support from. Also the connection with a general practitioner is often totally lacking. This also makes it understandable why the Chief Constable of the National Police, Erik Akerboom, calls for the prevention of the use of the police in a situation that is then out of hand to have a ggz worker in each district. In fact, it is a call for the return of the use of acute and social psychiatry, as it used to be in the big cities. Since the 1930s, the "driving psychiatrist" of the Amsterdam GGD had been following the international and at least much discussed and admired example of this. Today, too: mandatory care in the ggz should be embedded in a system of "intruder care," of permanent contact and contact with those concerned. In the interest of the effectiveness of the Wvggz in particular, my group calls on the VWS Minister to reach the best possible agreements with the municipalities, the police, the ggz and also with the first line, which may ultimately lead to a less frequent appeal to the Wvggz and to the use of the police in some situations. Mr. Chairman. In the long years in which work has been carried out on the BOPZ Act, there has been constant discussion as to whether there should be a common regime for the application of coercion for psychiatric patients, the mentally handicapped and psychogeriatric patients or a separate arrangement for each of the three groups, taking into account the specific characteristics and situation of each of them. It is a bit cynical afterwards to note that the choice of one common regulation proposed in principle in the BOPZ at the time was already abandoned for a very practical reason for the treatment of the law in parliament: the judiciary could be overburdened by the large number of judicial authorisations that would have to be issued in psychogeria under the BOPZ. "He who shuts up agrees" became the new starting point. This was also in line with the practice in the care sector and limited the need for a judicial authorisation to patients who clearly oppose admission to a nursing home. The debate has not been silenced, as it appears today in this house, but it has now become quite remarkablely counter-intuitive. At a time when the separation of compulsion in ggz and compulsion in psychogeriatrics and mentally handicapped people seems to be taking final legal form, there is, on the other hand, a stronger case for a single regulation or at least one framework for the two schemes. This is very clearly the case in ZonMW's Thematic Law Review Forced Care; it has also been mentioned here. The recommendations contained in the report by the Legemaate Committee have now found their way in the recent Leijten amendment, which the VWS Minister now likes to see 'composed' again, as he recently informed this Chamber. I will come back to that in a moment. First of all, I would like to discuss the Health and Force Act without the Leijten amendment. My group sees in the Wzd the further development of the mandatory legal regime applicable to psychogeriatry and mental disability in the context of the BOPZ. That has our support. We can also agree with the assignment to the caretakers for further consultation with their superiors and other experts. As the nature of the care becomes more involuntary and the need for it is also less shared by the person directly involved with the client, the caretaker also needs the consent of other experts, in the extreme case also in plural. However, my group would like to see a clarification by the Minister of his intention in the letter of 18 December to allow the advice of an external expert to take place only if this is necessary for 'good care'. Some colleagues have already pointed out that this could be a problem. Does the Minister refer to the expert referred to in Article 11? Wouldn't making it optional for an external expert to be called in leave too much room for the healthcare professional? Article 25 of that law governs the lodging of an application for a judicial authorisation to reside in an institution. In the case of a psychogeriatric placement, the question arises whether Article 25 (1) (d) also allows the general practitioner to act as an applicant. Who can act as the applicant in the event that a (potential) client does not have any bonds or persons involved? Can neighbors, for example, also act as applicants or the police or the Salvation Army, in the case of someone without permanent residence or residence? We would like to hear the views of the rulers on this. Mr. Chairman. I now come to the Leijten amendment. In his letter of 18 December, the VWS Minister stated that the construct was not in keeping with the practice of disability care, which was almost completely demedicalised a long time ago. The Minister hopes to be able to extend the role of the Wzd doctor to an orthopedagogic or an EZ psychologist. This seems logical and sensible, but the scope of the amendment does not relate to professional expertise as much as to responsibility for "the general course of action in the field of involuntary care." The healthcare provider is obliged to designate a Wzd doctor who is independent and who is not given instructions from the healthcare provider. In fact, this gives the Wzd doctor the position of medical director, as also established at the time by Secretary of State Van Rijn in his response to Mrs Leijten's proposal, which in itself is based on a recommendation from the Legemaate Committee. The character of the law therefore changes somewhat fundamentally. This is, of course, reinforced when this role can also be fulfilled by non-doctors. My group is very keen to hear the Minister's views on this further change in the law, which is also about others and not just about the Wzd doctor, especially in the light of his own proposal. The change proposed by the amendment covers many articles in the legislative proposal and includes, for example, the granting or refusal of leave and dismissal. In fact, the amendment makes a person without a line function in the organisation, possibly even without a job at the organisation, responsible for the establishment of an important part of the care without having to account for it. I hardly have to add that this does not seem to be a very desirable situation. Mr. Chairman. To conclude my discussion of the Health and Force Act, I would like to make a few comments on the concept of Decision care and coercion, which has now been given for consultation. The relevant AMvB, which lays down, in particular, rules on involuntary outpatient care, contains no less than 26 pages, of which 20 pages contain a very detailed explanation of the dos-and-don'ts, even if there is no answer, for example, to the question of whether forced use of, for example, contraception measures is permitted. In a previous existence, this VWS minister clearly had his own view on this. But the real don'ts mainly relate to containment and fixation of psychogeriatric patients. A balcony door may be locked, but not the front door. The wheelchair must not be put on the brake and wristbands to help someone eat are not allowed. I don't mind a bed gate. I don't think it's a stair gate. If you prescribe it in such detail, doesn't the situation threaten that the caregiver shouldn't be allowed to do what is simply done by a caregiver if necessary, possibly even in front of the caregiver? This seems to me to be painful for the helper and certainly not conducive to the caregiver's confidence in the aid. The question is whether you should go so far in detailing these kinds of situations. Involuntary outpatient care is new, as the directors put it themselves in the explanatory memorandum. In the consultation, they shall in particular ask questions as to the desirability of including the use of outpatient containment and fixation. Are there any answers to these questions in that consultation? Can the directors indicate whether and to what extent experimental work has already been carried out in accordance with the proposed directives and, where appropriate, what the results are? Mr. Chairman. The third proposal, the Forensic Care Bill, has been waiting for more than five years for the Supreme Court to decide. The practice of forensic care has not waited for this, because in fact work is already being done along the lines set out in the law. In general, I have been able to establish during conversations with psychiatrists working in this field, they are also satisfied with the possibilities to provide justieven with the care that the Wet forensic care enables. It has already been mentioned here: there is concern about the precise functioning of the transition between Article 37 of the Criminal Code and Article 2.3 of the Forensic Care Act, in particular about the possibility that this would lead to an important and non-risk-free difference in the composition of the patient population with a judicial authorisation for institutions in the regular ggz. I hope the Minister will be able to give us some more information. From both the description of the case Bart van U. in the report of the Hoekstra Committee and from what has become known about the case Michael P., it becomes clear that the communication between the different parties and chains, ggz, justice and police, is not only occasional, but also structurally inadequate. Interconnections are often difficult and in one's own chain the lines are often long, too long in many cases. As well as having different information, parties often do not have access to each other's information. An example is the information relating to the placement of a forensic patient with a healthcare provider. Is it correct, as my group is asking itself, and so I am now asking the Ministers through the President, that the wording of Article 6.1 (2) in fact excludes that the institution in which the patient is placed also has all the information relevant to that patient and, in particular, the indication and the associated clinical information? During the expert meeting of 16 May 2017, Mr Aalbersberg, Chief Police Commissioner in Amsterdam, pointed out from his position, and actually complained that the concern does expect information from the police, but does not itself give it. I assume that he is referring in particular to the dismissal of the forensic patient from care and his return to society. Each of the three laws on care and coercion requires the recording and processing of many data relating to the patient, but working with that data seems to be at odds with other values, such as medical confidentiality and patient privacy. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is very interested in a response from the directors to the question of the extent to which better information could contribute both to the security of society and to the protection of the forensic patient against its own impulses. In the end, medical confidentiality is not absolute. This is explicitly reflected in the new text of Article 37a (5) and (6) of the Criminal Code, and can also be read in the recent article of Aart Hendriks in the Dutch Journal of Medicine. This non-absolute version applies in particular to the non-treatment physician. In response to what has just been said, by Mrs Wezel, among others, I think that we should bear in mind that the profession of care in order not to be able to say anything about medical professional secrecy in society often encounters incomprehension. So it is not the case that telling what is or might be going on would create uncertainty and undermine medical professional secrecy. Very often, however, it is the feeling that this is a screen that is being raised so as not to show one's own failure or lack of aid. On several fronts, including at the expert meeting, there was a call for more joint training and further training to be organised for the benefit of local government, the police, the judiciary and the care sector with regard to the implementation of the Forensic Care Act. Punishment and treatment, public security and personal freedom take on changing connections in the context of forensic care at varying times. Has, or is it going to be foreseen, a programme to improve cooperation between the various forensic care stakeholders? Are there any means available in the implementation of the law to promote this, not only as is already the case for the prosecutors, but also for the other disciplines involved? This is all the more important because all parties point out that a proper implementation of the law as a whole really requires ample time, more than the months remaining this year. Precisely because it is justiable, misses in the offer and delivery of care create a risk rather than a learning effect. Last week, the "tbs lawyers," as they call themselves, got mixed into the discussion about the phenomenon of the "rendering observer." Their position confirms the view that, in the absence of information on the psychic status of the judge, there is hesitation with regard to the imposition of a judicial authorisation or TBs. The observers know that too, and they see a refusal as beneficial to them. Whether that's right or not is outside the discussion. Can the rulers responsible at least remove the misunderstanding that this would be beneficial from the observers and the judges with an explicit reference to the new version of Article 37a of the Code of Criminal Law? If that is the case, would the last sentence of Article 37a (4) not have to be amended in such a way that the court may, without the cooperation of the person concerned, also use "another opinion or report', which does not have to be based solely on the current situation or behaviour of the person concerned, as the letter of the text seems to suggest? We would like to hear the Ministers' position on an appropriate approach to the issue of refusal, also in the light of this proposal from the TBs lawyers. I also hope that Minister Dekker will be able to respond to the alternative procedure in the case of a refusal of an observer proposed by the Chair of the Personal Data Authority in his letter of 11 January 2018 and also put forward by some colleagues as a possible interesting alternative. Mr. Chairman. The three legislative proposals we are discussing today have become more and more intertwined. That is why we are only now discussing them jointly. At the same time, they clearly relate to their nature, size, living situation and stage of life, to a large extent to very different patient categories. The proposed regime also recognises this to the extent to which the emphasis has been placed on safety or more on care, and more on "serious disadvantage" that the patient does to himself or to others and on the protection of fundamental rights than on his or her position as justitiable. They are differences of emphasis in matters which, in a rule of law, are regarded as fundamental values, but which can in practice come into conflict with each other. This, of course, leads to the need for procedures that focus on careful decision-making, accountability and the possibility of appealing and appealing. Certainly from the care, but also from the public administration, from the police and from the judiciary, there is an increasing number of complaints that the actual task is likely to be overgrown by administration, registration and communication. In the issue of the Dutch Magazine for Medicine published last week, it is stated that the measured administrative workload of psychiatrists working in a ggz institution has risen to about 40% of the working time, including the hours of writing it down. The control pressure specifically in preparation for a forced admission is estimated by psychiatrists, if requested by me, at an average of two full-time working days. "The broom through!', is the head of the main article in the NTvG as a result of the quote I just quoted. My group hopes to hear from the ministers that the forthcoming AMMs will exercise extreme restraint in the further regulation and would also like to hear that the review of the new laws will pay particular attention to reducing administrative workload. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Schnabel. I now give the floor to Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman. She's making her maiden speech. That's why I'll ring the bell so everyone knows there's going to be a maiden speech. Mrs. De Bruijn, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, would like to wish the three new rulers every success. It is the first active debate in this Chamber both for them and for me. I don't know about you, but this particular, historic place still makes a very special impression on me. It would silence you if it were not for what brings us together today to call for a wide-ranging debate. After a very long run we finally deal with the three coherent legislative proposals for the Health and Force Act psychogeriatric and intellectually handicapped clients, by me now called the Wzd, the Law mandatory mental health care and the Law forensic care. These three legislative proposals together constitute the legal framework for forced care. The principle is that neither healthcare providers nor public authorities can oblige citizens to undergo certain forms of care. The reality, however, is that there may be very urgent reasons why this concern can provide a solution, even if it is against one's will. As a young nurse in training, for the first time in my life I came into contact with a severely dementia patient. This has made such an impression on me that I still remember this situation now, 45 years later. This lady didn't speak anymore. She couldn't express her will anymore and was also unclear whether she understood anything of what was said to her. She was no longer able to carry out even the simplest actions independently. This meant that she was completely dependent on care and guidance. In doing so, she regularly resisted offering food or drink, against getting out of bed, against toilet help, against combing the hair and so on. Ma'am was entrusted to my care. It was a particular challenge to find access to her world and to learn to read her behavioral expressions as it were. My patient only seemed comfortable when she sat at the table, sitting entirely in her own world, stuck some sort of imaginary stamps. She made the forced gesture all day like she was doing that. I remember that only in that circumstance was she also accessible to eat and drink. I don't remember her name after all these years, but the stamp lady, as I called her affectionately, is just an example of what healthcare professionals have to deal with in everyday practice. Madam President. In our liberal society, it is hard to go against someone's will. Respect for individual rights and human dignity are essential. However, there is a world between respecting resistance and leaving someone to someone's fate. When, in a situation as I have just described, voluntary care no longer provides a solution, it is the legislator's job to provide a legal framework in which the care provider is not embarrassed by law and the legal protection of clients is guaranteed. It is up to this Chamber to assess the legality, enforcement and feasibility of the legislative proposals before us, with particular reference to feasibility, to see whether the three laws are sufficiently compatible and whether the necessary harmonisation has taken place. I shall first give a general view of the three legislative proposals in general and then deal with them separately. I use the following order: Law care and coercion, Law compulsory mental health care and finally the Law forensic care. The members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats support the objectives of the legislative proposals. The legislative proposals strike a balance between the fundamental right to physical integrity for each individual and the duty of the government to protect and provide citizens with necessary care. In my group's view, the government is carefully balancing these dilemmas. It is clear that forced care is always an ultimatum remedium, should be carefully prepared, used as short as possible and should be regularly evaluated. When voluntary care no longer provides a solution, forced care as an ultimum remedium should only be applied in situations where a mental disorder leads to such behaviour as to cause a serious disadvantage to the client or his environment. The application of forced and involuntary care is also accompanied by all kinds of judicial safeguards. In the law mandatory ggz is that the issue of a judicial care authorisation in advance and in the law care and coercion is the mandatory inclusion of involuntary care in the care plan, with the possibility of judicial review afterwards. Also in the Wzd involuntary admission requires a prior judicial authorisation. In my group's opinion, these principles and safeguards are compatible with the European Convention on Human Rights and with the requirements of the case law of the European Court of Justice. However, we also know the explanation given by the UN Committee on the Rights of People with Disabilities in Articles 14 and 15 of the UN Convention. That interpretation is such that the UN Committee considers that forced care is in no way justified. Can the directors state again why this interpretation is not followed in the legislative proposals before us? Then I'll come to the Law of care and coercion. The bill was submitted to the House of Representatives in 2009, as has already been recalled today, after which no less than seven notes of amendment were published. In particular, as a result of the second letter of amendment to the compulsory ggz Act, the Wzd has subsequently been substantially amended. A third and a fourth letter of amendment followed. Fortunately, an official note dated 2 June last was very helpful in obtaining any overview. For that, I would like to thank the official organisation. This is without prejudice to the fact that my group understands the request from the field to receive a written explanatory statement. Not only has the overview been lost, but the many changes made to the original legislative proposal have also greatly increased the complexity of implementation practice. And if this is not the right thing to do in this sector, I ask the Minister. At the request of my group, the key concepts in the Wzd and the compulsory ggz Act have been aligned wherever possible. The complaint procedures have been harmonised and the connection in border traffic between the two laws has also been improved. However, the question is whether the harmonisation has not been carried out in such a way as to make the Wzd look like mandatory ggz and whether this is desirable in view of the different target groups. The criticism of the current BOPZ Act is that it does not correspond sufficiently to the care needs of people with intellectual disabilities or with a psycho-geriatric disorder. Contrary to the care targeted at the treatment of the mental disorder in the ggz, the Wzd focuses on care for clients who usually need care throughout their lives and about almost all aspects of their lives. These people often first receive care on a voluntary basis and it is almost inevitable for this target group that there are moments where involuntary care should be provided to prevent the client from seriously harming himself or others. I refer again to the case I have just mentioned. You can then make a slightly better picture of this. So these people are often unable to express their will. It is also not always clear whether someone is resisting. This leads to a different dynamic between client and aid worker. For this reason, the VVD Group supports the choice of procedures that best suit the target group and which lead to an efficient provision of care. In the Wzd this means that involuntary care should be included in the care plan by the caretaker, in consultation with other disciplines. This is in line with the already prescribed practice in the Long-Term Care Act. We therefore believe that a court procedure is not appropriate for this target group, with the exception of the possibility, in the extreme, of taking someone involuntarily. For demented elderly people and their families, the issuing of such a judicial authorisation is also a very emotional event. Despite the very careful approach taken by the judges, the elderly often experience this as a kind of punishment and as if they have done something wrong. However, the question is whether the Wzd still complies with the "effective care" principle after all the changes. The Christmas tree of what has now been called a "scaled multidisciplinary step-by-step plan" has continued to be rigged. The choice of a scaling multidisciplinary roadmap, as the situation becomes more complex and the duration of the involuntary care increases, stems from the recommendations of the 2012 Task Force complex care, but not all care situations are as complex as those on which the recommendations of the Task Force were based at the time. Madam President. Involuntary care is mentioned in the Wzd when the client or his representative does not agree and also when the client can no longer agree or oppose because of willlessness. We now read the law in such a way that in all cases where involuntary care is included in the care plan, external advice should be sought, in addition to the internal disciplinary consultation, involving a doctor in many forms of care. You will understand, I think, that my group will embrace the amendment announced by the Minister in his letter of 19 December last to increase the practical workability of the Roadmap when it actually leads to less bureaucratic decision-making processes. We agree with the proposed line of restricting the consultation of an external expert, for example to situations where the evaluation of the care plan shows that it is not possible to reduce involuntary care within the legal deadline. We ask the Minister to be closely involved in the preparation of the amendment ActiZ and the Association of Disabled People in the Netherlands and to check with them whether the proposed approach is feasible and fits within the policy aimed at reducing rules and regulatory pressure. Then I come to another point. In the explanatory memorandum, the fact that someone has an increased risk of falling is expressly excluded from the serious disadvantage criterion. Measures to prevent falls, such as a seat blade, can therefore never be used involuntarily, not even with the consent of the representative. During my contacts with the field, it appears that this is a hard-to-understand story both for the people working in the care sector and for family members. This is of course not strange, as it is known that in 2015, for example, 3,267 elderly people over 65 years of age died of the consequences of a fall. Then, according to the Minister, as a health care provider, how do you consider the criterion to be a serious disadvantage? I'm making a comparison. The number of suicides was 1.871 in the same year. So that's just over half of it. Should it not also be possible to apply the "no' principle in the event of an increased risk of fall? Now, by definition, it is 'no' if we want to take preventive measures. In addition, the death after a fall is considered a non-natural death. If a person dies in a care relationship after a fall, it doesn't matter whether that happens in an institution or at home, a police investigation will follow in which the persons concerned are heard. Moreover, the chances of this happening and happening are increasing because prevention measures can no longer be taken without the consent of the client, and thus incompetent patients. I don't think it's realistic to mentor clients one-on-one 24 hours a day. Such a police investigation has a huge impact on both the family and the caregivers. A care manager of an institution that is working very actively on the cultural change to deal consciously with freedom-limiting measures that is cultural change has already been recalled a few times today..... recently told me that after such a police investigation the chairs that had just been banned were again widely deployed within that institution. The former Secretary of State mentioned a necessary cultural change in which aid workers had to resist their reflexes in order to protect others against their will against risks. But is such a change of culture not necessary in the whole width? If we accept the risk that, in care relationships, older people who are no longer able to agree to measures will fall and die from them, should we not find a cultural change in how we, as a society, deal with them? A police investigation in connection with a non-natural death doesn't help. This does not mean respecting the client's right to self-determination and physical integrity, but rather mistrust towards caregivers. At least this is how carers and family members experience it. I would like to hear the Minister's position on this. Finally, I go into the block about the Wzd on the Wzd doctor. During the treatment in the Lower House, this doctor was added to the Wzd by Mrs Leijten's amendment. Mr. Don mentioned that, too. For the time being, disability care seems to be the main obstacle, as many freedom-limiting measures are used on the basis of behavioural considerations and not on medical grounds. If a doctor has to take the final responsibility, this is not in line with current practice. Here too, the Minister proposes to adapt the Wzd, in the sense that the function of the Wzd doctor can also be exercised by an EZ psychologist or an academicly trained orthopedagogue. We think this is a good proposal in itself, but we also ask the Minister to pay particular attention to the added value of the Wzd doctor in the review of the law. To what extent does this additional link in the decision-making process contribute to the quality and efficiency of care? Spokesmen for me have already indicated how the complexity of the Wzd doctor relates to several articles in the Wzd. I would like to take this into account in the evaluation. I now come to the mandatory ggz Act. In addition to strengthening the legal status of persons against whom care is provided, the legislative proposal for the mandatory ggz aims to prevent coercion and limit the duration of coercion. Reduction of compulsion is also made possible by the use of lighter forms of compulsory care. The aim is, in turn, to be able to intervene at an earlier stage in order to prevent a client's mental health from getting worse in such a way that compulsory inclusion or a crisis measure becomes necessary. These objectives can count on the support of the VVD Group. However, the VVD Group regrets that the safeguards for the application of mandatory care in home situations are not directly included in the law and that we have to wait for the AMvBs, which, by the way, are subject to a pending procedure. As a result, we now have insufficient insight into the feasibility of the outpatient treatment options. This is one of the key elements of this law. By letter dated 26 March 2008, the Minister promised additional due diligence when applying mandatory care in home situations. For example, it is indicated that a health care professional should monitor measures restricting freedom. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State what possibilities he sees for compulsory care in the home situation. Is the Secretary of State not concerned that due to the lack of sufficient professional supervision it is necessary to decide on forced care? Reduction of compulsion is, as has been said, an important objective of the Law mandatory ggz. We also want to prevent a person from entering the area of criminal law or public order unnecessarily as a result of mental illness. The quality and organisation of mental health care are not in itself part of the compulsory ggz Act, but cannot be completely separated from the scope of coercive measures. It is therefore appropriate to consider in this context the need for adequate provision of care, preferably in an outpatient environment, in its own familiar environment. Over the years, clinical ggz capacity has been steadily reduced, but the build-up of adequate outpatient care remains insufficient. It is good that there is now a Switch team for people with confused behavior that is committed to achieving sufficient local, comprehensive care offerings. An important part of this is the early alert and guidance to appropriate care and support. The municipalities have an important role to play here. We are getting signals that the municipalities do not feel equipped enough for this. For example, involving a client's environment in mandatory care often encounters privacy legislation. The municipality should also take into account, examine and reconnect reports concerning persons who may be required to receive mandatory mental health care. I ask the Secretary of State if there is any idea of what this means for the use of additional resources for the municipalities. Can the Secretary of State undertake to implement this section carefully with the municipalities? Then I come to the active role of the Public Prosecutor, which we have asked questions about before. In the meantime, the First Chamber received a copy of the letter of 6 July of the then Secretary of State for Security and Justice, which was addressed to the Second Chamber. In this letter, the Secretary of State informed the Chamber following the amended Bruins Slot/Dijkstra motion (32399, No. 86) on the same subject. The Secretary of State examines the findings of the investigation into the conditions to be met in order to fulfil the active role of management, as well as the progress of the Social Security Improvement Programme. The VVD Group is pleased to note that progress is being made on the recommendations of the Hoekstra Commission, including on supply chain information, file enrichment and the active role of the Public Prosecutor. Following the letter from the Secretary of State, my group has one more question. We understand that, in the case of a well-founded petition, accompanied by an enriched file, the need for the Public Prosecutor to present an oral explanation at the hearing is less evident. The compulsory ggz Act allows for consideration in each individual case as to whether the presence of the Public Prosecutor is necessary or not. The Secretary of State states that this consideration is up to the district attorney. However, the members of the VVD Group ask whether, precisely where a well-functioning chain is so important, the other chain partners should not also have a voice in the presence of the Public Prosecutor at the hearing. I would like to get a response, I think from the Minister for Legal Protection. Then there is a topic on which we have recently been reminded and which has a clear relationship with the legislative proposals that are before us today: the legal representation of unqualified adults in health care. More or less grown up with the WGBO, the Medical Treatment Agreement Act, I don't know better than that in care relationships a doctor determines whether someone is willing or not. This must then be based on a capacity of will until proven otherwise. Willingness is a task-specific concept in health legislation, linked to a particular type of decision at a given time. So it is already included in the Wzd and in the compulsory ggz Act. This does justice to one's ability to make decisions at certain moments and fronts. The doctor shall consider whether a person is able to come to a reasonable appreciation of his interests in this matter. If a patient is incompetent for a decision in this matter, the patient may appoint a representative himself, or the canton judge appoints a curator or mentor. The mentoring is a protection measure that has been explicitly introduced for health care activities and is regulated by the Civil Code. For example, it provides that the person concerned may no longer take decisions on treatment, guidance, care and nursing through the institution of the mentoring institution itself. He may only do so with the agreement of the curator or mentor. So even if the doctor considers that the person concerned can act in this situation, he should not act without the permission of the curator or the mentor. However, the mentor may authorise the person concerned to carry out legal acts himself. However, it is up to the mentor and not to the doctor to determine whether the person concerned is capable of a reasonable appreciation of his interests. I ask the directors: is there any inconsistency between the above-mentioned laws? Are the directors familiar with problems between caregiver and curator or mentor who find their basis in this apparent contradiction? The fact that this is a lengthy and complex legislative process is apparent when we are informed at the last minute about the failure of the not insignificant Article 13.4 which gives the Public Prosecutor special powers for the rapid detection of persons who have withdrawn from the implementation of the imposed care authorisation or crisis measure. It was just a quick search, Mr President, because in the original legislative proposal the article is numbered as Article 14.4. Such an omission could have been avoided by not only submitting amendments to the Chamber but also the final picture in the form of consolidated legislation. In that case it might have been noticed earlier that texts have disappeared. I ask the three new directors: was it not a huge search to understand the legislative proposals with all the changes? At least it was for me. I imagine it took you some time too. Then you may understand all the more why the Temporary Working Method Committee recommended that only consolidated legal texts should be dealt with in future. I'd be happy to consider this. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll join the Wet forensic care. Following the first-term treatment of the Forensic Care Act, we received a comprehensive written response from the then Secretary of State of V and J on 6 November 2014. As a result of the reply, I have a few more points to make. Among other things, I have questions about the much-discussed problem of non-observatories. In response to the VVD's first-term question on the level of security for individuals in regular mental health care institutions, the Secretary of State replied that there are undesirable differences between the indication in regular ggz and the indication in forensic care in the area of the required security for the group of patients with a care authorisation issued by the criminal court. The desired level of security must become an integral part of the judicial authorisation, regardless of whether it is prepared from the ggz or from the Netherlands Institute of Forensic Psychiatry and Psychology. In our input to the preliminary report, we have once again called for attention to be paid to this issue. We are now pleased to note that, following the questions of the VVD Group to prevent unsafe situations in Chapter 9 of the compulsory ggz Act, a number of powers have been included in relation to forensic patients in the regular ggz institutions. These powers relate to limiting the right to receive visits, freedom of movement and the use of means of communication. For the mirror image situation, a ggz patient placed in a tbs institution in relation to the required security level, Article 6.4, fifth paragraph, of the Law requires ggz to be included in the care authorisation that the management powers of the Principles Law are made available and made available. Furthermore, where possible, differences in legal status have been removed in order to avoid a problematic treatment/work situation within the institution, in response to the request for harmonisation of this Chamber. I do have a question about the implementation practice. Can the Minister indicate whether information on the level of security is now sufficiently taken into account in the indication by the ggz? I hear from institutions that all kinds of physical measures are being taken to provide a higher level of security, but this is mainly about the risk assessment by the ggz when applying for care authorisation. Does the Minister know if this has been improved by now? The same letter also addresses our question in connection with Article 3.3 of the Forensic Care Act, which grants powers to the Minister in relation to private care institutions, with a special designation as an institution for the care of TBs. The Secretary of State replied that this concerns a small group of institutions, probably six, and that these powers are necessary to enable the implementation of the TBS measure with public care in private institutions and to carry out public-law responsibilities regarding the safety of society. In my group's view, it is sufficiently substantiated that the powers of the Minister are limited to that part of the institution in which TBs have been placed, that they are about the ability to take management measures and that powers are not intended to intervene in the professional behaviour of healthcare professionals. Finally, Mr President, the amendment to Article 37a of the Code of Criminal Law concerning the non-observatories included in the draft law on forensic care. The aim of this scheme is to solve the problem that suspects of serious crimes refuse to cooperate in the investigation for the purpose of the pro Justitia report on the presence of a mental disorder. If suspects do not cooperate, it becomes very difficult for the NIFP to come up with an opinion. The defendant refusing to cooperate tries to avoid the imposition of a possible TBs measure. This is a very undesirable and dangerous situation, because it means that serious offenders do not receive the treatment they need, with all the risk of recurrence. Article 37a contains a legal breach of medical professional secrecy, and medical professional secrecy is of major importance. There is a need for extreme restraint in proposing their legal breakdown. However, medical confidentiality is not absolute. For example, as part of the investigation, there are already possibilities to obtain the seizure of medical records in very exceptional circumstances. It is now up to us to assess whether the intended breach of medical professional secrecy as an ultimate remedy for the situation in which the imposition of TBs is deemed necessary for security reasons is proportionate and sufficiently guaranteed. The non-observatories scheme applies only to suspects associated with very serious crimes for which an unmaximised TBs can be imposed. This concerns acts of violence within the meaning of Article 38e of the Code of Criminal Law. In particular, life crimes and serious sexual offences are covered. With regard to such offences, the European Court of Human Rights has also expressly considered that the State has a so-called positive obligation to take preventive measures to prevent this type of crime wherever possible. It is very important that suspects of this type of crime find out whether there is a mental disorder. Where this is the case, there may be a high risk of recurrence and the imposition of a TBS measure may be the most appropriate sanction. In this sense, we consider the measures to be proportionate in order to achieve this. With regard to the due diligence criteria regarding the breach of medical professional secrecy, the former Secretary of State stated that the obligation of confidentiality was established on the entire multidisciplinary committee that checks the usability of the personal data. Can the Minister provide additional information on how enforcement is organised? Does ordinary disciplinary law apply to this, for example? We also have another question. At present, the main rule is that behavioral reports at the time the hearing starts should not be older than one year. How does this principle relate to the period of validity of the data to be collected for the PJ reporting? Madam President...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u22	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mrs. Strik, this is a maiden speech. There's no need to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u24	Maybe she can go in second term, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group takes the view that we must do everything in our power to prevent the recurrence of crimes which are deeply affecting the life of the victim and his environment and affect the sense of social security. In order to gain a good understanding of the risk of recidivism, a palette of measures is needed. The involvement of existing medical data is one of these measures, the reduction of the average treatment time in the TBs another, and the possibility of extending the observation time again another. We realise that we will never achieve 100% safe situations, but we do ask if other measures are not needed. Recent reports in the press show that some judges do not decide on TBs and other judges without useful PJ reports. Does the Minister have any idea of what the judges consider necessary to arrive at a Tbs measure, and is it possible that judges will think differently about this? We also wonder whether additional measures are not possible and necessary, for example for the situation in which no file has been drawn up or when it has been destroyed at the request of the person concerned. Is it imaginable, for example, that this proposal has been brought forward more often today, so that if, following an irrevocable conviction during detention, it becomes apparent that someone is suffering from a mental disorder that is related to the crime committed, the judge can still decide on the basis of the findings to impose additional TBs? Is the Minister prepared to examine this and, if necessary, come forward with additional legislation? Should the correction of the penalty after an irrevocable conviction encounter problems, although we can see from the letter received last week from Mr Wolfsen that there may be solutions to this, provided that the measure is announced in good time during the trial, then we would like to make another suggestion, namely that of provisional TBs. If the defendant continues to refuse to undergo the investigation at the Pieter Baan Centre, the judge shall, in addition to punishment, impose a provisional TBs for an indefinite period until the sentenced person cooperates. Upon receipt of the Pieter Baan Centrum's finding, the judge will lift the provisional TBs and take a decision on whether or not to impose TBs. Mr President, that is my first term. We are, of course, looking forward with interest to the response of the govern ments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u25	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn. Will you stand still for a moment? Congratulations on your maiden speech. The legislative proposals in which you pronounce them are in conjunction with the hospital nurse, in which you have worked for more than 35 years; you have also indicated this in your speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. As a Groningse, you moved to Oss, North Brabant in the seventies of the last century, where you have so far lived. You have been trained as Nurse A at the Onze Lieve Vrouwe Gasthuis in Amsterdam and subsequently specialized in intensive care nursing. As an ic nurse, you went to work in your hometown of Oss in the Sint-Anna Hospital. You were also a staff member of the nursing department in the same hospital and lecturer/mentor at the intensive care programme. From 1986 to 1988 you worked as a recording coordinator, before you finally switched to the policy and administration side of the care. In various policy functions you continued to work in the Sint-Anna Hospital, even after the merger with the Sint-Joseph Hospital in Veghel. For example, between 1988 and 2009, you were a policy officer, fusion secretary, secretary of the board of directors, project manager new construction and policy advisor of the new hospital Bernhoven. You are currently working as an independent advisor in the field of innovation in the care and social and social domain. In the 1990s, your political career began. For example, from 1990 to 1997, you were a member of the municipal council in Oss and worked for several years as an employee of the VVD group in the Provincial States of North Brabant. In 2010 you again became a city council member in Oss, releasing your daughter Bianca as group chairman. A family business there in Oss, and not just about Mrs De Bruijn! In 2011, you became alderman. You stayed until 2015. Since March 2017, you have been a member of the Upper House. In addition to your work and your political career, you have always been socially active. Many of your activities have to do with your background in care and traffic. The latter comes from your period as alderman. In an interview, you said that Rosa Parks, the American civil rights activist, is your great example because she set something big in motion by doing something small. This approach, combined with your background, predicts an interesting further contribution to the work of this Chamber. We wish you every success in doing so. I shall suspend the debate and the sitting for a few minutes to give the honourable Members the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech, but only after I have done so first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u26	I'm reopening the meeting. The next item is the continuation of the first term on the part of the Chamber of Joint Treatment of Legislative Proposals 32399 (Law on Mental Health), 31996 (Law on Care and Force Psychogeriatric and Mental Disabled Clients), and 32398 (Law on Forensic Care). I give the floor to Mrs Barth. Where's Mrs. Barth? Oh, there's Mrs. Barth. It was like you were in the wings. I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u27	I was just getting some water, Mr. Chairman. Excuse me. Mr. Chairman. It is an honor and a pleasure to be able to make this contribution on behalf of the OSF. I, too, would like to welcome the leaders of VWS and Justice and Security to the Upper House. This is their first or second performance here, and they're going straight into the deep end. But I think the swimming degrees are fine. I look forward to a debate, hopefully, through and through. From this point on, our groups would also like to thank all those concerned in the previous cabinet for their efforts for these three laws. We did not and do not always agree with their proposals on this later, but they worked with passion and commitment to these laws without exception, until the first statement of response. Others have already mentioned it: in 1994, after more than twenty years of discussion, the Act entered into force on special admissions into psychiatric hospitals. This law replaced the 19th-century insanity law and law of weakness, and had to be a codification of the radically changed insights since the 1960s and 1970s on good care and rights of people with severe psychiatric disorders or intellectual disabilities. Not that the discussion after the adoption of the BOPZ Act became silent, quite the contrary. The second evaluation of the BOPZ Act of 2002 concluded that the law did not comply in practice, so fundamental that it could not be repaired with adaptation. I will come back to this later. The fact is that the laws that are before us today for final assessment here in the First Chamber have been discussed for more than fifteen years. Our groups have neither the illusion nor the wish that this discussion will end after the votes on the Law mandatory ggz, the Law care and coercion and the Law forensic care. We regard these laws as human rights laws, which deal with very important issues. When may you affect people who are caused by mental illness or mental impairments that can seriously harm themselves or others, for their own sake or out of the interest of others, in their self-determination or the integrity of their bodies, and force them to receive care or treatment? Under what conditions should fundamental rights and civil liberties of people with mental impairment or mental impairment be set aside, while they have done nothing wrong? And if they have done something wrong, caused by their illness or disability, how do we provide them with appropriate care, and society with the necessary security, and prevent it from happening again? There's an inherent tension in these questions, and that's good. The provision of forced care is by definition accompanied by dilemmas. For example, we do not see any black-and-white discrimination between human rights and forced care. Thousands of people per year show that the human dignity of their existence is served precisely by the application of forced care. Back to the years in which people from far too absolute views of self-determination were slackened and destitute, we do not want, as much as we desire back to the time when psychologically ill or intellectually limited people were standardly locked up or isolated from society. Seriously ill or limited people are also fellow human beings, with basically the same needs, rights and freedoms as everyone else. There is no final answer to the question of how their care needs are best balanced with civil rights. The views on this subject are subject to social change and new insights on the question of what good care is. And every situation in which this legislation is applied is unique, because it is always about an individual, a person with a unique mix of circumstances, limitations, predisposition and possibilities. In practice, there is also tension between the rights and freedoms of patients and clients and the safety of healthcare professionals. In some institutions, a daily balance has to be made between good employership and the requirements of the Arbowet, and the rights and needs of patients and clients. That's a heavy load. The best way to deal with this kind of complex dilemma is, according to our groups, to talk about it permanently. Standing debate keeps the questions sharp, and the answers that need to be given in practice on a case-by-case basis. Without such a conversation, we are by definition failing the people who are the direct object of these laws. The provision of forced care must never be a solidified procedure or the completion of a bureaucratic check-off list. The questions underneath are too fundamental for that. Today, however, the question lies with us whether the law on compulsory ggz, the law on care and compulsion and the law on forensic care will now form a solid and workable legal framework for the complex trade-offs that the care is faced with on a daily basis. Let me say first of all that we regard these laws largely as a visible step forward in relation to the BOPZ Act. The rights of patients and their families are better defined. Ambulant forced care is possible, so that forced withdrawal, which is often a traumatic experience, can be prevented more often. The laws encourage informed consideration of the need for forced care and its reduction as soon as possible. The coherence of these laws is also important for our group. The Senate has had a special responsibility for this since the adoption in 2004 of the Van de Beeten and Others motion, which called on the government to strengthen the coherence between forensic and regular care in order to prevent crime and recidivism. The laws before us today can be regarded as a direct consequence of that motion on parts. It has already been mentioned that the Wfz has already reached its first term here in 2014. But the treatment was stopped at the time to wait for the Wzd and the Wvggz, so that the three laws could be judged by us as a senate. We cannot come to a conclusion other than that this decision of our Chamber has had a beneficial effect on the connection between the three laws. Since then, around 2016, the government has undertaken to define many concepts by letter of amendment the same, and that has visibly improved the laws. Key concepts such as "care', "care provider', "care provider' and "accommodation', complaint procedures and compensation schemes, internal quality assurance, the further development of outpatient care in AMvBs: it is all harmonised. Moreover, both the Wzd and the Wvggz now have the same criterion of "serious disadvantage" to assess whether there can be any question of forced care at all. That is, of course, crucial for a good connection. It does raise a further question. The government has repeatedly indicated that replacing the concept of "danger" in the BOPZ Act as grounds for forced care by "serious disadvantage" in the new laws does not mean any material change and is in line with case law. On the contrary, we are inclined to think that the step from 'danger' to'serious disadvantage' is a good substantive step, which is better suited to what people need to care in practice. Can the Secretary of State explain this and explain how this has developed in case law in such a way that it now amounts to the same material? Also the way the motion-Van de Beeten c.s. concretely completed with the connection between regular and forensic care, can count on our support. There has also been the necessary discussion in this House, in particular in writing, on Article 2.3 of the Wfz, which provides that the criminal court may impose an authorisation for forced care in accordance with the criteria of the Wvggz and the Wzd. We welcome the Government's response in the response. We also consider this provision to be an enrichment of the instruments available to the criminal court. It offers the possibility of delivering customised work, even during or after detention. Provided that it is properly and carefully applied, this provision can prevent misery for society and for the person concerned themselves. It exudes what these laws should radiate in our opinion, namely that society does not let go of those who need care: we stay with you and provide tailored care, in order to prevent yourself, whether or not again, from slipping and causing serious harm to yourself or to other people. That this provision is no longer in the Code of Criminal Law, but in the Wfz we find, in principle, with the government the only right choice, and is precisely what the Van de Beeten motion asked for at the time. It was the previous rulers who wrote that in the reply. We would like to give the new rulers the room to confirm this. Do they, too, strongly support this provision? And, in their view, is all the conditions for the provision to succeed in practice? Will judges be sufficiently equipped to actually apply Article 2.3 Wfz? Have all the problems in the connection between forensic care and the Health Insurance Act been resolved? I have the impression not, but I'd like to give the government a chance to explain. Are there sufficient treatment places available to provide people with a suitable place under Article 2.3 Wfz? AEF's report didn't say so this spring. Has the situation improved? Legally, by letter of amendment, the Wzd is better connected to this article in the Wfz, but is disability care also sufficient as a sector in view? We miss the VGN at various consultation tables. It is estimated that more than half of the prisoners have intellectual disabilities, so there is much profit to be made there. Does the government share that? And is the parole also sufficiently connected? Mr. Chairman. So far, therefore, the assessment of the coherence between the three laws by our political groups is positive. But we stayed with one big question, namely whether it was a right choice to split the BOPZ Act into the Wvggz and the Wzd. This means, in particular, external legal protection when and how can a person be brought into compulsory care? It is also important to ensure that there is no discrimination between people in ggz on the one hand and care for the elderly on the other. We wonder whether this is desirable and sustainable. This issue has already been discussed in the written exchange of views and we are not yet convinced by the Government's response. In short, I would like to be corrected if I go too short, in other words, that answer is that, according to the government, the external legal protection in Wzd and Wvggz does indeed differ formally, but that material amounts to the same. For example, in both laws, forced care can only be applied as an ultimatum remedium, if it is proportional and subsidiary and if it is phased out as soon as possible. Although forced care in the Wvggz must always and in every form be subject to prior judicial review and the Wzd knows, except in the case of forced admission, a step-by-step plan with only ex post judicial review, but these different forms of legal protection are not inferior to each other, the government still argues. They are also justified, because they result from differences in target groups. Mandatory care in the ggz is aimed at recovery and healing and usually short-lived, where psychogeriatric forced care and forced care for people with intellectual disabilities is usually offered life-wide and, from a given point of view, life-long. A court ruling prior to any application and/or adaptation of forced care in disability and elderly care would therefore be too burdensome, both for clients and their relatives and for the judiciary. Moreover, in the latter two sectors, according to the government, people are generally incompetent, where people in the ggz tend to be able to express their opposition to care. Finally, the Government refers to the second evaluation of the BOPZ Act, which would already indicate that one law with a single scheme for everyone does not fit in with the care of people with dementia and severe intellectual impairment. We recognise the difference in character mentioned by the government between the care, whether forced or not, in ggz, care for the elderly and care for the elderly. But in our view the most fundamental improvement of Wvggz and Wzd compared to the BOPZ Act is that forced care will no longer have to be limited to forced admission, so that customization can be offered per patient and client and stepped care is possible. This makes that distinction in the nature of care between those sectors smaller rather than larger. We do not want to clean up those differences. They are there and they are real................................................................................................................................................................................................... What does the government think of that thought? The division of the BOPZ Act also makes it possible for a doctor, not the legislator, to determine which regime of external legal protection a person will be subject to. This is a situation which, to put it mildly, we do not consider optimal when it comes to human rights. The least willing people are the most difficult to express resistance. And without resistance, there is no forced care at all. They are therefore the most vulnerable to a situation in which carers argue against resistance in order to maintain that the actually forced care they apply is voluntary. We consider it undesirable for those same caregivers to decide whether or not their choices for a client should be reviewed in advance by an independent judge. It carries the risk of arbitrariness and of "thinking for people." In any case, we do not want to detract from the good intentions with which this is undoubtedly happening, but it may mean that unfair or excessive care is being applied. We ask the government whether the inspection of forced care under the Wzd will pay particular attention to this risk. The government's supposed distinction between Wzd and Wvggz in willpower also, in our opinion, does not do enough justice to the fluent flow of the capacity to express resistance to people in vg-care and psychogeriatric care. In one situation, someone with learning difficulties can make it clear what he does not want and not in the other. In a person with dementia, that can even be different at a moment's notice. Building two distinct laws with different external legal protection regimes on a basis that is mobile and situational in individual people is like building a house on quicksand. And it is once again the health care provider, not the legislator, who in practice has to turn it into solid ground. Finally, two laws with different regimes can cause the most vulnerable people to fall between shore and ship or not to receive appropriate care. We are very concerned about that. People with intellectual disabilities and psychiatric illness need complex, integral care. They have not been helped by two laws which emphasise the distinction between sectors. What is the risk that, for example, severely addicted people with intellectual disabilities and/or any other mental disorder will be sent from the locker to the wall? It's been going on for years in our country, and unfortunately it's still happening. Would the government like to address all these concerns about breaking up Wzd and Wvggz? I hope I have been able to clarify how deep these are, but we are fully prepared to be persuaded. Mr. Chairman. That requires the government to come up with stronger arguments than in the response. For example, she stated that the choice of two laws for different sectors is the result of the second evaluation of the BOPZ Act. Looking for reasons to remove our concerns, we took them up ourselves, because I was curious about the argumentation. And what does it turn out to be? The second evaluation does not call for different laws for different sectors, but for specific legislation, whether or not within a single law, for people who do not show a willingness to take care but who do not object, the so-called gbbb group; an ugly care discount. According to the second evaluation, these people are overlooked in the BOPZ Act, but the evaluation also emphasizes that the gbgb group can also be found in the long term ggz, where not everyone is willing enough to express resistance explicitly. Somewhere this nuance of the second evaluation has been lost since 2002. We regret that this has happened. We would have had better legislation today if it had been held. What will not convince us in this debate is a lack of capacity in the Public Prosecutor's Office and in the judiciary to also be able to assess and test out out outpatient forced care in the context of the Wzd. We are certainly sensitive to the argument that not every step-by-step plan or every scaling-up of forced care according to the Wzd can or should pass the judge. But the fact that the judge never gets involved until there is a forced admission is the other extreme. Surely, at least once, there could and should be a principled, independent legal judgement as to whether there should be an issue of outpatient forced care or forced treatment in a person? If there is not enough capacity in the State and the judiciary for this, then it must be made. These are political choices, I admit, but these are human rights safeguards, which, in the view of the Labour and OSF groups, deserve priority. To conclude this point, the Government also states in the reply that it does not wish to distinguish between heavy and light forced care in the context of WZD, since the degree of experience of compulsoryity is subjective and individual. That sounds nice and it's definitely true. But for the legislator it is inconsistent and just too easy. For the government apparently finds forced admission, even in the Wzd, to go so far as to require prior judicial review. Why then, for example, is not forced medication, fixation or isolation also brought under prior review by the judge? These are interventions that, like forced admission, affect a person's ability to resist, and that seems to us to be a very workable criterion for determining whether there is severe forced care or not. How does the Minister feel about that? And does he agree with us that the legislator should certainly have a view on what heavy and light forced care is? Let us be clear: our group has not yet decided whether the distinction in external legal status between the compulsory ggz and Wzd Act is desirable and workable and we doubt whether the choices in the Wzd are the right ones. At the same time, as has been said, we believe that the Wzd is a visible and significant step forward in relation to the current law. But he's not what he could have been. In an ideal world, we believe that there is a single legal framework for forced care, which includes forced care in the somatics and the coherent discussions on willlessness, as well as the criteria laid down in the Law of Principles. Does the government share that vision of the future? Is she prepared to carry out a study on this? Perhaps the rulers will now think: then we will all be back here in fifteen years' time. However, we believe that this fits perfectly with the ongoing debate we want on care and coercion. As far as the present Wzd is concerned, we are not yet clear on how our final judgment will fall. But again, we like to be convinced. So I would very much like to have a thoughtful reaction from the rulers who provide us, the groups of the Labour Party and OSF, with new insights. Which brings me to the Forensic Care Act. The procurement of forensic care by the JenV Ministry and all its predecessors in the names "forensic care" that is regulated herein, has been going on for almost ten years now. In practice, the government points out, in particular, the organisation of continuity of care is not yet as desired. A policy programme with social partners should improve. This was one of the places where we missed involvement of the VGN. Can we see that right? If so, why aren't they at the table? In 2014, our colleague Jannette Beuving already indicated that we can support the Wfz for the most part. But a number of issues have remained; they are hard on our stomachs. They have already been mentioned by colleagues today. First, it concerns the powers conferred on the Minister of JenV by the Wfz to intervene unilaterally in private law institutions carrying out a public service mission in the implementation of TBs. That minister can even intervene directly, ignoring the board of directors. That's a long way to go. These are private-law institutions which are not hierarchically subordinate to the Minister; in our view, the government must respect an appropriate distance. If the government plays the purchasing role, it is not appropriate for the same government to intervene unilaterally if it does not like the outcome of negotiations. To give just one concrete example: it may happen that the Minister, because he has to cut costs, sets the rates for forensic care too low. Institutions cannot circumvent this, because they are dealing with only one buyer. If these too low rates reduce the quality of care, the same minister who bought under the cost price can move the board of directors aside. That is not a fair situation with equal negotiating partners. As far as we are concerned, the Minister should have chosen: either he will continue to regulate the implementation of forensic care administratively, with all the consequences for the connection to regular care, but with the appropriate powers to intervene; or he will organise the quality and development of care he desires by buying in properly and purposefully. Why has the government not used all these letters of amendment in recent years to make a choice? We are all the more concerned about this because the government has indicated to our written questions that it has not encountered a single situation in which it urgently needed these powers in the last ten years. The Minister always came out in consultation with institutions. And that is the way it should be, as we are asking the Minister today. The second point that we have unabated difficulty with at the Wfz concerns the possibility of setting aside the medical confidentiality of non-observatories. A radical measure, of which we wonder whether it is unnecessary and counterproductive. Isn't it true that judges can impose on them without Pro Justitia reporting? Isn't there a bill coming that doubles the observation time at the Pieter Baan Center? And hasn't the average length of stay in the TBs fallen visibly? This is an important fact, because the ever-increasing length of residence in the TBs up to a few years ago threatened to affect the legitimacy of the whole system. In the reply, the government still speaks of "other measures" to promote the cooperation of suspects. Which one does the government mean? We have received it as solidly as creative advice from Mr Wolfsen from the Personal Data Authority. Does the Minister not think that this is a good proposal and a workable alternative to the plan that is now under way? Will all this not provide sufficient relief, so that the draconian measure of breaking up medical professional secrecy is not necessary? In our view, it balances on the brink of the rule of law that no one has to contribute to their own condemnation. Unlike the government, we see risks of counterproductive effects: the risk that people will avoid care before they commit a crime because of the risk that the requested treatment will ever turn against them. The government doesn't see that happening, because I'm putting it back together again, and people aren't that calculated. Unfortunately, we can think of examples where that would be the case. I would like to mention, for example, pedosexuals, who often have an understanding of illness, or people with a sociopathic or narcissistic personality disorder who are encouraged by their environment to seek help. Isn't it always better, for example, to ask the government to make maximum efforts to prevent crimes rather than to obtain a desired conviction more easily after the fact? Then why isn't this so controversial part of the Forensic Care Act not abandoned?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u28	It's quiet today at the Interrupt Microphone, but I'm just putting another one in. I have just spoken about the report by the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings. It indicates possibilities of limiting the recurrence by using the actuarial method. Have you looked at it? You just mentioned the sex offenders in particular. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u29	I understand that the rapporteur has made an appeal to consider not only whether the disorder has been adequately treated and reduced in the end of forensic care, but also to include a risk assessment. If I'm right, I'm so good at putting it together. I think it is very wise to take that risk assessment with you at the time when the possibility of ending forensic care is being considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u30	That is good, but the report says: look at the statistical data above all. I am perhaps simplifying a little bit now, and the facts, and draw the conclusion about the repetition. Leave the treatment circuit out of that for now. Then you come to a much more scientifically substantiated judgment about the recidivism. I will, of course, ask the rulers to do the same later, but it would be nice if you were to support it. Then we can bring down the recidivism, without the defendant having to cooperate. We may be able to park the whole discussion about those refusing observers. This was about sex offenders, I'd like to make that specification. Then we can simply come to a much more purer risk of recidivism. Then it is up to us to do what we do with it, but I would also like to hear from colleagues whether they support it and then to put that question to the government behind me. It'd be nice if you'd back that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u31	I think it would be excellent to put this question to the rulers. I am pleased to hear that Mr Dercksen would also be prepared to park the procedure in medical professional secrecy, as he has just indicated, if there is a workable alternative. For it seems to me to be too far-reaching a measure, which, with the whole list we have just given, and possibly this point, is not necessary in our opinion. Mr. Chairman. We have been concerned about whether the Law on compulsory ggz, with the choices made in connection with the Hoekstra report, would not be drawn too much into the sphere of criminal law. We are therefore pleased that the Lower House has amended the observation measure in the law. Our other comments have largely been taken away by the government's excellent written answers. And a legal test by the district attorney of whether forced care is used on the right grounds and manner can certainly have added value in our view. However, we have great concerns about the mandatory ggz Act as to whether this bill can and will be properly implemented in practice. I would like to mention a few points. The government sees added value in the re-launched questioner role of the Public Prosecutor's Office for the enrichment of files when applying for forced care with judicial information. The Wvggz provides a legal regime to exchange information about people between healthcare provider, police and justice. We are not against this in principle, because it can help to make a good assessment of someone's situation. And it is a step forward if it is done on the basis of sound legal conditions. However, it is worrying that, according to the report "Shared Information" of the pg at the Supreme Court, after the publication of the Hoekstra report on the exchange of information, his booklet has gone well beyond its scope. I quote: 'This has not led to the necessary care being taken in the manner in which the prosecution has carried out the provision of criminal data in the pilot.' That is why we are asking the Minister today: has he not been too "gung ho" in sharing information on the Hoekstra report? And above all: how does he intend to deal with the provisions of the mandatory ggz Act which do give this information sharing a proper legal basis? Does he intend, for example, to shorten the implementation period of the Wwggz on this part, or perhaps even to bring the law directly into line with this point? If so, is that possible without preparation? If not, how will he solve this legal gap until the mandatory ggz Act enters into force? Another concern in the practice of the ggz is that the application of coercion has increased numerically in recent years. This also applies to separation and fixation, while the sector has such explicit ambitions to eliminate such practices. A fair assessment of the figures does require a percentage development. Can the rulers deliver it to us? How do they intend to contribute to strengthening and accelerating the reduction of compulsion and urge in the ggz? Do they consider this to be an indispensable precondition for the successful feasibility and enforcement of the Wvggz? How's the inspection gonna monitor that? In order to make the law a success, adequate appropriate treatment sites in the ggz should be available. But the government is shocked in the response that the reduction of beds in the ggz is going faster than the build-up of outpatient care. This is a very worrying and risky development, especially if the under-utilisation of EUR 288 million is taken into account. This makes this slowness in the construction of outpatient care unnecessary and careless. The previous minister tried to do something about this by agreeing to remove waiting lists, but that does not convince us enough. This under-utilisation is simply unacceptable, and the build-up of outpatient care should go faster than the winding-down of beds, to prevent vulnerable people from getting between shore and ship and to monitor the social acceptance of outpatientisation of care. Can the Secretary of State tell us how, six months after reaching agreements with the field, the situation is now? How does he respond to the LHV's signal that general practitioners are at risk of becoming overburdened with complex patients due to a lack of outpatient second-line care? Is he willing to take his system responsibility and watch over an accelerated build-up of outpatient teams in the ggz? And, so I ask the Minister of JenV, is he willing to do so in the construction of forensic FACT teams? The ambition has been leaked out of that, so we hear from the field. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Surely we can assume that all three of these rulers will continue as fully as possible the ambition of the previous cabinet to provide care for people with mental illness or mental impairment? Are they prepared to create the conditions for this? The basis for the outpatientisation of care is a sine qua non for the success of the Wvggz and the Wzd, and for the modernisation of mental health care, care for people with intellectual disabilities and psychogeriatric care. People with disabilities or mental illness are healthier and happier when they can participate in society, and give meaning to their lives as any human being would like. Indeterminate is, in addition to being provided with adequate care and guidance, that prejudices about mental and intellectual disabilities reduce. The previous cabinet paid a lot of attention to this. We would like to hear from the new rulers whether they will. Combating prejudice is also a matter of management by speech. And will, for example, the financial support of the foundation Together Strong Without Stigma continue? Mr. Chairman. We are concerned about the acceptance of outpatient care by the national police. We share Mr Akerboom's critical questions about the remaining build-up of outpatient care; that may be clear. But the government is right to say that the police have a job here as well. Neighborhood agents, for example, play an important role in early warning. This requires an appropriate focus on care needs and not just on dealing with nuisances. Is that focus sufficient for the national police? Can the Secretary of State state state what is happening with the development of the transport of people in crisis or otherwise in need of care, now that the police are phasing this out? Speakings such as those of the Rotterdam police chief Paauw do not reassure us that the support of the police is sufficient. Seriously caring people were put away in one breath with terrorists. What does the Minister of J and V and the Secretary of State think about that? In our view, an important step in countering stigmatisation by the police would be to adapt and nuance the so-called E33 code, which is used to record, register and nuance so-called 'people with confused behaviour'. This one puts everyone in one hope: the lady with early dementia, who is desperate in the supermarket because she has forgotten what she came to do; the British tourist who has immersed herself too enthusiastically in the freedoms of our capital; the patient who upsets under the influence of paranoid delusions. That's not effective, and it puts too many people away as dangerous when they're not. Moreover, the term "confused behavior" is far too subjective. What one considers to be exemplary for confused behavior, the other is fine with it. For example, look at the tweets of the President of the United States. Why not have a more objective and especially nuanced registration code? Surely that would also strengthen the effectiveness of policies, because they would no longer be shot with hail? Finally: confused behavior is, in our opinion, often related to the use of or addiction to drugs and alcohol. Therefore, there is every reason to continue to make full use of prevention. I could say a great deal about this today, but I would just like to say one thing: the advance of opium addiction by prescribing oxycodone by doctors. In the USA, this has resulted in an explosive increase in the number of heroin addicts and deaths over the last ten years, and that is also what is threatening to happen in our country. Does the Secretary of State see a job for himself to prevent that? Mr. Chairman. Can the rulers indicate what plans this cabinet has with the legal status surrounding forced care of minors? The documents mention a possible separate law for forced care for children and young people. The subject deserves due attention, because in practice forced care is often given under the umbrella of pedagogical-eductic motives and then not registered as such, let alone through legal requirements. But a separate law for young people and children does not seem desirable, because of the importance of continuous and comprehensive care. Do the rulers agree with us? Mr President, I am slowly but surely coming to a conclusion. At the beginning of my speech, I indicated that permanent debate on the desirability of forced care and the conditions under which it may be offered is important to ensure the quality of care. We have read that the rulers want to evaluate the law after two years. That seems to us very quickly, given what these laws require from the care and on the basis of the experience with the BOPZ Act. That is why we ask whether the directors are prepared to review these laws every five years after the first evaluation, so that new insights about good care and practical experience can be given a good place, and the debate on good forced care continues. And, of course, we would also like to join the questions that colleagues have already asked about the implementation of the laws. How much time and resources does the government allocate to this? Mr. Chairman. For the groups of the Labour Party and the OSF, the key question today is whether the balance between the need for forced care for a dignified existence, and the guarantee of human rights and civil liberties appropriate to it, is sufficiently present with these three laws. At the Wfz and the Wzd we haven't quite figured that out yet. We are therefore looking forward to the government's response with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mrs Barth. I give the floor to Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u33	Madam President. I, too, would like to welcome the rulers to this debate from this place. But I would also like to make a comment to Mrs Reina de Bruijn. I have a bit of a cold, as you should. Reina, you have given a very clear analysis and a very excellent but also very sensitive contribution. And, of course, I do all that through the President, who agrees with that, because that is what she has said. Madam President, thank you very much for letting me say this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u34	Mr President, I am just thinking of the shame on my jaws that I forgot to congratulate Mrs De Bruijn from the cathedral on her maiden speech. I would like to make that up to you. I had it written down in my text!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u35	It's noted, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u36	Madam President. The reason for the legislation we are discussing today was a motion by our former colleague Rob van de Beeten (EK 28979, E) in this Chamber in 2004. I just saw him in the public gallery. Madam President, I shall return to this motion. It was considered that detention of addicts with mental problems, psychiatric patients and mentally disabled is increasingly a problem in the prison system and that, moreover, a penitentiary regime for the majority of these prisoners is unsuitable for the necessary treatment and rehabilitation. Consideration should also be given to the fact that cooperation and coordination between health care institutions, assistance, justice, employment services aimed at these groups of prisoners was at that time which was not yet abolished and there were serious gaps in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u37	Madam President, I'm sorry to interrupt, but the Registry system is failing, and I don't know what that means, but I'm just saying. 'Cause Mr. stenographer can't respond himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u38	Do you mean the Registry system or are you referring to the word processing system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u39	The word processing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u40	It's not called Stenographic Service anymore. It's called Service Report and Editorial Service.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u41	Here on the spot, the system of the Service Report and Editorial will fail. I don't know what that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u42	Then we'll suspend for a while to reboot it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u43	May I ask Members to take their seats again? We will continue with Mrs Oomen and I kindly ask her to do her contribution again. I think that the first piece with the welcome to the rulers and the compliments to Mrs De Bruijn is still on record, but you will start again with your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u44	We'd like to hear it again!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u45	Okay, just for the gentlemen. I'm gonna wave, is that okay? Go ahead, Mrs. Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u46	Mr. Chairman. I was in the process of explaining the motion in part No. EK 28.979, letter E, by Rob van de Beeten, who is present here. It was then considered that the detention of addicts with mental problems, psychiatric patients and mentally disabled is increasingly a problem in the prison system and that a penitentiary regime for the majority of these prisoners is unsuitable for the necessary treatment and rehabilitation. It was also considered that for this group of prisoners targeted cooperation and coordination between care institutions, assistance, justice, employment services which were still there, I have just said that there are serious gaps between municipalities and municipalities. The Inter-departmental Working Group-Houtman and the very interesting and very readingable parliamentary research (the 2005-2006 meeting) tried to respond to these shortcomings in the systems at the time. Madam President, the parliamentary inquiry I have just referred to led to an incident in 2005. An incident in which an escaped TB's committed a serious crime. It was the second time that year. The current TBS system, as was said at the time, is insufficiently capable of protecting society in its present form. At the same time, that was the task of investigating the committee. It was also particularly interesting to note that this report has dealt extensively with politics and media logic. Even now, we are dealing with this, while learning mistakes, it is open to improvements more than ever. The legislation before us today seeks to balance interests better and to strike a balance between the protection of society on the one hand and the interests of the patient on the other. I shall go back to the distant past, as has just been done for a while. A hundred years ago, the predecessors of the three legislative proposals were only on certain provisions in the Civil Code and on a provisional and brief arrangement according to the Royal Decree of 11 April 1818. In 1841, a special Law on Insanity came into force, which, after a number of interim amendments, resulted in special admissions to psychiatric hospitals (Wet BOPZ) in 1992. This law, in turn, was eventually replaced by the Law on compulsory mental health care (Wvggz). When we look at the legal history, it is very clear that the patient's interest is becoming increasingly central. In 1818 the starting point was that society had to be protected from the sufferer. There was hardly any regard for the needs and for the well and woe of the patient. The law of 1841 significantly improved the daily care of patients, and it was called "sustainable" and that was a new word about places to promote recovery. The recording should then be based on a court ruling. The patient himself, family, the prosecutor and treating physician was mentioned that when the nerve doctor was given a major role in the request for admission. The change in society's perception of the importance of the patient and his treatment gradually became apparent. But even then, this legislation came about after a long and very difficult incubation process, in which solutions were always sought for several weaknesses of existing laws. It was 1884 when provinces were given responsibility for the presence of sufficient nursing homes, when state supervision was introduced into the law and mayors were given the power to put someone immediately in custody when there is a serious suspicion that someone presents such an immediate threat, not only to themselves but also to public order. So that was the new law. The proposals now before us have also been very intensive and lengthy, but in the opinion of the CDA Group, this has meant that there really is a better proposal. Care is central and no longer the forced admission. Forced care as an ultimatum remedium: only if all alternatives are exhausted in a voluntary framework and forced care is the last means to avert severe disadvantage, then coercion is allowed, and this forced care can now also be provided out of work. That is the starting point and its relevance is endorsed by the CDA Group. Then I come to the importance of the client, the patient, the person concerned, as previously noted. Moreover, would it not be appropriate for me to ask that question for the legibility of the legislation when the three legislative proposals also use a similar terminology? The patient's interest is great. The changes in the law will increase the emphasis on his well-being. At the same time, the importance of security for society as such is at least as great. Unfortunately, as a result of the disorder, people not only cause themselves serious harm, but also pose a threat to others or to social security. I'll start with the Wet forensic care. It's a framework law. The contents of the forensic care are not described here. Patients should be directed to the right care. After all, it is about the right placement and also about ensuring possible transfer. The objectives of these legislative changes are clear: sufficient available, timely, appropriate and high-quality forensic care................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is precisely this that reduces repeated accidents and improves safety. In short: patients in the right place with the right care. In addition, the connection between the penal system and the curative ggz is improved. The adaptation of the control system and the financing of the TBS will prevent persons with mental impairment or mental impairment from entering a judicial establishment where they do not belong. The fact that things can go horribly wrong has recently turned out to be true again. Tackling events continue to fuel public pressure and perhaps also the political will to keep the safety of society in mind and less the individual interest of the patient. In this light, the CDA Group understands the scheme of non-observants. It is justifiable that a suspect of a tbs-worthy crime who, either on the recommendation of the defense, or as a result of the suspect's pathology, refuses to cooperate in the pro-justitia investigation can still be imposed on tbs. The amendment proposed by this law to Article 37a of the Criminal Code makes it possible to use existing medical data of reluctant observers to answer the question of whether a mental disorder existed at the time of committing the crime. This regulation may provide for an urgent social need, taking into account the requirements of proportionality, subsidiarity and efficiency, as well as the compliance of the regime with our fundamental rights, in the interests of medical professional secrecy. On Friday we received a letter from Mr Wolfsen, chairman of the Dutch Data Protection Authority, who has devised another variant for the refusing observers. I would like to hear a response from the government to that. At first sight, I can see that a lot of legislation needs to be changed, but perhaps that is the reason to say: we have a first judgment and we will take it with us when we have an evaluation. Madam President. We also saw that a safe and responsible transfer between the different domains of forensic care, prison system, forensic ggz and tbs, requires the utmost care, taking into account the risk of social unrest, escape and recidivism, the level of security needed and the presence of suitable places at all institutions. The Minister has now indicated that the implementation of the Wfz chain approach will be less extensive than that of the other laws. That is good, because that is essential, precisely in view of the unrest in society. Madam President. I have already briefly spoken about the transition between the different domains of forensic care. The CDA Group also asked the Minister to pay attention to the continuity of treatment in the transition from criminal care to regular care and to the continuity of care for people with dangerous and disruptive behaviour who need care but no longer have a legal title. We have also expressed our concerns in the written input on the composition of young people placed under civil law and young people placed under criminal law. Although we also get reports from practice that it's just a coincidence where you end up as a vulnerable intellectually limited child, we've drawn attention to that. We believe that the exploration to allow certain young people with a criminal title to stay in a civil juvenile institution should take place carefully and with the greatest possible restraint. Mr. Chairman. I come to the Law mandatory ggz. With regard to this law, I can be brief. The new law is much more focused on preventing mandatory care and opting for less coercion. There is an eye for the unintended, long-term harmful effects of mandatory care. This indeed fits in with the present image of self-determination, human integrity and dignity. It does justice to a development that has been going on for a long time. Increasing the involvement of family members and other directly involved parties and anchoring their participation and rights in the decision or mandatory care is essential. Family members often know the patient like no other. Setting up a family confidant can make this easier. Madam President. Then the Health and Force Act psychogeriatric and mentally handicapped clients. This legislative proposal, aimed at people with dementia, the elderly and those with learning disabilities, is based on the principle that coercive measures do not apply; 'no, unless' rather than 'who does not speak up'. Here too, forced care should only be applied when all alternatives to voluntary care have been tested and involuntary care is the only way to prevent serious harm, and then only under responsible supervision, not only within institutions but also now that care can be provided elsewhere, with the elderly, the disabled or the sick home. A detailed roadmap involving an external expert will have to ensure adequate safeguards. The CDA Group has noted that the government intends to make a proposal to the Lower House to amend the position of the Wzd-arts. We are in favour of this, but we are very curious to see how the other side will react. From the field but also this afternoon by the various spokesmen, it has always been pointed out that bureaucracy and the practical objections to the very large number of people involved in the decisions to be taken under this law. Carefulness is absolutely essential, but if it leads to such lengthy procedures, then it harms both the patient and society. We welcome the proposal to amend the legislative proposal where possible, as announced, by means of a further amendment to the House of Representatives. It has already been said here: you should have consolidated legislation. What I've been asking for is a flowchart. How do you want to make it clear to someone when, at what point, which steps should be taken? I tried it myself, but I can't do it. But the government has so many good people who could certainly do that. I also think that this is important in the context of information. By the way, I noticed that in the 2005 report on tbs there was a nice flowchart. So it's possible. I therefore ask you once again to make this commitment to us. Just a few more comments. The CDA Group welcomes the commitment of the rulers to ensure a careful implementation path. In doing so, it is admitted that legislation and explanations are actually translated into practical manuals and flow charts. I've just mentioned it, but I don't see it coming out yet. On the other hand, it must be ensured that the whole chain of care and safety is adequately equipped for its task. The arrangements are not simple. When is this one institution going to happen? When is there no resistance? Is there sufficient competent capacity to make decisions in relation to this group of vulnerable people at the right time? Is there sufficient harmonisation in the legal situation? Does everyone know what's expected of him at what time? Can information be shared between the public prosecutor, ggz domain and the municipalities? We also heard a number of things during the hearing about the failure to do so. The Minister states that the implementation project will be launched for all three legislative proposals. I would like to know, on behalf of the CDA Group, when the completion of this process is expected. What's the timetable? Can you say something about that? Practice has shown that there are not always sufficient reception and treatment options available for the target groups of this law. The Minister states that the responsibility for sufficient capacity lies with the health offices, municipalities and health insurers. But it is good to note that he sees a role as a driver for himself. Financial space is supposedly being created. And that these additional finances are needed has been put forward on several occasions on behalf of various organisations. We look forward to this inventory of signals about bed deprivation and any necessary actions with interest. Madam President, I'm almost done. Now that the forced care can be provided on an out-of-arm basis, the view of those concerned is much less intense. Not only the safety of those involved is our concern, but certainly that of the healthcare provider. The AMvBs which lay down further safeguards and rules aimed at ensuring the safety of the persons concerned and of the caregiver will be................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Minister states that precisely this flexibility to be laid down at AMvB can be provided, because it is possible to react as quickly as possible. The Council of State does not see that as a blow, because it was very critical of this. This care is a key part of the legislation, and in that sense only a very careful legislative procedure is appropriate. Practically as we are, we understand the practical balance that the minister wants to make here, but it is good, so we ask him, to consult a considerable number of professionals and experience experts before coming up with these AMvBs. Mr. Chairman. Despite all the concern for the safety of those involved, patients and caregivers, it must not be forgotten that not only they need protection, but certainly innocent people who happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. The CDA Group asked a number of questions about the possibilities for information exchange between OM, police, municipalities and ggz, about the position of the medical director and the caretaker, about the legal protection of client, patient, data subject and about the independence of the client confidant. I must tell you that the way in which the reply is written is very good. Thank you for that. Finally, I would like to make the following point. "Care" and "force" seem to be two opposing concepts, but it is clear that they may be mutually exclusive. After all, it requires a great deal of care from all those involved. As a CDA group, we believe that these proposals really need to be implemented quickly and that this legal framework has at least brought about a better regulation than the current legislation in this area. The evaluation, which we will have in two or three years' time, will teach us whether the right balance has indeed been found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u47	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u48	Mr. Chairman. For our part, too, congratulations to Mr De Bruijn-Wezeman and a warm welcome to the ministers and the Secretary of State, who are making their debut today with such important legislative proposals, at least in this cabinet period in this Chamber. My group would like us to be able, once again, to raise the debate on care to a higher level and to discuss what really matters, namely ensuring optimal and accessible care for those who need it. It is always very tempting to fall into technocratic and bureaucratic discussions or into easy-going populist talk that does not do justice to the complicated reality. After all, it is about how we deal with the complex dilemmas of care, care that we want to give to people who need it and who sometimes do and sometimes do not ask for it. It's about people like my mom, who's slowly demented and can decide a lot of things for themselves, but not everything. It's about the people with sometimes severe mental and physical disabilities that my sister as a doctor is responsible for and who often can't decide for themselves what's good for them. It's about people with psychiatric disorders or addictions who sometimes know very well what they want but can't realize it, whether they want something that's problematic for themselves or for others. It is about people who commit serious crimes or who could possibly commit them again under the influence of their limitation or disorder, when we must ensure safety for themselves, but above all for innocent people in their environment, without taking unnecessarily rigid draconian measures. In other words: it is always about dilemmas in the care, and even more so when we talk about forced care. That is, in a sense, an internal conflicting term, and perhaps not. Mr Oomen has just said this in a different way. Care is basically to enter into a care relationship in which you are fundamentally equal, you take responsibility for caring for the other and you do what they need. At the moment when compulsion comes into play, it is at least absolved by the equivalent care relationship. If the other can resist or can't even indicate that he or she wants to, it's all the more pressing. But there can be no escape from that either, because no intervention can lead to much greater suffering. That is the dilemma that these legislative proposals address in an important way. The core of our assessment will therefore be whether the coercion is indeed limited to the minimum and whether the rights of the forced person are protected as far as possible. In addition, we will have to ask whether the way in which the dilemmas are weighed up is not organised so heavily that it will lead to a reduction in the quality of care. My group is pleased that we are dealing jointly with the three laws. This has led to some delays, but it also means that we can take a good look at the coherence. The reality of forced care is complex. That starts with the question of which law applies where and when. What do we do with a client with intellectual disabilities, who also develops psychiatric problems? What do we do with the fact that inmates often have a slight mental disability and/or psychiatric problems above average? What do we do if someone with psychotic disorders commits a crime? It is precisely this overlap that makes it difficult to develop a clear legal framework. That is why my group's first question to the government is to clarify this. On the one hand, it has often been said in the discussion that the present problem must determine the legal framework to be used. They're personal and non-locational laws. That makes sense, but the question is whether that is workable. In practice, we see that in the case of inpatient care, the institutional setting is not the problem at hand. Institutions for care of the elderly or for the mentally handicapped count on the Law on care and compulsion, even when clients develop a mental disorder there that may require forced care. Ggz institutions will use the Compulsory ggz Act, even if there is a clear psychogeriatric disorder or intellectual disability. In the forensic setting one will always see the forensic aspect as the present. Our question is: doesn't the division into three laws actually mean that the institutional framework in which care is provided determines the scope of the law being applied? This is problematic, because in both young people and adults, it sometimes seems to depend on chance in which sector or sub-area someone goes for care. In the adult patient, the first indication of the disease is extremely important. Sometimes that is determined by the discipline of the intaker alone. In the case of youth ggz, strict criteria are applied, which means that many young people with mental illness who could best be treated in the youth ggz, instead end up in youth care institutions or judicial youth institutions. In the forensic ggz, imposition of a measure and placement are increasingly being separated and people in the forensic psychiatric centers are being treated by the reduced number of people made available on the basis of other legal bases, and thus with different legal bases and forms of funding. Relocation can often not take place quickly enough, so that the current problem is not always consistent with the institution where someone is staying. If all this is so in practice now, should we not just be clear and honest and not talk too highly about "personal" versus "location-related" arrangements? If not, how can we ensure that the institutions are able and equipped to apply a multiple legal framework? It is not for nothing that we see a plea from the field to bring together or harmonize the laws as much as possible, but at the very least this principle must be clear. So please give a more detailed explanation from the government: is that personal aspect of the law really feasible and feasible? A second point that raises questions is the embedding of these laws into effective policies. Forced care is sometimes inevitable, but often comes into the picture where caregivers are powerless to find other solutions. This also has to do with capacity shortages, for example, or with the inability of professionals. Reducing forced care should therefore be the aim of policy and legislation. This means that every effort must be made to ensure adequate and well-trained staff, capable of giving warm human attention to these vulnerable people in an environment so that the compulsion can be minimized, because then there is less need for coercive medication, isolation and bonding. That is why we ask the government if it can give us more insight into the relationship between quality and capacity on the one hand and the need for coercive measures on the other. How has this relationship been investigated so far and how is it involved in the evaluation? Does the government have a target level for minimising coercive measures and what does it do with the field parties to achieve this? What measures are being taken to put the absorption capacity, transfer options and treatment options in place under these three different legal regimes? In particular, how are psychogeriatric care and care for the mentally handicapped, where it is mainly caregivers who also carry out coercive measures, ensure quality, care and professionalism? I'd like an explanation. If coercive measures are needed to provide good care, then the considerations must be made as pure as possible and as practical as possible. That too has been said by colleagues. There is tension between that, because there is a huge spectrum of measures, running from, for example, keeping an outside door locked to forced medication. Where exactly is the border between forced care and common sense in the care of those who cannot fully assess what is good for them? My group shares the principle that any restriction of people's freedom requires care and, if it becomes more specific, the possibility of complaint and appeal. Therefore, the starting point of a care plan with clear frameworks is a good choice in advance. But it cannot be the intention that everything should be boarded up. If a caretaker in psychogeriae brings a wild moving or screaming resident from the living room to his own room because otherwise all residents will be stressed, shouldn't she first go through a step-by-step plan or call a doctor? Or is it? My daughter-in-law, who works in that sector, tells me about it. And outside the institution it is even more complicated, for example in the care of addicts or confused persons, where a form of interference is sometimes essential and one must also be able to act on things. And that is why our question to the government: how are you going to monitor and evaluate the balance between legal protection and feasibility? How do you ensure that caregivers can do their job optimally, without too much fuss, while at the same time ensuring that the rights of vulnerable clients are optimally protected? Will we indeed be able to discuss with each other in the evaluation in a few years' time whether we have perhaps over-estimated it and whether it could perhaps be done with a simpler structure? Within the Care and Force Act, for example, the care plan and the roadmap have been extensively identified, but thanks to all the changes it is now so that when the client or his representative disagrees with the forced care that is always the case external advice should be requested. But that's by definition the case with forced care, isn't it? That means that external advice is always needed. The Minister has already announced that he wants to limit this, because it is not proportionate in this way. The external expert shall only be involved if this is necessary for the proper provision of care. Can the Minister put that more precisely? We know that there is still a legislative amendment to this, but we would like to know which way he is thinking, because it has a direct impact on whether this law puts it all too tight. But apart from that scope: how is this external advice organised? How does the government prevent an army of desks and medical advisers from diving in here to produce all these external advices against big money? Have agreements been made on this subject with the field, so that institutions, for example, can carry out this external consultative task over and over again and thus keep it all a little under control? Next, I have a question about the different responsibilities. Article 2.3 provides for this to ensure the independence of the medical director. Has the Minister considered that, in accordance with the recommendations of the ZonMw research, the medical director should be appointed and supervised by the Supervisory Board rather than directly by the board of the institution? What did that consideration do? As far as the Wzd is concerned, the Minister intends to extend the function of the Wzd doctor to the EZ psychologist or the academicly trained orthopedagogue. In this way, the Minister's amendment to the Leijten amendment is substantially modified. As a reason, he argues to...... at least between the rules of his letter of 18 December by..... the limited capacity and, above all, the lack of added value if there are no medical dimensions involved. Now this comes back as a separate legislative proposal, but the question is whether these dimensions are so simple to distinguish. Many clients with learning difficulties have many visible and invisible physical conditions and risks, so it is a question of whether a behavioral expert has sufficient knowledge to do so. In the case of fixation, for example, you should know that people with intellectual disabilities are at greater risk of osteoporosis. Does an orthopedagogic know that? What is the Minister's view of this interconnectedness of dimensions and what does that mean for the allocation of powers? And then I come to one final question about the responsibilities. With the Wzd and the Wvggz, the outpatient context is rightly given a lot of attention. But that also raises questions. Carers are excluded from the law and are therefore allowed to lock up a demented older or a resident family member with a mental disorder, while an outpatient care worker is not allowed to do so. So it is attractive for that care worker to have the freedom restriction carried out by the carers. How, so my group wants to know from the government, can all kinds of indirect and direct forms of coercion be controlled outside an institutional context? In this context, what are adequate forms of supervision? And then who's the caretaker? That will probably be the GP in many situations. Or are we wrong about that? And if it's the GP, is it equipped to apply these laws? Or should home care organisations, which have to work with coercive measures in the context of Wzd or Wvggz care, hire a doctor to do so? Mr. Chairman. It is clear that we have a positive basic position on these legislative proposals, but that we also see difficulties and eyes, which are directly the result of the fundamental dilemmas that are linked to forced care. To our questions about demarcation and overlap, personal or location-related, capacity and professionalism, legal protection and feasibility, responsibilities and supervision, I would like to summarize them. My colleague, Mr Tineke Strik, will deal with the other aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u49	Thank you very much, Mr Ganzevoort. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman and to welcome the rulers. Mr. Chairman. "No, unless" is the starting point for the use of coercion in care. I would add that the civil framework takes precedence over criminal law. As far as we are concerned, everything should be aimed at preventing psychiatric patients from receiving the care they need only once they have entered the criminal justice system. The criminal and civil framework are better aligned with the three laws, and that is a great good thing. But not all care situations involving a form of coercion are linked to aspects of security and public order. That raises some questions for my group about the ratio and desirability of the new role of the Public Prosecutor in the authorisation procedures. Didn't it get too big? And do we not run the risk that the importance of safety will be given a greater role than that of proper treatment and that of the patient's need for care? During the expert meeting in the First Chamber, the D.A.'s position was that it can only properly fulfil the active applicant's role if the healthcare authorisation process originates in and is associated with threatening criminal behaviour. Nor did the prosecution appear to be convinced of the added value of the public prosecutor's presence at all hearings, and stressed that this would unnecessarily increase the nature of a criminal case. Furthermore, capacity would be insufficient for structural attendance. Could the government elaborate on these points? In addition, the question arises as to whether the public prosecutor will not have too much of a dominant position, since he can also apply for a care authorisation if, in the opinion of an independent psychiatrist or medical director, the criteria for compulsory care are not met. Are there any further criteria? And in what situations does the government consider it conceivable that the judge should issue a care authorisation against the wishes of a prosecutor? My group agrees with the principle that a similar psychological problem requires similar treatment, irrespective of the legal title. However, due to the required level of security, care in the regular ggz settings will not always be appropriate. And in the first term of the treatment of the Forensic Care Act, I pointed out that the immense loss of capacity to forensic psychiatric care during the past year may pose a threat, so that there might be too little supply on the one hand or on the other. The starting point of the right patient in the right place, and of a good connection between forensic and curative care, naturally requires financial frameworks tailored to this. I would like a reassuring, but also well-founded answer to this. Mr. Chairman. The Minister stresses that these forensic treatment options do not undermine the need for the proposed "refusal observatories." A TBS measure provides for the most appropriate treatment and security and aims at a phased and gradual return to society, as far as possible. My group agrees that the aim is to impose as much as possible a TBS measure as is most appropriate. The question is, however, whether this objective always justifies an infringement of medical professional secrecy. The Personal Data Authority does not think so. Nor has the Minister been able to convince our group of the necessity and proportionality of this interruption. Of course, this is also closely linked to the risk that care and assistance may be avoided, or in any case that suspects withhold relevant information from their health care provider or may wish to have the data contained in the file destroyed. All these possible effects undermine the accessibility of care and may even increase the risk to society. We would like to know from the Minister what alternatives he has explored to this solution. For the sake of the protection of medical professional secrecy, the Dutch Data Protection Authority has put forward an alternative solution here in any case, and we are very curious whether the Minister has already considered and examined it before. The Authority points out the distinction between a penalty and a measure, in short a penalty for prevention and retaliation and a measure such as the TBS measure for security and treatment. In that context, the Authority argues for the possibility to include the TBS measure in the final decision not directly but in a separate procedure with regard to the refusal of observers, where the court has insufficient grounds to impose a TBS measure. As a result, in these situations, the judge considers the defendant to be a criminal offence and states in the judgment the refusal to cooperate in the pro-justitia investigation. Subsequently, further monitoring and investigation could be carried out during the execution of the sentence, with the prosecution still being able to claim TBs within two years of the final sentence, in addition to or instead of imprisonment. The two-year deadline is, of course, subject to discussion, but, for reasons of legal certainty, a time limit must be set. This procedure could provide relief for specific situations without sacrificing medical professional secrecy. We would like to hear a response from the Minister to this option. Mr. Chairman. A better link between criminal and civil proceedings can also be a part of a solution for the refusing observers, because a person who has served his time but is still a danger to society can be included through the Wvggz. Of course, there must be information about the need for compulsory care. I'm aware of that. In this context, I would ask the Minister's attention to care from the judicial chain that Article 2.3 of the Forensic Care Act, under which the criminal court itself grants a care authorisation, cannot replace all the possibilities of the current Article 37 of the Criminal Code. Both the Public Prosecutor and the Council are afraid of a legal gap, in particular with regard to the category of completely insanityable suspects. It's been memorized before. Moreover, there is a fear that Article 2.3, as a link between criminal law and civil law, may be the main force of the system, but because of the complexity and accumulation of procedures, it will either prove too cumbersome, for example, because all civil law steps will have to be taken first, or will prove to be a dead letter. In the reply, the State Secretary explains that the combination is indeed efficient and effective. But won't the judge have to wait and see if the D.A.'s office actually makes a request? And if there is a coincidence, perhaps with which the principle of ultimum remedium is more effective, why can the patient only in the criminal proceedings and not at the same time also in the issuing of the care authorisation? Then you would really get an integral consideration and improve the patient's legal position. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. When we talk about legal status, I would also like to point out that the European Court of Human Rights is forcing the Dutch legislator to strengthen the legal status of patients. The present legislative proposals must, of course, also pass the test of the case law of the Court. In particular, in the light of Article 5 of the ECHR, the question can be asked whether access to justice in the case of involuntary care without inclusion in the Health and Force Act is sufficiently guaranteed. There is no prior judicial review or immediate access to a judge after that, because the complaint procedure must first be completed. This difference with recording situations is not easy to explain, especially since the laws no longer actually rely on location-relatedness, but on the care that is needed. So why was that distinction made between those two cases? Can the Minister explain why this was chosen and how this relates to the case law of the ECHR? In this context, it is, of course, also very important to define the distinction between deprivation of liberty and restriction of liberty. Is the Minister prepared to do so in more detail? Will the government ensure that complaints procedures are dealt with as quickly as possible, so that access to justice is guaranteed as quickly as possible? Mr. Chairman. The government does not agree with the view of the Supervisory Committee of the UN Disability Convention that forced admission is never admissible. My group also recognises that there are situations where compulsion and urge are extreme means to be applied; sometimes to protect the person from himself and sometimes against society. However, the standards of the Disability Convention, which the Netherlands has ratified, should be the starting point. As the present legislative proposals aim precisely to strengthen the legal position of clients, my group believes that the optional protocol to this treaty should also be signed and ratified by the Netherlands as soon as possible. The Minister replied in the documents that this issue is complex and requires careful decision-making. However, I would point out that the First Chamber called on the government to ratify a few years ago. I would therefore like to know at what stage the decision-making process is now at and what questions are still unanswered. The ratification of the Treaty itself has also taken years, with the same argument, namely that further study was needed. Studies on the consequences of the Convention or the optional protocol are not so fundamentally different. The main point is that the Netherlands must comply with the obligations, with or without an optional protocol. However, the added value of the protocol is that this individual right of complaint allows clients to invoke the Convention themselves and to appeal to the government for compliance. My group believes that, contrary to the far-reaching powers given to the public authorities and treatment providers, the right of complaint of clients can serve as a necessary contribution to their own direction and to the checks-and-balances that we need. Mr. Chairman. In many cases, both the Health and Force Act and the Wvggz do not allow an appeal against a judge's decision. This is sometimes the case in cases where it is most necessary, for example in the case of crisis placements. In doing so, files are being built up at a rapid rate and sometimes information does not come out until later, which one would then like to use in a follow-up procedure. From the point of view of strengthening the patient's position, the government initially considered it undesirable to exclude the possibility of appeal. In particular, because of the limitation of freedom rights, the impairment of physical integrity and the nature and duration of the care authorisation, the government saw no reason to withhold the appeal. However, following the request of the Council of State to provide further justification and to answer some of these questions, the government suddenly decided to remove the possibility of appeal. Now the government also indicates that there has not been any need for appeal, without explaining whether this has been investigated and what consequences the deletion could have. As a result of the deletion, the client can no longer appeal against the content of the judge's decision, but only have a higher court assessed by means of a cassation whether a proper procedure has been followed. The problem with this is that this bill shows the judge a lot of discretion in whether or not to hear witnesses or in ordering that investigations should be carried out by experts. There will probably be very few cases in which the Supreme Court will consider that the rights have made a procedural mistake. In our view, it is much more important that the content of the assessment is subject to a judicial review. I'd like a response to that. A further point on legal aid. A prerequisite for the proper legal status of patients is access to high-quality legal assistance. The Van der Meer Committee's report showed that the lawyer's workload has also increased due to a reduction in beds in psychiatric care and the tendency to send people home faster. This would result in more conditional authorisations being imposed. According to the Van der Meer Committee, lawyers indicate that the remuneration of four points for the conditional authorisation is not sufficient, because they are working on it for at least five to seven hours. In the coalition agreement, the cabinet promises to take over the recommendation of the Van der Meer Committee. What's this gonna mean for the flat-rate fee? My group believes that this is an urgent issue, also because, because of the workload, non-specialized lawyers often already represent the interests of very vulnerable clients. Mr. Chairman. As my colleague Mr Ganzevoort has pointed out, with attention and good training, many patients can be persuaded of the importance of appropriate care, so that coercion can be kept to a minimum. Can the Minister promise that the quality/capacity ratio and the need for coercion will be part of the evaluation? Something has already been said about the legislative change that is coming. Perhaps this change in the law can take into account the great dynamics in the names of the Ministry of Justice and Security, so that that name is in line. I do not know whether the slow pace of the change in the law is linked to the dynamics of the names, as this requires constant changes in the law. Mr. Chairman. From the field and from evaluations, the opinion comes out to create a single coherent legal regime, in which different regimes can be included with milder and heavier forms of coercion. This would make the regulation clearer, more accessible and more consistent. My group has the impression that, for the sake of time in particular, the government has opted for two laws, and that is why it has been carrying out an evaluation in two years' time, as a kind of compromise. My group understands the urgency and urgency, but also sees the disadvantages and risks of a radical change in the system, because perhaps a few years later this will go on again if it becomes apparent that a coherent legal system is actually preferable. Fast-tracking fundamental changes can be disastrous both for the field and for patients. How do we prevent them from being burdened with enormous challenges for implementation and adaptation, when we may be going back to doing so a few years later? I'd like an answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I shall suspend the debate and the sitting two hours and twelve minutes before dinner break, until 8 p.m. We finished an hour earlier than scheduled, but you will get 12 minutes extra time for dinner break. I think it's nice for the rulers, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u52	The next item is the continuation of the joint treatment of the legislative proposals Act mandatory mental health care (32399), Law on care and compulsion psychogeriatric and mentally handicapped clients (31996) and Law on forensic care (32388). Is the Secretary of State on his way? He's coming, I hope. Before I give the floor to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, I would like to draw attention to the following. I hope that, if possible, we will finish the first term of office of the cabinet before noon this evening. I hope that's what everyone wants in mind. I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u53	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. And thank you also, in advance, for this encouragement in terms of tempo. You have asked an impressive number of questions. I am talking not only about the quantity, but also, in particular, about its complexity. Bondion is not my strongest side, I say. We haven't known each other that long, but conciseness isn't my strongest side. So if you would like to encourage me again tonight, you feel very welcome to do so. Because I need that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u54	Can I also say it if you say the same thing twice or three times, but in other words? Can I do that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u55	Of course, Mr. Chairman. I like to be coached and encouraged. Mr President, thank you very much for your warm welcome here. Our first reception, not for all three, but for two out of three. In any case, it is the first real debate in this new cabinet period. The last time we sat here, we were a little more non-executive behind the table. But now we must actually get to work, and immediately with laws that, as each of you has said, are not the least when it comes to complexity and being profound in people's lives, but also when it comes to added value. I think that all the groups have said in their own words that the laws that lie ahead are taken in themselves as major steps forward: less compulsion, no unless, a significantly better legal protection for the people involved, a better perspective of action, a more action perspective for the people in care and ultimately better protection for society. A major lap for mankind, you might say. At the same time, and of course it is also about laws that we have not typed ourselves, which is not possible either, you have indicated a number of hesitations that we naturally had when we, freshly starting on this task, took these legislative proposals to our names and reviewed them. We recognize the hesitations you have had in that regard. Nevertheless, we believe that, under the line, these laws are an important step forward, for the reasons I have just mentioned. Now I can go into it very extensively, which is certainly prepared for the history of origin, but you have already done so yourself. Some went back to 1818, I believe. Mrs Oomen did it and Mr Van Dijk even went back to the ancient Greeks. I think you have given an extremely adequate description of how the legislative proposals before us have been drawn up and produced. I actually think I should concentrate on the questions that have been asked. I want to divide them as follows. I would like to start with a first block, which is about legal protection, the alleged differences in legal protection in the two legal regimes. Many questions have been asked about this and quite fundamental questions have also been asked. Then I would like to continue with a block of two that deals with the different actors in the roadmap, the Wzd doctor, the external expert and the caretaker. As far as I am concerned, block three deals with feasibility, implementation, administrative burden and evaluation. Then I have a block with other questions that were less easy to classify. First, the differences in legal protection. It is indeed about two different legal regimes. You yourself have already indicated what the background to this has been in history. I think there is a strong argument why we are dealing here with two different legal regimes. Presumed: the Wzd and the compulsory ggz Act know the route via court for forced admission, just like the BOPZ. For forced care, the Law compulsory ggz knows the way through the judge and the Law care and coercion the step plan with the independent test by the Wzd doctor. So you could say that for forced care these laws actually regulate more than the BOPZ did. There was also no legal protection within the BOPZ for coercion that took place outside the BOPZ institution. There was, of course, sometimes a form of involuntary care. I would therefore think that both laws in relation to the BOPZ represent a substantial strengthening of the legal position. Why do these legislative proposals now opt for two legal regimes? Several political groups have indicated the background to this. No one will deny that there are different target groups. The elderly care, psychogeriatric care, disability care and ggz are really different target groups. Also in the way care is designed you can see differences in target groups, for example in the extent to which family is involved or in the extent to which patients can still express their will and you can involve that expression of will in the design of care. You can really see that these differences in target groups make a genuinely different form of care not only necessary, but also logical. The second one, and Mrs Barth, had already given the warning of profits that she was not convinced by that argument, but I nevertheless put on the naughty shoes in order to put it down with conviction. Many groups have expressed hesitation at all about the feasibility of the legislative proposal before us. Imagine that for 300,000 potential clients in pg and vg care, we would need to move to court in order to be able to apply something of forced care. I think that all of us do feel that this does not benefit the feasibility. It is not just about the taxation of the judiciary, but also about the feasibility of an institution when it has to take the step to the courts. Apart from the tax that this also entails for family, Mrs De Bruijn has drawn attention to this. I think these are good arguments for choosing another regime. At the same time, and that is what I think Mrs Barth is pointing out, but Mrs Bikker too must not be allowed to say that there really is a difference in legal protection in its gravity. All three target groups must experience the same level of legal protection. I do regard the argument put forward by the previous cabinet in the Lower House, namely that the legal protection under the Wzd is not so much less, but rather differently designed. At the same time, I also feel Mrs Barth and Mrs Bikker's hesitation in doing so. Mrs Barth, for example, asks if you could make a difference between light and heavy care. The previous cabinet indicated this in the House of Representatives, and this cabinet has taken that view on the fact that it is not so easy at all to shape that difference between light and heavy care in a good way, precisely because people themselves can experience the difference between light and heavy care in a very different way than we would fill it in for them. My hesitation is: is the doctor going to decide what type of legal regime is applicable? If so, what does it do with equality of law? I think it is always the case, even in the current BOPZ, that the person who makes the assessment makes the assessment of which type of regime applies. Laws don't implement themselves: that's what people always do. You can make mistakes in that. It's still human work, of course. At the same time, the question is how problematic it is, for which group and how big that group is. Mrs Barth asks if you could ask the inspection to look closely at the implementation on this point. That's a sensible suggestion, which I'd like to take over. I would add one more thing, namely to include in the evaluation whether this actually leads to complexity in implementation practice. Then there is one more certainty that I would like to build in, namely that we, too, have a client-confidence person - each client has a client-confidence person - to ensure that the regime that is applicable is the appropriate regime that should also be considered applicable, given the client's background. If there is another type of problem, that other regime must also apply. These are actually the three'safety posts' that I would like to build in because of Mrs Barth's hesitation. In particular, Mrs Bikker asked about the evaluation. I have said of this: I am happy to add it. That with regard to block 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u56	I heard the minister say there are three safety valves, but I actually counted only two: the inspection and the client confidence person.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u57	And the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u58	Okay, I took that as one with the inspection, but fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u59	Once this block of the Minister has been completed, my question on this point has not yet been fully answered. It is about this: whether it is de facto a personal arrangement. What I hear from the field is that institutions are preparing to follow the current theme of the institution and that the regime will be applied on that basis. If not, is the question: are these institutions prepared to work with a multiple regime?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u60	It is right that you should recall your question, because I could have answered it under this block. I had put him with the others myself. Why do we call this law client-related? Because the previous law was locational. Customer loyalty, when it comes to customization, is a step forward in relation to the institutional orientation of the previous legislation. You say: it is quite decisive which doctor or care professional meets someone first, because he will look at a client with his own regime in his head. It's not entirely wrong for you to say that. An institution for care of the elderly will focus in particular on this Wzd and a psychiatric institution will focus in particular on the compulsory ggz Act. When are you gonna call someone like that? Those who report will see for a while under which regime that would make sense. For someone who's obviously a psychiatric patient, you don't call an elderly care institution, you call an institution from the psychiatry or a FACT team. I am thinking for a moment of the concern expressed by Mrs Barth. In other words, perhaps you asked the same question. Sometimes it's not quite clear. I am thinking in particular of people who actually fall into the VG group, along with a serious psychiatric disorder. Then what regime are you going to let prevail? I think that the implementation practice will be less complicated than it is properly distinguished on paper. The implementation practice will often give more clarity. Is there a possibility of "between shore and ship" and "from the locker to the wall"? Yeah, at most you start in one regime, while the other regime turns out to prevail. It could be. I think it would be a good idea, according to those safety valves as I just put them, to get to work in that implementation practice. First of all, that is the good way to equip that client-confidence person, who can say: hey, but there should actually be someone else working here or applying another regime. The second is the proper incorporation of the evaluation. This is a point that we need to get involved in this evaluation. The third point I have just lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u61	You will.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u62	I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u63	Mr. Ganzevoort would like to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u64	My question was not so much how it happened at intake. Then it's what institution you end up with. There may also be a shift at the time people are already staying in a care facility. In VG care, psychiatric problems can play a role. Then it is the question at what point in time that should pass. The signals I get are that institutions say: in this situation we simply continue to apply the same law, because that is the regime with which we work best here. We can hardly do two things at once, so we just work through the Wzd, for example, even if there is a psychiatric problem at some point, because that doesn't change the situation very much. Then my question is: do we have a genuine client-related arrangement or do we not still have a location-related arrangement? If he doesn't want to, I'll ask the Minister what he's gonna do about it. How does the government ensure, for example, that there is sufficient expertise in all VG institutions to work with the Wvggz and vice versa? If we do not want that, we simply have to be honest and say that it is still a locational arrangement, in which we are only going to try to do the intake better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u65	I don't agree with that last conclusion anyway. Compared to the previous legislation, it is no longer an institutional law. It's not a law special in psychiatric hospitals, no, it's a treatment law. It's really about customization. You can also shape outpatient care. You're sketching a slightly different situation from Mrs Barth. If someone is already in an institution, for example, and there would be a need for psychiatric and forced treatment, then they should move from one regime to another. Then the regime should be subject to the mandatory ggz Act, because the treatment is likely to take place only at the location of that ggz institution. In many cases, disability care institutions are also really equipped differently. Can you do it within that one institution? The number of institutions that can offer that type of psychiatric treatment in a forced setting at a location of the VG sector is not very large. In this not very common case, that institution will indeed have to adapt itself to both arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u66	Finally, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u67	Sure. I think the minister will have a very different problem in the field. The transfer he is now suggesting is often very difficult to achieve in practice because of the capacity and that kind of thing. So I don't see that solution yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u68	But this law is not a solution to all the problems of care either. Does this offer adequate legal protection? You're gonna have to. That's what this block is about, and that's what makes your question so pressing. Does this also provide the same level of legal protection for equal cases? The answer to that question is yes. If the question is what is ahead, if problems come together, then I say that a doctor will only have to make a good choice. What guarantees are there for that? I have just answered that. What if it's about those clients in a disability care facility who actually need forced psychiatric treatment? In the event that this disability care institution can offer it at the same location, there will be a different regime from that point on. Then the authorisation under the Wzd is suspended and the validity of an authorisation under the compulsory ggz Act enters into force. The authorisation under the Wzd will only relive once the authorisation under the compulsory ggz Act is terminated. Such a client will indeed sometimes be able to be served at the same location, but much more often it will be about a different type of location where the person concerned will have to be served. By the way, we are talking about a rather limited target group in which this could be discussed. Those institutions do indeed have to equip themselves in both legal regimes. Then I will continue with a few more questions that also need to be answered under this block. Can the inspection be extra careful whether the right choice is made, especially in the outpatient setting? In my view, that is the concern that Mrs Barth has: what legal regime prevails in the outpatient setting of the target group, where it is a bit on a dividing line? That was the third safety valve I was looking for. That's what I promised. I'm sure you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u69	Mr President, I would like to make this very clear. What I asked for is this. I welcome the fact that the Minister is making this commitment, but what I have asked for is whether the inspection will ensure that the best intentions in care, especially in the care of the elderly and the mentally handicapped, do not continue to prevail, if the same health care provider who determines the regime in which you come is also the health care provider who provides the care. If the minister can still follow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u70	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u71	There's no independent look like the ggz. The minister just rightly states that laws are being implemented by people, but in the ggz you have the prosecutor, who looks at the whole process with a legal look. That legal look is missing from the Wzd. That's a purely care-oriented look. Our concern lies with the Wzd that people often find it difficult to express their resistance and that there is no independent legal view. Isn't there just too great a risk that caregivers continue to think for clients and actually use forced care, but reason away because it's much easier to say that it's voluntary? That is the element that I have asked the Minister to monitor and evaluate and have the inspection reviewed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u72	That's right. That's how I understood you. You are right to make a point. By the way, I would add, there is always the position of the Wzd doctor. I'll get back to you on that. Mr Schnabel has also asked me how I feel about this, because of course it has been amended in the House of Representatives. However, I think that is precisely where Wzd-doctor really has added value. That's an independent look. It is not so much a legally independent view. I also wonder whether that would really have added value to this type of measure, but it is at least an independent look. On top of that, it is very sensible to ensure that the inspection is properly looked at and, moreover, this point should really be taken into account in the evaluation. Then I come to Mrs Bikker's question, which is why ZonMw's most recent 2014 evaluation has not been followed up in order to opt for one law. Indeed, the cabinet does not already opt for one law. Moreover, another option has been put forward in ZonMw's evaluation, and that is what the government is choosing to do, namely to allow these two laws to exist side by side and to function side by side, and then we will consider in the evaluation whether this is problematic, whether it leads to problems in implementation practice and whether further integration is necessary and possible. My point is that you will always have a different type of legislation for those different target groups. One legal regime is, I think, still not good, apart from its practical feasibility. If you want to do the right thing for the clients involved, it is very doubtful whether everyone would be served on the same journey. "Everything the same" is actually less appropriate to what clients need than "everyone else," you might say. We therefore opt for 'everyone' in the legislative proposals before us, and I think that every evaluation will always make such a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u73	I am glad that the Minister says so, because I think he is just a step further than I have been able to draw from the documents so far. I am pleased to hear this, also because this is precisely a subject that is very clearly addressed in the forthcoming evaluation. That is exactly what ZonMw's evaluation says so clearly: let those systems or those laws exist side by side, and then see how things can proceed. But then I have a follow-up question. It is also very clear: one could also think of a single legal framework, and then of differentiated legislation for the target groups. If I listen to him carefully, the Minister says it might be so, so there is a hint of it, but I hope he will be really open to that in the forthcoming evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u74	Sure. I think we really should. We are doing a good thing here, I think, with the adoption and implementation of these legislative proposals and, as I said, we are going to take a really big step forward for clients. At the same time, the question is whether we could not go one step further. These hesitations are expressed by Mrs Bikker, and we have had them. But if you want to conclude now, then a little action is going to be taken as Mr Schnabel put it: 'the better can also be the enemy of the good'. By the way, he said it much more beautiful than I can say now. So I think that this is really the right thing for now, but, as Mrs Barth said, the discussion is obviously not over after you have voted on these legislative proposals. I have no illusions about that. On the contrary: then the debate begins on what needs to be done afterwards. Hopefully we will first give our full energy to its implementation, but of course you will immediately have that discussion. It is not for nothing that the previous cabinet has said that this evaluation should not take place after five years, but that it should be done after two years. And if you do that, after two years, you can also include this type of fundamental questions in that evaluation. Then you can also check whether the objections or hesitations, such as Mrs Bikker's now out, appear in the implementation practice as impetuous as they seem to be now. For example, what does it add, in the end, to actually having one law? If you look at how harmonised these legal regimes have already been, what does that add? Excellent work for lawyers, of course, but I am concerned about the implementation practice. That's question one. Question two is what it adds to legal protection. These are the questions raised by Mrs Bikker and Mrs Barth. What added value could it have for legal protection if you went a step further in terms of integration? Until now, Mrs De Bruijn, on behalf of the VVD, has asked for attention to be given to the fact that one law is too similar to the other law. Then he probably does not do enough justice to either target group. It is a search for that balance all the time, and I think that balance should also be visible in the evaluation. Our proposal would be to adopt and implement these laws now, and to evaluate soon after the introduction whether there is anything better to do. Mr President, I think I have had the most important questions, albeit one more question from Mrs De Bruijn. This question concerns the UN Committee on the Rights of People with Disabilities, because it states, in an interpretation of the ECHR, that forced care is in no way justified. That is an absolute interpretation, and it is also an interpretation which the European Court of Human Rights does not follow. On the contrary, the European Court states that there is also a positive obligation on Member States to provide for coercive care in exceptional cases, for example in case of suicide. The European Court of Justice does, of course, make binding rulings, so we are more attracted to that interpretation of the ECHR. We believe that we also have an obligation under international law to make care possible. That's what you said. If you really want to help people, you're gonna have to make that forced care possible once in a while. If you put humanity first, you will have to, of course, only as an ultimatum remedium and if the demands of proportionality, subsidiarity and efficiency are met, but it must be made possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u75	Thanks for the answer. I know the position of the European Court of Human Rights. The European Convention on Human Rights does indeed provide the space you indicate. But we have also signed the Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. In fact, it has an equivalent position to the European Convention on Human Rights. There's obviously tension between those two treaties. I was therefore particularly interested in this explanation, so perhaps you could comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u76	In fact, the ECHR states that this type of provision should be regulated at the level of the law. For example, the SGP Group has asked whether you cannot simply delete Article 2. The answer is no. You will always have to take care at the level of the law, so that it can be judged by the judge. Mrs Strik asked whether this interpretation was correct and whether it had been tested against the ECHR. The answer is yes. Mrs. Strik says it must always be subject to judicial review. That is also possible, albeit in retrospect and not in advance. This is without prejudice to the fact that it is indeed a judicial review. As far as we are concerned, this is a correct interpretation of the ECHR.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u77	Thanks for the answer. My question focused on that particular situation where there is no inclusion in the Health and Force Act. If there is deprivation of liberty or even a restriction of freedom, the ECHR requires immediate access to justice. That's very important. I have indicated that there are a number of thresholds in this. First, it's after and then you have the complaint procedure. So you can't equate that with immediate access to justice. My question was about the extent to which this was weighted and how it relates to Article 5 of the ECHR.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u78	You're gonna have to keep that up for me for a while. I would not be able to indicate that in that way. I also do not know whether there has been an eye for it during the treatment in the Lower House. If you don't mind, I'll take that back and I'll answer it tomorrow in my second term. You are concerned with the difference between deprivation of liberty and deprivation of liberty. Are these two concepts sufficiently weighted when considering whether this law complies with the ECHR?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u79	These can be both forms: deprivation of liberty and restrictions of liberty. The point is that coercion is applied without any mention of inclusion in the Health and Force Act. Because in all these situations there may be a restriction of liberty and perhaps even deprivation of liberty, the question is to what extent it is permissible because there is no direct access to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u80	If you will allow it, I will discuss it in greater detail tomorrow in the second term. With this, I've had block one. Mr. Chairman. Then I go to block 2 on the roadmap and especially the various actors involved. A lot of questions have been asked about it. I myself, of course, have given rise to this because I have sent a letter on this subject. It has to do with the feasibility of legislation, as Mr Schnabel has put forward most impregnantly. You keep trying to find a good balance. Legal protection, especially for clients in an outpatient setting where forms of coercion are still applied, has increased considerably with this law, absolutely. But is the law still feasible for implementation practice? I think the choice of the roadmap has been a good one. In addition to the Roadmap, there are several actors involved in the Roadmap, as well as the client confidant and also the CIZ. I would like to address all these different actors, starting with the caretaker. It is responsible for the care plan discussion, for the process of establishing a care plan and for the timely evaluation of the care plan. It therefore also decides whether a form of involuntary care is necessary. The question raised by Mrs Bikker, among others, is who can perform this function as a caretaker. At least the law mentions a doctor. But as the law now stands, more categories of experts can be identified under ministerial regulations. That's what Article 1 says. Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Bikker asked who that could be. Mrs Bikker also asked if there are enough doctors. Let me be clear on this point that I want to look very closely at how the implementation practice is now in place. Who the hell is doing that? Sometimes that is indeed a doctor, but much more often that is an Hbo'er and actually more often an Mbo'er, Mbo-4 or Mbo-3. That really depends on the care setting. I would like to join this implementation practice as much as possible, because you want to reach that change of behaviour with the primary care provider. Where will this change of behavior first become noticeable for clients? Those who continue to bear the responsibility for the implementation of the care plan will be most affected by the new regime. That's an argument for that. In addition, it must remain practically manageable for institutions. So I would like to join with the implementation practice. I would add that this can also be done responsibly because the law already provides that certain forms of involuntary care, namely medication, containment or any other form of restriction of freedom of movement, can only be done after the consent of a doctor, because there is always a medical judgment when it comes to whether that is actually justified. That's one. The second point concerns supervision. Are you sure this is justified? Is the process of involuntary care really going through in a good way? The Wzd doctor will always be involved in this. I'll be right back to the question of who that should be. The independent Wzd doctor supervises this. In this constellation, it is quite conceivable that it can also be carried out by someone with training at levels 3, 4 or 5, HBO or HBO-plus. I'd like to give a broad interpretation of the caretaker. That is also possible given the other security safeguards in the law. Then there's the outside expert. When is it really necessary? I'll outline what I think it was meant to be. Later, the Christmas tree was rigged a bit more. It may be that there is forced care and that after the first evaluation or the maximum period of six months it appears that this compulsion is still needed and that it is not really clear what needs to be done to scale down this compulsion. Then external expertise makes sense. The way things stand in the bill, hence my letter, is that any decision to impose coercion as part of the healthcare plan should involve an external expert. That seems to me to be a real job, and that is a waste of time, because we are far too busy in the care sector. It is not necessary, because multidisciplinary decisions can also be made within an institution. That does not always require an external expert. It was asked: is that another army of people who are going to eat from it very well? I hope not, too. The suggestion you make is extremely practical and right, namely: let it be someone from another institution. So yes, external expertise and a critical, independent four-eyed look from the outside, but please not another separate profession. That won't be necessary at all. You can also invoke the external expertise of fellow institutions. In fact, that is actually better, because they have more experience in the same setting. I will put the amendment in place in this way. Then there is a third point: the Wzd doctor. It came into the law through a Parliamentary-wide SP amendment. I am very happy with that figure, because I think it has made the law better. Mr Schnabel asked how I value that. I think it's made the law better. Greater equality in legal protection has been achieved between the GGZ target group and the FG and PG target group. I think this is an added value. In addition, an independent look has been organised. That too, I think, is an added value. But I also see a practical objection, which the field has strongly pointed out. In disability care, for example, there is often no relationship between the client and a doctor at all, because there is no medical problem at all. Also the coercive measures will have no medical background at all but above all a educational background. The question is whether it is possible to appoint someone from another profession, for example someone who is already in charge of the final responsibility for care in that institution and who is a social welfare psychologist. Can it be pointed out in the position of Wzd-doctor? It's a bit like the medical director, but then copied to the other sectors. I think that would be a very good solution, because it improves the content. But, and I hope I may say that before there is any interruption, I would like it to be someone who is subject to disciplinary law. I also think that this has been the background to the appointment of that Wzd doctor in the House of Representatives. It is not only a question of ensuring independence but also of ensuring that someone is actually subject to disciplinary law. That's why I would think: a gz psychologist is BIG registered and therefore subject to disciplinary law. An orthopedagogic eye is not just that, because it is governed by private law and not by public law. So I would say that an orthopedagogic eye can, but only if it has actually been added to the BIG by 1 January 2020. That is the intention, but if that is not feasible then we should not do it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u81	My concern is as follows. If you look further at the law to find out in which articles this figure appears in, whether it is the doctor, the orthopedagogic or the EZ psychologist, then it does not matter so much as the medical director's aspect is rather dominant. That is a person who is also covered by the law, which does not even have to be employed by the institution, but can be involved on a contractual basis, and who is in fact given proper control over where the institution's resources are deployed, without being paid for by a supervisory board. That council can say: what are you doing, we're just short? In fact, he doesn't have to care. My feeling is that with this figure, which has been inserted along the side road, a very difficult situation is created, which leads to an internal policy dispute in such an institution about who is in charge here and who has what to say about what? It is no longer just about the treatment plans, the care steps and I do not know what all of them are, but it is about the management and policy of the institution itself. I thought that just went too far, just put it simply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u82	I hope that in the implementation practice there will not be very often a choice for people who are being flown in externally. Of course, there would be a great risk of this if only doctors were allowed to take up this position. Because doctors aren't always in the service of such an institution. The question is also whether it would be effective to put a doctor on the payroll to the mere fact that an institution simply needs a Wzd doctor. At the same time, disability care institutions often employ someone who is also ultimately responsible for the quality of care policies. If you could allow that to coincide, you have greatly increased the practical feasibility. That's one. The second point is that Mr Schabel felt that the position of medical director was a little too dominant in those articles. It is, of course, good if such a person actually supervises the individual casuism that passes by. Has the Law on care and compulsion been applied in an adequate manner? As well as at all on the policy of involuntary care as part of quality care within an institution. I think that's justified. Is it then wise to give that external form? I wouldn't choose it as an institution. I don't think that's convenient. Is it against the law? No, neither is that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u83	Minister, I did not intend to go into the substance of this matter. I'm not going to, because there are a lot of pros and cons. You have said that you have been approached by the field and taken this step to bring about a substantive change around the Wzd doctor. But do you want to be well informed about the width of the field? This is what I say to my colleagues. We are now having a discussion that is going to be held on the other side of the road, and then we are going to come back to us again. It's kind of hard for me, though. In procedural terms, it is our role as First Chamber to consider the whole legislative process a little more. The fact that we are then going to discuss very extensively the narrowing of the Wzd-doctor and which officials should be included is a little strange to me. I just wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u84	I get it. In order to respond to that, perhaps I should explain why I chose to do so. I've had the same hesitation. In reading these laws, I saw a number of imbalances in the balance between strengthening legal protection and being aware of its feasibility. Yes, I've had a number of conversations in the field. I thought this was pretty broad, but I'll look up all the width that's conceivable. I thought they had a point here. At the same time, I understand why the House of Representatives added the figure of the Wzd doctor. I really think that the law itself has become better, but it must remain practically manageable. Then I had this route in my head. Then there's the next question. Should I have surprised you with this day after the examination of this bill because it should be separate from this or, in the context of a transparent legislative process, was the First Chamber also served by adjustments to the proposal that is now before us, which is already in our minds and which we will certainly do, albeit on the proper route? Of course, I do not ask for any kind of agreement with the proposals I have yet to make. The President has also pointed this out to me, and I am quite right to do so. And yet I did not want to abstain from you because of a transparent legislative process. That's just an explanation. For the rest, they are also tastes of what is best in a particular situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u85	With Mr Don's encouragement in mind, I will be very careful, but I would ask that, in this consideration for the various target groups, we still look very closely at the distinction between the medical aspects and the cases in which they do not matter. For one target group this is farther apart, while for other target groups the co-morbidity is much greater. That is a nice theme for the elaboration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u86	Sure. Moreover, the law provides that medical treatment can only be performed after the consent of a doctor. So the law simply provides for that. In fact, if this law had not provided for it, then the BIG Act had already provided for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u87	Now that the debate on the future adjustments is going to take place, I would like to add a very small amount of money. In December, the Minister sent a letter on the workability of the Roadmap. He focuses, as he has just explained, on limiting the involvement of external experts in that roadmap. My question is to broaden that further. I am looking in particular at the suggestions of the Centre for Consultation and Expertise, which says that a distinction should be made between the different forms of involuntary care and the like, so that more tailor-made work can be offered. Is the Minister prepared to make these alternatives to such a roadmap transparent before he comes forward with his next legislative amendment and, if so, to inform the Chambers of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u88	I think there's two different things going on right now. I think this could be an alternative to hiring external expertise. I said that I wanted to fill this out as practically as possible. As far as I am concerned, this is more likely to be done by another institution. I do not so much believe in another independent agency that should do this. In addition, you asked whether we should not have an alternative to the roadmap, for example in the form of professional guidelines, and whether we should not allow the roadmap to enter into force if there are no professional guidelines. This does not seem to me to be very beneficial to the predictability of legal protection. That's one. Two: a professional directive, I think, does not come up with anything quite different than the road map we are proposing here. In a way, this is providing professional guidance in going through a number of steps when there is coercion. Three: the ECHR really requires legal protection at the level of the law, so that it can also be reviewed by the courts, albeit afterwards in this case. We just talked about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u89	Clear. I also hesitated because I wondered if this was the right time, but it was still about the future and the steps you are going to take in the context of a forthcoming legislative change. I would like to add a few words to the very good suggestions of the CCE for customization. That is something different from the road map that has now been proposed. That is why I ask the simple question whether it is not conceivable that, before you come up with a legislative amendment, you should map out the alternatives and inform the Chambers accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u90	Excuse me, chairman, for my cough. You can still be a minister of health, but the flu is not passed by ministers either. I hesitate to answer that question with yes. Of course, I always want to involve everyone and everything in improving proposals, but if it is your intention to do something about the legal protection created by that step-by-step plan, I honestly do not feel very much about it, because I am sure that I am going to have a complicated conversation with a number of other groups in your Chamber and also with myself, because I really think that legal protection can be improved. So, no, I honestly don't feel that much about getting rid of that, but other suggestions for improvement are always very welcome. I'll see if I can answer any questions about this. Yes, Mrs Bikker asks why these two elements were chosen in internal supervision by the healthcare provider and by the Wzd doctor. Actually, that came after the Wzd doctor had been amended in the Lower House. I also think that this is okay, because these two responsibilities are, of course, always on the agenda. The Wzd-doctor or the physician-director has the position to see if it has gone well in this individual case. The care institution has the quality of the care to guarantee, of which involuntary care is a part. In fact, you could also say that this is congruent with how this is arranged in the ggz and the forced ggz. In that respect, I would think that this would be feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u91	As the Minister says, it does sound congruent with the Wvggz, but if I get the article of the law right, it says very clearly that each care plan discusses who does what in that internal control. There was my concern: in the fact that this happens per care plan. I fully follow the broad line and I can imagine it, but with "per care plan" I was concerned that one institution could give a completely different interpretation to the other institution and that one patient could be different from the other. That is unclear, and I would like to hear the Minister say something clearer about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u92	I think so, but now I'm going to fill it in too. That's the way it was chosen because of course the design of the care is also different. Because you used to have only institutional care and now can also shape ambulatory care and coercion, the design of the supervision of how such coercion and measures are carried out may also differ. That can indeed vary from one client to another. That is why it is important to include this in the healthcare plan. I think this is the background to that, but I will test that well, and if it's different from what I'm saying now, I'll come back to it tomorrow. The next and the last actor in this block about who all have to watch the steps is the client confidant. Mr Don and Mr Van Dijk in particular have asked questions about this. Mr Don actually asked why you would not simply opt for rural funding, because we do so in other sectors too, and because that is actually much more appropriate and in this case more independent. I actually agree with him. I would like to reconsider the line taken by the previous cabinet, which is also reflected in the previous answers to the questions, because I think it is indeed wise to opt for national funding. Moreover, Article 57 does not need to be amended; I say this in the direction of Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u93	Fine, thank you, Minister. I was given that question, of course. If you would like to fund this according to the analogy of the patient confidence person nationwide, please. How do you feel about the organizational structure? What's that supposed to look like in the field?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u94	I'd think you'd have a nationwide funding and then you'd do the purchase yourself by health care office. Of course, there are several providers for that. You'd have to go to one organization, and I don't necessarily tend to. I would think: one national financing, which we are not going through the rate towards the institutions, but which is a separate flow of funding. But the purchase of that work must be done by the health offices. More importantly, you made a suggestion when you referred to the project on the further development of the function of the client confidant. I would indeed like to continue with that. I think we will have to get to work on the job requirements that we are going to set for that client confidant and that we are going to record at AMvB, but also with the quality, so with a kind of quality framework for the client confidant, so that we actually have an equal level of what we can expect from client confidants all over the country. By the way, it can then be carried out by different providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u95	Then you deviate from the structure that exists around the patient confidants, who are nationally organized and nationally funded. That is an excellent system, at least according to the information I have. Why do you deviate from that structure? Why don't you take over that structure by analogy with the confidant?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u96	We started on the other hand: the funding runs through the institution's rate and it is left to the institution to hire a client confidant. I would think that this shape is best suited to what the field can handle and to how the field develops. But let me assure you that I will look very carefully at what would be the best organizational structure and come back to that. I can do that separately, but I can do that on the next occasion when we come to the subject. I'd like to rethink the best form of organization. In any case, I think it is important, and that was also your point, that funding should be decoupled from the institutions, because it guarantees independence in a good way. The follow-up step is indeed: what will become the professionalisation hit? In that respect, I very much agree with you that you need to get that professionalisation hit on a high, national standard. The third is: what is the best form of organisation in this respect? In that order, I'd like to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u97	Finally, Mr. Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u98	Thank you, Minister. The funding is clear. The professionalization, the framework is clear. And the form of organisation must be supportive of that. You made a clear commitment that you will return to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u99	Yes. Mr. Chairman. I think I've come to the end of this block. I'm going to the third block now, about feasibility and implementation. Members have rightly asked a number of serious questions about this. In fact, all the groups have done so. This is a pretty far-reaching law. These are pretty far-reaching laws, you should say. Since the legislative process has been going on for a long time, we have, of course, considered whether it would be possible, feasible to complete the implementation on, for example, 1 January 2019. This would apply in particular to the compulsory ggz Act. This has been called for for a long time, including people confused in the context of the approach. That law would provide so much more opportunities for the field to provide appropriate care. In view of all that needs to be done in the field, I would like to say this to Mrs Oomen in particular, who asked rather explicitly about the timetable........................................................................................................................................................................................... If we start writing the AMvBs now, we'll be done with the AMvBs by the summer. I was also planning to make an adaptation law. I hope it can be submitted to the House of Representatives by the summer. This makes the implementation time from the moment it is really clear, shorter than six months for the institutions. That's really irresponsible. We shouldn't do that. The date of implementation of these two laws will therefore, as far as we are concerned, be 1 January 2020. I will therefore try to get the Adaptation Act to enter into force at that time. Thus, at the time of the entry into force of those laws, there is really complete clarity. Let's get back to the point I just made: the gz-psychologist could do it at once. But if we are also going to identify the orthopedagogic eye as a potential Wzd doctor, then only if the amendment of the BIG Act has been implemented by 2020. So I would say for those two laws: 1 January 2020. That's doable. At the same time, however, this requires a great deal of work; let us not underestimate that. The Forensic Care Act, to which Mr Dekker will be able to go into more detail in a moment, can be addressed earlier, at least most of it: as of 1 January 2019. This does not apply to the provisions which focus on the continuity of care. This does not mean that there will be no continuity of care until then, but a number of provisions can only come into effect a little later because of their consistency, in particular the compulsory ggz Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u100	I think that most of us are very pleased that there is room for quietly implementing those difficult laws and giving practice the opportunity to respond to them. Then it is known what will be about the content of the law. The consultations around the AMvBs can then also run. I would like to return to what you said earlier about the evaluation. You spoke very strongly about "after the evaluation." One of the points I raised in my speech is correct: take advantage of the opportunities available to use the things that come out of it during the evaluation process to implement in, for example, an AMvB, so that the practice in this respect remains close to what the practice can do. Of course, this will only be real if the law is implemented. That can also be done on a trial basis. The Forensic Care Act has actually been in practice for a long time. This means that we also have experience with it and that these experiences may be used a little more than hitherto to ensure that the implementing provisions are exactly in line with what can be done in practice. This also helps to increase the acceptance of these yet complex laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u101	I very much agree with you on that. Let me just make it clear how I see it. The actual date of implementation of these two laws is 1 January 2020. The date of introduction of the Forensic Care Act is 1 January 2019, for the most part. The adaptation law, with some improvements on the feasibility of the law, I would like to have it submitted to the Chamber by the summer. It will also have to start on 1 January 2020. Mr Dercksen asked: will there be a law of sweeping or something? I honestly don't expect that. These practical adjustments are introduced into the Adaptation Act. For the rest, most will be captured in the AMvBs. An AMvB is made by law, but it contains a lot of implementing decisions, one might say. They are now before us for consultation. I hope to have them in practice around the summer, so that we have an implementation time of one and a half years for the actual design of the law. I think that's a good time for the field. At the same time, and I think this is very positive from the discussions I have had with the field so far, I see that implementation practice is actually beginning to behave in accordance with the legislation that will be adopted. I think this is very useful. This also brings me back to a question raised by the SGP in particular: should you not continue to vote on these legislative proposals until the Adaptation Act is also in place? Please don't, I'd like to suggest. We are going to do that adaptation law, but you have to clarify the field: we're going to implement, this is what it's going to be, you're going to prepare for it! Then you will see what Mr Schnabel says, namely that implementation practice, which is actually already practiced and in anticipation of effective entry into force, is beginning to join the new legal framework from 1 January 2020. So as far as I am concerned, we are voting on these laws. We are dealing with the Adaptation Act separately, but I have also tried today to make it as clear as possible what is in it and why, so that the implementation practice can take that into account. I really think the field is waiting for clarity from us. In my view, that is the most important thing about implementation and implementation, with one exception, namely evaluation. Several groups have asked a number of questions about what should be included in that evaluation. Some of these questions are on the subject of Mr Blokhuis, but I will be happy to answer some of them. That evaluation will be two years after its entry into force. Mr Schnabel called it so beautiful "action research," I believe. I think you're even gonna write that with a "k." But that is very good: you want an implementation practice that is really reflective of the legal regime you would like. That is also what Mrs Barth mentioned a little earlier. Such a legal regime is, of course, always somewhat in motion. It is never a codification for eternity; at most it is often an improvement of the current bill. And it takes a long time for you to actually come up with it, and that may take a while, but actually it's always moving, because it's about dilemmas in the implementation practice. That is why you should want to do that evaluation in 2022, starting from the day of the actual introduction on 1 January 2020. These are a number of subjects, which I have already mentioned a little bit. Are these two legal regimes practical and manageable, or would one legal framework have added value, and would even a more congruent procedure have added value? We have just discussed this and it is an important issue in that evaluation. The second is the administrative burden: are they manageable or can they really go down, without any legal protection? That's the second evaluation question. The third evaluation question, which I have just mentioned, concerns the tension over which law prevails, which law prevails, and whether it leads to complexity in the implementation practice or between-walk-and-ship or locker-to-wall cases. That's a third element. A fourth element has been asked by the VVD and by D66: what is the added value of that figure of the Wzd doctor? I would like to add: has it been made feasible with these adjustments? And then Mrs Bikker asked about the healthcare plan: does that not lead to too much legalisation of the care process? I do not think so, by the way, but this is a good question for us to want to include in this evaluation. This is the case with regard to the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u102	Mr. Chairman. Now I'm a little confused again. I had the conviction that the Minister had just promised me that the evaluation would also look at the culture of forced care in the Wzd, thinking for people, taking over their lives; with the best intentions, but still. I did not hear the Minister mention that in his five points for evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u103	Excuse me, ministers may also forget a point. Yes, I did say that. So I should have recapitulated six points here. Indeed, that culture of taking it out of its hands is certainly part of that. I come now to the block with the poetic name "Other."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u104	I had asked another question about the evaluation, but perhaps it will come back to Secretary of State Blokhuis: is the cabinet prepared to evaluate the law every five years, similar to the process used in the BOPZ Act, after the first evaluation? Under the BOPZ Act, this has had enormous added value. The BOPZ Act has been reviewed for the first time after two years or three years. That first evaluation actually indicated that it was far too short. They were such big changes in the field, and when you put the temperature in the water after two years, you can see how the implementation and implementation have gone through, but not how it works in practice. Under the BOPZ Act, this became clear only at the second evaluation, after seven to eight years. That is why, after the first evaluation, I thought it would be a good idea to look at it every five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u105	So you mean five years from 2022? The evaluation will then be in 2027. I think that makes sense. And every five years from that point on. That seems to me to be a very useful suggestion, also for the reason you have often indicated, namely that this implementation practice and the content of care continue to evolve. It's really not just finished. It may well be that after seven years you are prepared to draw conclusions that you cannot draw on the basis of the evaluation after two years. So I think it would be a very useful addition. Mr. Chairman. I'll get to the other block. It's just a bunch of paperwork in here. It's like care. The first question I could not put elsewhere was Mr Van Dijk's question, namely whether I can confirm that it is contrary to the Wzd when coercion is applied to euthanasia in people with dementia. Euthanasia is not a concern in the sense of the Law care and coercion, so the Law care and coercion does not see that. Exercising euthanasia is not in accordance with a responsible implementation practice of euthanasia. Whether it is justified is always reviewed by the RTEs, the Regional Review Committees Euthanasia. If those judgements that the due diligence requirements are not met are one of the due diligence requirements, the RTE may submit them to the Public Prosecutor's Office or to the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u106	Clear. I mentioned the cases that are also described in the evaluation of the euthanasia law, where medication is administered to prevent people from resisting euthanasia. I mentioned the example of sedating medication in the apple sauce and in the coffee. You're getting fucked up and your struggle against euthanasia is made impossible. I'm assuming that at least this doesn't tolerate the law of care and compulsion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u107	No, it can't be seen as care under the Law of care and coercion. The Law of care and compulsion does not see that. This is about euthanasia. Then there is the question of whether this is a responsible application of euthanasia. That's tested by the RTEs. Every case that is reported comes by and is judged on "calling" or "not asking." If the case raises a question, a multidisciplinary committee will consider it. It may be that it finds that implementation has been careless. I do not want to go into more detail about the exact case, because it is very difficult to describe it in three directions. But if the committee finds that there is no responsible execution, this can be submitted to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Then there is Mrs De Bruijn's question as to whether there could be an inconsistency between the Law on compulsory ggz and the Law on care and coercion and the Civil Code when it comes to curatorship and mentoring. As far as we are concerned, that is not the issue. The Civil Code expressly states that the powers of the mentor and the curator are to be exercised unless the different laws and the BOPZ apply. The law on compulsory ggz and the Wzd gives rise to something else. This derogation from the scheme is explicitly included in the BOPZ, through the same law in which the mentoring was introduced into the BW. So there's no discrepancy between the two laws. Mrs De Bruijn asked about the risk of falling and the serious disadvantage. It says that the explanatory memorandum states that fall risk is not a serious disadvantage. Can the Minister explain how the health care provider should explain the criterion? This means that fall risk in itself should not always be seen as a serious disadvantage. At the same time, fall risk can indeed be seen as a serious disadvantage. So not all cases of a possible fall risk can always qualify as a serious disadvantage. Older people are by definition at greater risk of falling. Moreover, the risk of falling does not decrease but increases if older people do not move enough. The assessment of this will therefore always require a professional judgement. Can it be seen as a serious disadvantage in this case? In any case, there is no question that fall risk is categorically excluded from the qualification "serious disadvantage."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u108	I welcome this nuance and the Minister's view of it that way. I have read it in several places in the explanatory statement. There it was much more absolute than how you say it now. I would therefore like to make it clear that you are indeed giving room for this nuance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u109	This is part of the legal history. Then a question from Mr Schnabel about who can act as an applicant for a psychogeriatric placement for a client who has no family or other data subjects and has no permanent residence or residence. Look, the CIZ will eventually have to arrange a court-ordered admission, but any doctor can notify the CIZ of the request to arrange it. A general practitioner can do that and a street doctor can do that, for example with clients without a permanent place of residence or a permanent place of residence. Any kind of doctor can arrange that through the CIZ. There is therefore no restriction on this. Mr Schnabel also asked: 'This is actually more of a question of implementation' if we are not too detailed in the implementing decisions that now end up in the AMvBs. I think that is a valid point. Let me put it this way: I am going to keep my finger on the pulse very carefully to see whether the administrative burden and the degree of detail that it entails do not work properly in the implementation practice. I am more than willing to delete cases, but that goes until we undermine legal protection. Then I find that the AMvB does not give sufficient substance to the law as it is intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u110	You are now talking about administrative burdens. That's one point. Of course that plays a role. When I read the concept of AMvBs, I was shocked by all the details in it. I have also stated in my speech that I think it is particularly important what the consequences are for the relations in aid, one might say. It may, for example, be that a caregiver can actually do something. I will not say that he is allowed to do what the caregiver is not allowed to do. Of course, that puts the relationship under pressure. If you look again at the AMvB, it is also very important to realize what that looks like in practice. So not how difficult it is to record that, but how it looks; what happens in practice? If the aid worker is in such a situation and has to say "no, ma'am or mister, I can't do this or that, but your son or your daughter can do that," that's very nasty. In the end, that works very perversely on a good aid relationship. That was my point. I hope that you will also consider the final text. Let me say again: look at the extent of these texts. These are aid workers and not people who want to read dozens of pages of text all day about what they should and should not do. It must be clear and clear to them. That was my second point in the speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u111	Clear. Thanks, too. I'd like to admit I'd like to look through those glasses, too. By the way, Mr. Ganzevoort also raised that point about family care. I think, quite frankly, that, from the point of view of aid, where there is currently no possibility of an outpatient compulsion, it is almost logical that it should occur now and then. In fact, I think that is what the proposed regulation is about to call it back. A paramedic can sometimes be tempted to say, "Oh, I can't do it, but the caretaker can, so do it." At the same time, I understand your point. The degree of prescription in the AMvBs should be feasible for implementation practice, not only in terms of administrative burden, but also in terms of detail. I'm definitely gonna look at that with those glasses. It is not for nothing that the law provides for a suspension procedure. I would therefore like to invite you to join me in watching whether we are doing the right things in these AMvBs and pulling me on my jacket when you think it is so much more detailed that the implementation practice has not been helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u112	At this point I have another question about the role of the general practitioner. In other words, who is the caretaker in home care situations? Is that indeed the general practitioner, or should the home care organisations employ people to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u113	That just depends. If a form of involuntary care is needed and a home care organisation provides care for the neighbourhood, it may do so itself. The Wzd doctor will have to be realized separately. Then again the question is whether the organisation wants and can do the same. Not all general practitioners will want and be able to do it either, because it requires that you can actually supervise and you assume a substantive judgment. So it's very much the question. It depends very much on the implementation practice. It's hard for me to give a generic answer. Mrs Strik asked a question about the ratification of the Protocol to the Convention. I'll have to come back to that later. I would like to refer to the letter sent by Secretary of State Van Rijn on 30 January 2017. In that letter, the Cabinet set out first to do the optional protocol with the IVESCR and then to consider whether it offers added value to implement those other two optional protocols. So I'd like to come back to that at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u114	I support the fact that the Minister has also promised to investigate the coherence between the various optional protocols, and that this would also be submitted to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u115	So in the context of the adoption of the first protocol?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u116	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u117	In this context, the Council of State will indeed be invited to consider the impact of the optional protocol on the national legal order. That is why I shall come back to it at a later date, namely on that occasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u118	Perhaps the Minister will be able to comment on the state of ratification of the other optional protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u119	Yeah, I can do that tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. That, I believe, brings me to the end of the first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u120	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the First Chamber for their contribution in the first term. I was impressed by your involvement, expertise and interest. It is an incredibly complex, complex and quite moving matter. It's poignant business for people who have something to do with it. It's poignant and far-reaching. This is also evident from the contributions of several MPs who have also been able to report things from their own experience, which impresses me. I would also like to congratulate Mrs De Bruijn on her maiden speech at the beginning of my term. I would also like to point out, which I do not think anyone here has done yet, that it is Blue Monday today. As you may know, Blue Monday is the most depressed day of the year. Why do I say that? Tonight the Depression Gala will also be held in Den Bosch. Perhaps some of you have had an invitation to do so. At least I did, but I couldn't go there because I was called by the Senate to defend the mandatory ggz Act. I have already reported this, but with the handling of the present legislative proposals, the world does not stand still; in Den Bosch they celebrate. I really like that we have a Depression gala.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u122	Thank you for the announcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u123	Mr. Chairman. I am glad that we are here today dealing with the law on compulsory mental health care in connection with the Law on care and coercion and the Law on forensic care. I will try to answer the questions of the Chamber in three blocks. First, let me give you a general introduction. Then I come to the content of the bill. I would like to dwell on the implementation and, finally, on a number of other questions. The purpose of the Law is to provide better appropriate care, appropriate to both the nature of the care and the time at which it takes place. The compulsory ggz Act lays down the criteria, principles and procedure for the application of care to persons with serious mental problems and, as a result, serious harm to themselves or to others. It is important that compulsory care is always an ultimatum remedium: only if there is no other way. I think all the spokesmen have rightly pointed this out. Early warning should attempt to use timely care to reduce problems and prevent mandatory care. Care at local level is of great importance. Several spokesmen have also pointed this out, and I will go into it further later. In this context, Mr Schnabel has rightly referred to interference as an important phenomenon. Others, I think, used that term as well. If compulsory care is needed, then as short as possible. For clients with mental impairment, with as a result a risk of serious harm to themselves or their environment, the current BOPZ Act is limited, too limited in its possibilities and does not fit in with the outpatientisation of care. The current BOPZ Act focuses on the forced admission of the client and not the treatment. With the law mandatory ggz this changes. This law focuses on the treatment of the client and no longer on the place where he gets care. The link between forced admission and treatment is loosened in the law on compulsory ggz. That makes this law personal instead of locational. Forced admission is not the starting point but only one of the forms of compulsory care, the starting point being that the care must be provided as much as possible in an outpatient manner. The law on compulsory ggz, as well as the law on care and compulsion, has considerably more possibilities to offer customization. This is desirable because the need for care, the severity of the disadvantage and the required level of security of the client may vary over time. Therefore, this bill allows for a multitude of forms of care and security, in which the form of care, the degree of compulsion and the level of security can be tailored to the specific care needs of the client at that time. I deliberately choose my wording in order care, degree of compulsion, level of security. The law mandatory ggz is not a security law. Security may be a condition for providing good care, but it's about care. We can therefore conclude that the Law on compulsory ggz offers more treatment options than the BOPZ Act. In addition, the mandatory ggz Act also strengthens the legal status of the client. This will give the client the opportunity to draw up a plan of action to prevent mandatory care. It is laid down by law that his preference should be taken into account in the case of compulsory care and all forms of forced care should be subject to prior judicial review. All shapes. In the current legislation, only the compulsory pre-inclusion is subject to judicial review. Not only the position of the client is strengthened, also the position of the family gets more attention. All the spokesmen have rightly pointed this out. That's important because family members are often the first to see that someone isn't doing well. For example, the family is now given the legal opportunity to give an opinion on the care plan. Mr Schnabel asked an interesting and interesting question about this: how do you weigh the importance between the family confidant on the one hand and the patient confidant on the other? In response, I would like to say that the patient confidant is there for the patient, as the word suggests. He should assist them throughout the process of compulsory care. This concerns both the preparation, implementation and termination of compulsory care. The family confidant is precisely there for the family and neighbors relevant to the continuity of care. This helps the family by, for example, informing, advising and assisting them in complaint procedures. Both have compulsory ggz free access to the data subject without the consent of others, but the family confidant can only speak to the data subject if the data subject expressly agrees. I think Mr Schnabel has a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u124	I noticed that. I give the floor to Mr Schnabel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u125	My point was this. When we look at the role of the patient confidant, according to the regulations in that area and the practice of almost 30 years now, the patient confidant is standing next to the patient and whatever the patient wants, even if it actually seems very unreasonable, also in the eyes of the patient confidant. That could be very contrary to what the family wants. Even if the family doesn't do it out of self-interest, but with the idea "that's not good at all for our son or our daughter, or our father or mother, that this or that happens, that he wants it." Both have access to the same subject matter, both have access to the patient, both have access to the pieces that it is about, but they are in a very different position. Is the family confidant going to play the same role; that he really, whatever the family wants, has to go along with it and help? Soon you will feel that this may be a conflict where you might well say that the family may have the patient's best interests in mind, but that the patient has no sense of a serious disadvantage he is doing to himself. In the relationship between these two confidants, that conflict will then come about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u126	Yeah, I get the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u127	So that's really a little bit different than you just suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u128	I understand your question very well. I would also like to say something about this, but you are in favour of your further question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u129	Through the chairman, Mr. Blokhuis, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u130	Mr. Chairman. I understand Mr Schnabel's question. If I do him well, this may cause tension when the path of applying for a care authorisation is chosen. Then, of course, it is up to the judge to consider the various interests involved. It is conceivable that the family confidant has a different position in this than the patient confidant. Then it's up to the judge to consider what importance he's letting prevail in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u131	Yes, that is the end of such a development, but my concern is whether in practice, in an institution where care is provided, this will not lead to a very unpleasant and difficult situation for aid. There are then two spoke spears for two very different positions. That will not always be the case, but I am concerned about the situation in which it is happening. What is the aid supposed to do? I suspect that we still need to think about the form that that should take. So it was not so much a question I asked, but rather a more detailed explanation of the position of both figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u132	I think Mr Schnabel is right to raise a point. I also think we agree that in practice it can be predicted that it will occur. For the care provider, for the care provider, this can lead to complex situations in which one person of trust is directly opposite the other person of trust. Then you are not yet on the route to a care authorisation, but also then the aid worker can be embarrassed, because it has to choose. I think this will occur in practice, but let us hope that it happens as little as possible. Let us hope that the interests of the patient confidant run parallel to those of the family confidant. Unfortunately, in practice, it will be different in some cases. Mr. Chairman. The compulsory ggz Act is a law that is much better than the current BOPZ Act than the current BOPZ Act, in line with the current views on the provision of good care and the idea that the patient and his need for care are central. At the end of my general block, I would like to comment briefly on the context of the legislative proposal. In the media and also in politics there is increasing attention to people with confused behavior. All the spokesmen have spoken of this. That attention is justified, but care must be taken. These are vulnerable people who often need help in order to participate fully in society. In the media, the main focus is on incidents. I would say: unfortunately, we only read about things that are not going well. This makes sense in itself, but people with confused behaviour are also very often affected by people who are not dangerous and who do not cause nuisance. I am thinking of demented elderly people who are in a confused state on the streets. It is certainly important in this large category to stay away from stigmatisation and do justice to the specific different support needs of this group of people. I have put the word "stigmatization" in my mouth. Several spokesmen have drawn attention to this. As a ruler responsible for the ggz, I attach great importance to the fact that we are trying to get rid of stigmas in the ggz, for example by antistigma campaigns. Mrs Barth has also stressed this point. We are getting into a bit of trouble when the police say that people with confused behavior pose a greater threat than terrorists, or words of that kind. That's gonna get really complicated. As a cabinet, we sincerely and wholeheartedly strive to remove that stigma. In my opinion, that depends not only on people who are clients in the ggz, but also on professionals in the vein of "o, you work in the ggz." What's better than working with each other to counter that stigma? Mrs Barth specifically asked if I would continue to subsidise together without Stigma. The grant application is pending. We're gonna talk about it. You can certainly appeal to me to continue to support the fight against stigmas, the anti-stigma campaigns, without linking an organisation to them. You may remind me of this statement: we are going to pay attention to this in the year 2018. Mr. Chairman. This autumn, all municipalities or regions in the Netherlands will have a well-functioning, coherent approach for people with confused behavior. Mrs Wezel of the SP has asked what lead the cabinet takes in order to get this right. We are making serious work of this, even if only by naming the Switch Team Persons with Confused Behaviour, in which all relevant disciplines are represented, under the direction of Mr Onno Hoes. In doing so, we want to ensure that the links between the regions, between the partners in the regions and between the national and the local levels are properly established. It is very broad: on the switching team there are police, healthcare providers, municipalities and the Empire.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u133	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that the switching team will cease to exist in October this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u134	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u135	I would like to say to you that it will not be settled in the regions. Can you give us a look at how you look at that and what you expect to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u136	Mr. Chairman. Mr Don might have suspected that I would say something about that. I'd like to do that. I do not know if I am reassuring him with my words, but I wanted to add to this remark that the last report of the switching team, which dates from 5 October last, shows that a lot of good is happening. That has also been appointed by Mr Hoes cum suis, but the switching team also says that there is reason to call for a lot of action, because there is still a lot to be done. Maintaining the urgency and continued commitment of all concerned is a major necessity. As Secretary of State, I am also aware of this and I want to do something about it. I am also aware that the switching team will cease to exist. I am already considering how this should be followed up, because it may be that Mr Don is right and that it is not there in October. I said autumn 2018 on purpose. I bought a little time with that. But then it actually has to be, so there's still a lot to do. There is a Secretary of State here who is aware of the urgency of this, who also knows the local field well, and I think Mr Don is also speaking about it with the local field. I have the hope and expectation that the commitment of all parties will lead to a good approach in the autumn. I'm not saying it's gonna be perfect for everything, but there's gonna be a good approach for people with confused behavior. Mr. Chairman. Mr Derksen asked a question in relation to the subject of people with confused behaviour. I do not know whether Mr Derksen has done so, however, about 'confused persons'. I myself try to speak consistently about 'persons with confused behavior', because that is really a bit more sympathetic. I'm just gonna give that a hint. Mr Derksen asked the question where there is a distinction between the different laws in terms of confused persons. The answer to this is: a "person with confused behavior" is not a legal concept. It's a general description of someone you're worried about because of their mental health. That does not alter the fact that a person with confused behavior may be someone with a mental disorder within the meaning of the Law mandatory ggz, someone who may cause serious harm as a result of that disorder to himself or to another person. The same applies to a substantial part of that group. A person with confused behavior can also be a person with a psychogeriatric disability or an intellectual disorder, which as a result causes a serious disadvantage to himself or another within the meaning of the Law care and coercion. Both legislative proposals clearly define which persons are covered. That is my answer to that question. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Barth also asked a few questions about people with confused behaviour. Firstly, her specific question was: what about transport? I would like to say the following. Like the police, I share the concern about the fact that there are not yet good alternatives everywhere, good fitting transport for people with confused behavior. I also say that this must be done quickly, because nothing is more fun for people with confused behavior who are not criminal than that they are taken over by people in uniform and carried away in a police car. That's the worst start you can imagine in treating people with mental illness, for example. I know that from stories from very close to the local level where I live and other aldermen I look to the right next to me will know the same stories. That's a very bad start. It's gonna have to be settled soon. The police want to make faster progress in this, just like I do. A lot of action is being put into that too. Regional meetings are organised from the switching team in order to ensure that those responsible are well informed. Resources have been made available for pilots with appropriate transport. In my letter of 24 November to the House of Representatives, in response to the interim report of the switching team of 5 October, I indicated what I am doing with the parties to encourage alternative forms of replacement transport. I promised the House of Representatives that I would inform her of this by 2 February at the latest, and now that specific questions come out of the First Chamber, it seems to me that it is not wrong to send this letter to the First Chamber in cc too. Mrs Barth also asked a question about the E33 reports. I can say a lot of words about this, but I would like to say briefly that, as a result of all the fuss about the E33 reports at the beginning of the Christmas church, I took the initiative to talk to the police officers concerned, together with the Minister of Justice. We are therefore going to address this issue of the E33 reports. The same applies to police involvement in the outpatientisation process and the police's vision of it. Mrs Barth has also asked intrusive questions about this. As far as I am concerned, this is also an item on the agenda for the same debate. I hope that answers these questions adequately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u137	Not entirely, Mr President, because I specifically asked whether the cabinet would also be willing to consider adapting, nuancing and making that code more specific, so that you could get clearer differences upstairs. Now it's a storage tank, as the Secretary of State himself pointed out. This is unnecessarily stigmatizing for people who are only very sick and therefore have confused behavior. Nor does it seem to me effective for the point that the police are undoubtedly interested in, namely making the streets safer. As long as that code remains such a storage bin, you cannot respond effectively to notifications that come in on the basis of that code because that code doesn't actually say what kind of problem is going on at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u138	I understand Mrs Barth's point very well and I agree with her that the general use of the term'reports' already causes a lot of pollution in the debate. That is precisely why I want to talk to the police with the Minister of Justice, who is primarily about these E33 notifications. That is the reason for discussing this issue with him, but I will certainly do so with a sympathetic attitude in relation to the question put by Mrs Barth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u139	That's very nice to hear. In conclusion, I would like to ask the Secretary of State, because I understand that he would like to talk to the Minister who is not here today about whether he would like to send us a letter if that discussion took place with both the police officers concerned and with the Minister of Justice and Security, so that we as a Chamber can keep our finger on the pulse and see how the development of the E33 code is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u140	I'll be happy to keep the Chamber informed by a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u141	I would like to remind the Secretary of State that alternatives to the E33 notifications by the Switch Team, the RIVM and another organisation are also being looked at at at the moment, so that people with confused behavior in our society can also be more nuanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u142	Great. Thank you for the addition, I say through the President to Mr Don, because that means that it is indeed pre-sorted that we may have to get rid of this system. Then I come to the question of how to regulate things at local level in relation to the problem of people with confused behavior. Mr Schnabel asked: does the Cabinet wish to make effective agreements with municipalities, police, ggz and primary care in the interests of the effectiveness of the Law on compulsory mental health care, which lead to less frequent recourse to the law? In general, the answer is 'yes', but I will focus on that. The main aim is to ensure that care and support for vulnerable people is organised in a coherent way. The Switch team stimulates good collaboration between different professionals. That is very broad, because we are also talking about issues such as debt relief, social support and ggz care. For example, it can also go through the national coverage network of project leaders. There is also a nationwide casuistic consultation, and we invest in spreading good examples. For example, the Empire also encourages this cooperation in the Langer Home support programme, which is primarily the responsibility of the Minister of VWS, the support programme Protected Living and Social Care, which I am primarily about, and the support of regional cooperation plans ggz and Work and Income. In addition, I have made available funds, 2 million, to invest in a better coherence between guidance, a WMO task, and treatment, a task arising from the Health Insurance Act. The aim of these additional resources is to experiment with different ways of improving coherence and to keep recourse to compulsory care as limited as possible. We're investing in the front. Finally, in this context. I hope to have reached a broad agreement on the Ggz before the summer as well with all the parties involved. That is a very heavy task, but I believe that this issue will be an item on the agenda as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u143	I have a question for the Secretary of State or his colleagues, because I do not know exactly who it belongs to. In this context, I had also asked a question about the target level. If we want to reduce the number of coercive measures, that actually applies to the different laws, but also to this issue, is there a picture of where we want to go? Are there any ideas about that? If we are going to monitor and evaluate, do we have any idea at some point whether or not it has led to a reduction in the number of coercive measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u144	This is a fair question, but I don't have a percentage in my head. The cabinet has not yet fixed a percentage. There are different movements to reduce the number of coercive measures. I will deal with this later in relation to a question from Mr Don. I think it is a good suggestion to link it with an ambitious goal. That's not going to be easy, by the way. As Mr Ganzevoort probably knows, there has been an upward trend so far. In order to bend it and even go towards reduction, you have to get quite a bit on board. We want to invest in that. For example, such a broad agreement ggz could be a vehicle to incorporate ambitious agreements. I want to bring that in seriously, but I do need the other parties to do that. I want to work for that, but it takes at least two to tango. The others have to move, but that's my bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u145	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. It takes two to tango, but you are the one who indicates the music and also sets the frames in that sense. It does help if the government not only indicates that it has an ambition, but also that it wants to achieve goals. This does not necessarily have to be a percentage, but we do want the evaluation to show what effect it has had.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u146	That is a fair question and the answer is yes. Mr. Chairman. I shall deal with harmonization. As I have just said, the compulsory ggz Act regulates the criteria, the principles and the procedure for how people with serious mental problems, with as a result serious harm to themselves or to others, can be treated against their will. At the request of the First Chamber, the legislative proposals are even more aligned and harmonised as far as possible. The recommendations of ZonMw, which carried out a thematic legislative review towards forced care, have been used. I would like to mention four examples of this harmonisation in my contribution. Firstly, in the legislative proposals, the key concepts are harmonised as much as possible, as well as the criterion of forced care. For example, in all three legislative proposals, the concept of "care" is now defined from the point of view of content and not from the point of view of funding, as was originally the case with two of the three legislative proposals, the Wzd and the Wfz. Secondly, the criterion for forced care has been harmonised. Both in the Wzd and in the compulsory ggz Act, the criterion is that there must be a risk of serious disadvantage for the client or for others. Many spokesmen have asked questions about this concept, very intrusive by Mr Don and Mrs Barth. Mrs Barth asked whether the Secretary of State could explain how the case law has evolved from the "danger" criterion to "serious disadvantage" that these two terms now essentially mean the same thing. I think that we should broaden the scope of this question because several Members of your Chamber have asked questions about the term'serious disadvantage'. I would like to emphasise in my contribution that this term does not mean a material extension to the original legislative proposal, nor to the hazard criterion under the BOPZ. Harmonisation of this term has taken place to emphasise that the criteria for imposing forced care on the basis of both legislative proposals are the same. The elements which constitute the serious disadvantage of the criterion are almost the same as those of the hazard criterion under the BOPZ Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u147	Maybe I'm getting ahead of what the Secretary of State wants to say, but I'm still trying to get it sharp. I call it serious disadvantage versus the hazard criterion. In my view, the hazard criterion is really linked to the BOPZ Act. That law is a recording law and not a health bill. Danger means you have to act on the basis of a psychiatric disorder through a rapture. If you want to apply further measures, you have to take sanctions. At severe disadvantage you talk much more about the personal situation of someone who, due to a disorder, is a disadvantage to themselves, but there is no connection to a recording. There is a possibility of compulsory care, although it is also a recording, but you can at least let go of a number of stages. A serious disadvantage in the home situation can mean something other than the hazard criterion from the BOPZ. In my view, this is not a way of aligning the concepts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u148	May I put a supplementary question to that effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u149	Yes, but you must press the button, otherwise we will not be able to hear you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u150	I would like to add my voice to this question. In the written exchange of views on this law, too, the government has repeatedly stressed that it does not seek to extend the concept in relation to danger to a serious disadvantage. Our impression of the BOPZ Act is that the hazard criterion is sometimes too narrow to provide people with, for example, the care they need. We were actually hoping that the serious disadvantage could provide an extension in order to give interference a good place. Since we hope so, I have formulated my question as I have formulated it. The government has stressed that it is in line with the case law of the BOPZ Act. The element that played very well at the start of the BOPZ Act was that danger was too narrow a criterion and was often translated into "life danger" in practice, which meant that almost no one was included at all, at least not people who needed meddling. At that time we saw a lot of people in the Netherlands sinking under the bridges. We don't see that anymore, so my feeling is that the danger criterion of the BOPZ Act must have developed almost in the case law towards broadening, otherwise it can't fit in with serious disadvantage...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u151	Can you come to a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u152	... and doesn't offer the space you should want to have in our opinion to provide people with the care they need to achieve a decent existence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u153	May I respond, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u154	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u155	I get the point of both of you. I hope I can give you an answer that will help you, even if there's no lawyer here before you. This can sometimes be useful in communication, but in terms of legal knowledge it becomes more complicated. I was working on a sentence, coupled with a secondary clause, when Mr Don interrupted me. I would like to say that the elements which make up the criterion of serious disadvantage are almost the same as the hazard criterion under the current law, the BOPZ Act, which is again a codification, which is the clause of case law developed under BOPZ. I think Mrs Barth's assessment is correct in saying that the interpretation of the term 'danger' has been somewhat stretched. I have the text of the law in front of me. The relevant Article 1.1 (2) (a), (b), (c) and (d) states what is meant by serious danger and what criteria must be met in order to qualify for the qualification serious disadvantage, both towards yourself and others. Yeah, that's pretty broad. It's about hurting yourself, but it's about hurting others. And in part c, for example, we are talking about the situation that the person with annoying behavior calls for rather multi-interpretable aggression from others. With a little imagination, if I don't give priority to someone in traffic or something like that, I might be allowed to record myself. I would like to say that by letting go of the term 'danger' and replacing it with'serious disadvantage', there is not such a narrow interpretation that there are very few titles to intervene. In that context, Mrs Barth talks about interference or other measures. At the same time, I would add that, contrary to what the name suggests, the law makes mandatory ggz have the aim of ensuring that we apply as little mandatory care as possible. However, the article I have just mentioned, which contains the definitions that fall under "serious disadvantage," does provide healthcare professionals and thus the courts with grounds for intervention and compulsory care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u156	I can feel it. I'm gonna have to think this through for myself. However, I do have another question for the Secretary of State. Make it clear to the field. Because the question that has come to our attention really lives with client organisations, with execution organisations, in psychiatry. So make it crystal clear what that means. Undoubtedly there will be reactions again; that only makes the concept clearer. But create clarity in this matter, so I ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u157	Mr. Chairman. I heard Mr Don's appeal very well. If these laws, hopefully in the short term, have been accepted by the First Chamber and we enter the entire implementation process, then of course there is good communication with those involved in the field. This also includes a good provision of information via websites and on paper about the interpretation of such terms. Mr. Chairman. The use of the term "serious disadvantage" was the second example of harmonisation. The third example is that complaints and compensation schemes have been harmonised in the Health and Force Act and the Compulsory ggz Act. Both legislative proposals have a staff member who monitors the quality internally. For the law mandatory ggz is that the medical director and for the law care and coercion is that the Wzd doctor. Fourthly, the connection between the compulsory ggz law and the law on care and coercion with the forensic care law has been improved, not only by the harmonisation of some key concepts and the definition of the forensic concept of care from the point of view of content, but also by the clarification of the procedure for the application of Article 2.3 of the Forensic Care Act. The role of the various actors in this process has now been further developed in the two other laws. The fact that the criminal court also has the power to impose authorisations following a criminal title makes this article an important contribution to improving the continuity of care. This is one of the common objectives of the three legislative proposals. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Oomen would have liked to have harmonised the terms 'client', 'patient' and 'involved'. I get that question. I have just indicated that we have tried to harmonise as much as possible. These terms have each kept their own existence in the different laws. I have mentioned four examples of harmonisation. I say to Mrs Oomen: in the first evaluation, we are also going to look specifically at this terminology. Mr. Chairman. I will deal with the criteria for imposing compulsory care. The compulsory ggz Act deals with people with serious mental problems, who, as a result of these problems, cause serious harm to themselves or others and do not themselves see the need for care. Mr Don asked how early action under the compulsory ggz Act is possible if the criteria remain the same. In response, I say that it is true that the criteria for the provision of forced care are the same. There must be a serious disadvantage that is likely to be caused by a psychiatric condition. Where caregivers can only take up the BOPZ Act in case of serious disadvantage and may not then start coercive treatment, unless it is absolutely necessary to avoid serious disadvantage, the Law requires that ggz has more instruments. This law is a treatment law and puts the treatment at the centre, at the place that is best for the patient, even if it is in an outpatient setting. Recording is no longer the only option to resort to coercive treatment. This means that earlier intervention is possible under the same criteria. Intervention at an earlier stage also offers more opportunities for lighter forms of intervention. For example, mandatory guidance by a FACT team that term will very well known to Mr.Don may then be a proportionate measure, while forced inclusion is not or is not yet. That is my answer to that question. Whether there is a mental disorder with a serious disadvantage as a result must always be tested by an independent psychiatrist. Thus, for example, confused behaviour or nuisances are not sufficient to fall under the criteria of this legislation. Mr. Chairman. I come to the procedure and the actors and to the content of the law. Many actors are involved in the imposition and implementation of mandatory care. There are two routes under which mandatory care can be imposed. One is a care authority issued by the judge. The other is a crisis measure imposed by the mayor. First of all, the care authorisation. An application must be prepared before a court. The Public Prosecutor has an important role to play in preparing it. He's got the applicant's role. The Public Prosecutor has been given this role in the law following the recommendations of the Hoekstra Commission, which examined the facts and circumstances of Els Borst's tragic death. The committee's recommendations suggested that the Public Prosecutor should be the person to perform this applicant's role, because compulsory care is at the border of criminal law, especially where there is forced admission and thus deprivation of liberty. Even if this is to protect the client and others, its preparation is a core task for the Public Prosecutor's Office. Safety can be an important consideration for forced care. The Hoekstra Committee's report underlines this. A disorder can also pose a threat to others or to social security. Because it may be about social security, the D.A. has a role to play. Several groups have raised pressing questions about safety. Firstly, Mr Van Dijk of the SGP asked a question about this. I do not know whether I should continue, Mr President, or whether Mrs Barth would like to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u158	Mrs. Barth hadn't gotten close enough to the interrupting microphone yet, so I waited a little longer. But if she has something to say, I'd like to say briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u159	I was just waiting for the Secretary of State to make a point, Mr. Chairman. I have indicated in my contribution that our initial concerns that the amendments to the mandatory ggz Act following the Hoekstra report would have been too much in the sphere of criminal law have been largely removed by the written reply in the reply. Because of what I hear the Secretary of State say now, those concerns come back. Indeed, the explanatory memorandum of the law states that the compulsory ggz Act is on the verge of criminal law. We have asked questions about this. Then, in the reply, the government said that it is mainly a treatment law and that we have to look at the angle of care, but now suddenly the edge of criminal law comes back. I am very sorry about that. That is why I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether it is precisely because the law makes compulsory ggz possible, that connection with criminal law becomes a lot less than in the BOPZ Act, which focuses entirely on forced admission. This is about forced care in a lot of other settings. Of course safety is an element that plays a role in the mandatory ggz Act, but let's not fall back on that old mistake. Because then all of our concerns about the context in which the law mandatory ggz is placed suddenly come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u160	What I was trying to indicate is in particular how the Huekstra Committee's recommendations have been taken over by the cabinet and on the basis of which the cabinet has come to the division of roles that has now been described in the legislative proposal. Maybe I place a little too much emphasis on that one aspect, which is against criminal law, because I think Mrs Barth has a point: just when there is compulsory care, you want to stay far away from criminal law. The fact is that there are a few arguments on the basis of which the prosecutor gets that role. One of them, which I have also mentioned, is that, in view of its expertise, this is an obvious partner to take on this role. I will look into the role of the medical director in this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u161	Mrs. Barth, but I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u162	It can be very brief, Mr. Chairman. In particular, let us continue to stress that this role of the Public Prosecutor provides for an independent legal review of whether forced care is at issue, yes or no. This is, in our view, a very important role that the Public Prosecutor plays in the compulsory ggz Act and that we lack in the Health and Force Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u163	Yeah, clearly. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk expressed his concern about the safety of care workers. I think that's a legitimate concern. I believe that attention is being paid to this. This is what I want to say. Care in the outpatient situation, as well as the provision of care in an institution, must be able to perform it safely, also for employees. On a case-by-case basis, it will be necessary to consider whether and how safe implementation in the outpatient situation is possible. If it is estimated that safe implementation of care in the outpatient situation is not possible, care can be provided through forced admission or in an environment that is suitable for that purpose, e.g. a regional institution for sheltered housing. These alternatives are explicitly kept open in the law, if there is an imminent risk, in order to ensure the safety of the care workers concerned. This is an answer to Mr Van Dijk's question. More generally, Mr Dercksen has asked how the mandatory ggz Act can improve safety. If mandatory care is needed, aspects related to safety can also be included in the healthcare authorisation. For example, restrictions can be imposed on receiving visits. That's very concrete. I also mention the use of news services and the closure of the Internet. In addition, the legislative proposals offer smooth transitions to place clients in the right place. As I have just said, in reply to Mr Van Dijk: if there are any questions about care in an outpatient setting, then perhaps another place is conceivable if safety is at stake. From this point of view, forensic patients can be placed in the ggz, but the mandatory ggz Act now also provides a legal basis for placing clients in a TBS clinic where there is no alternative from a safety point of view. In that case, the law on compulsory ggz governs the legal status of these clients.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u164	Thank you for these answers, but paper is patient. We are now finding that supervision is quite inadequate. Perhaps I will come back to that when the Minister has taken the floor. We can write it down, but how are you going to guarantee that there is real control of how it happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u165	The starting point is that that control is there. This is also regulated by law, but I have heard Mr Dercksen well in his first term: paper is patient, practice is more aggressive and there are examples of this. We want to move towards a culture where it becomes more self-evident that care professionals who are genuinely concerned about safety feel so safe within their professional setting that they can raise this issue, scale it up and say: in this setting it is not going well; outpatient assistance is not the appropriate route. I very much hope that Mr Dercksen will at the same time endorse the starting point that we are also striving for a culture in which the multitude of possibilities in the area of compulsory care also creates a culture in which not everyone who is ill should be included in an institution. That is a precarious balance. Once again, we want to see a culture in which care professionals who are dealing with people who might have a risky behavior feel safe enough to challenge their superiors if they feel compromised in their safety and are then taken seriously. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Bruijn of the VVD Group has asked if the Minister can state, but in this case the Secretary of State is going to reply whether information on the level of security is now sufficiently taken into account in the indication by the Ggz. Has this improved? The professional always takes this into account in his judgement if this is the case. In the regular ggz there is not always a security emergency. In fact, I also refer to the point made by Mrs Barth, who said that mandatory ggz sometimes has no connection with security at all, let alone criminal law. This is not even the case more often than not. There is therefore no standard definition of the level of security. In forensic psychiatry, this is more often discussed, as it often concerns people who exhibit dangerous behavior and come into contact with criminal law. Then it is important to provide the right level of security in the setting. Assessing patients' recurrent risks as reliably as possible is therefore crucial. In order to assess whether a patient can or can return to society safely on leave, risk assessment tools are used. Secure care for regular ggz patients, people without a criminal record, takes place in the regular ggz at scaling up of care, at forensic psychiatric departments and at forensic-psychiatric clinics. In the generic module Dream and Drang and in the multidisciplinary directive, attention is given to risk assessment, which I have just mentioned. Field parties are in the process of setting up a field standard of secure ggz and life cycle function at this point. This is also important to know how many secure beds need to be purchased. This new field standard must be ready by 1 April. This includes the need to transfer a patient from the civil framework to secure care, scaling-up and scaling-down arrangements and inclusion criteria for healthcare providers for this target group. All this in response to Mrs De Bruijn's questions on this point. Mr. Chairman. Questions have also been asked about the gap resulting from the deletion of the observation measure. Mr Van Dijk asked: are there now sufficient instruments to be able to intervene effectively if there is not enough threat of manifestation of immediate serious disadvantage? The answer is as follows. Indeed, the failure to include the previously proposed observation measure creates a gap. We can't deny that. However, this can be limited by using a broader explanation of the concept of "immediately" in the context of the crisis measure in relation to the threat of serious harm. In fact, a meeting with practitioners has shown that the term "immediately" needs to be more open and can be filled in because of the very different situations that need to be assessed. There was agreement that the term should be used in the context of the specific case. The term "immediately" does not necessarily mean that it is expected that the serious disadvantage will manifest itself within a given period, for example 24 hours. That is why the legislative proposal does not include a specific time limit linked to the term "immediately" and an open standard has been chosen as a directive. In addition, the Act provides mandatory ggz the possibility to provide a person with temporary compulsory care for up to 18 hours prior to taking a crisis measure if it can reasonably be assumed that a crisis measure should be taken. That period can also be used for further investigation, if one reasonably suspects that a crisis measure is necessary, but is not quite sure yet. In this case, a person may be transferred to an appropriate research area for the purpose of making a better diagnosis. In this respect, there is the restriction that the process of a crisis measure must be very clear, or that there is a presumption that this will be necessary. All this in response to Mr Van Dijk's question. With regard to the observation measure, or more generally, he has asked another question: is the gap created by it further filled so that an unsafe society is prevented? If there is no immediate serious disadvantage but serious disadvantage, action may be taken by initiating the procedure for granting a care authorisation. Should the situation escalate during that procedure, a crisis measure may still be chosen. In addition, as I mentioned earlier, it is possible to opt for the 18-hour measure. That period may be used for further examination. I feel like I'm reading the same answer twice now, but it's two different answers, so I don't know why. But I do not hear myself say anything new in these two minutes; so seriously I take this question from Mr Van Dijk. The 18-hour period can in any case be used to investigate someone in the run-up to a crisis measure. This leads back to the question: is there a gap? In our opinion, there are effective instruments available which do not completely fill the gap in the deletion of the observation measure, since it has been deleted. Mr. Chairman. The Public Prosecutor's Office has more expertise to perform the applicant's role than, for example, the medical director. I was just getting ahead of this text, but I wanted to say this to Mrs Barth. The medical director should focus on the core tasks of care. Another reason why the district attorney is better equipped depends on the fact that the implementation of the law requires a rural infrastructure. So that's a more technical reason. That infrastructure needs a high level of security. That's what the DA has at his disposal, and the ggz doesn't have it yet. The medical director takes care of the preparation of the health care. He receives a care plan from the caretaker and a medical certificate from the independent psychiatrist. A few questions were asked about that. With this I go to Mrs Baay-Timmerman of 50PLUS, who asked: should the prosecutor always take the medical statement as a starting point? The answer is yes. The medical certificate to be drawn up by an independent psychiatrist is a mandatory element in the procedure for a petition for a care authorisation. It must therefore be taken as a starting point. In addition to the requirement of a psychiatrist's assessment, the compulsory ggz Act imposes several other requirements on the content of the statement. Another question has been raised by Mrs Baay: can the district attorney request a second opinion? The answer is: that is possible, because under the law mandatory ggz nothing stands in the way. So that space is there, as long as the medical certificate meets the requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u166	This is what I was thinking. If the D.A. does not see the medical certificate in such a way that it could cause a serious disadvantage and doubt it itself on the basis of the information obtained by him, he may obtain that second opinion. Doesn't that give the district attorney the opportunity to question a medical statement more quickly, on the grounds that he thinks there might be a criminal threat?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u167	As far as the medical statements are concerned, I wouldn't like to suggest to the public prosecutor that he should direct as much as possible to second opinions. But the law doesn't forbid it, so it's possible. Of course, what happens next is very important. If a request is made for a care authorisation, the judge will have the final vote. In doing so, it weighs on both the position of the medical director and that of the prosecutor. So he has the last word in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u168	Secretary of State, how much longer do you think you'll need?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u169	I am still working on it, Mr President, but I am also trying to answer all the questions as seriously as possible. I'd like to try to talk a little bit faster, but I'm still working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u170	I wouldn't start talking any faster, but try it a little compact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u171	Mr. Chairman. Mr Ganzevoort asked whether it had been considered that the role of the medical director should be checked by the Supervisory Board. I think the Minister has already gone into that, hasn't he? No. Well, I'll give you the answer. The recommendation in ZonMw's report was to have the physician-director appointed by the Supervisory Board, in order to better guarantee the independent position of that physician-director. However, the independent position of the medical director is already sufficiently guaranteed in the compulsory ggz Act. It is common practice for the healthcare provider to ensure the independence of the medical director. Healthcare providers may choose in the statutes to have the medical director appointed by the Supervisory Board. That is a freedom that the healthcare provider himself has. The law therefore allows healthcare providers to do so. On this point, we do not engage in the governance of the providers. Mr. Chairman. After the prosecutor has prepared the petition with the medical director, the decision shall be taken by the judge. Under the Law mandatory ggz, all forms of coercion are examined in advance by the judge, so not only the coercion, as is now the case under the BOPZ Act. In connection with this, Mrs Baay also asked whether the Public Prosecutor would not be more likely to assume that the serious disadvantage is present. What vision prevails, that of justice or that of the family? That is another question, with the same answer: the judge decides, not the prosecutor. It is therefore an independent judge test, which weighs the opinions of the various actors in it. Mrs Strik also asked a question about this: in what situations does the government consider it conceivable that the judge should issue an authorisation against the will of the Public Prosecutor? Here too: it's up to the judge. The judge decides. He can also make a different decision than the district attorney would like. Mrs Strik has also asked whether the Public Prosecutor does not have too much of a dominant position. He may file an application other than that of the medical director. I realize this is the same question as Mrs Baay's. It's up to the judge. He's the independent person in this. So it literally weighs and flies the verdict. Mr. Chairman. If there is an acute situation, the mayor may impose a crisis measure similar to the detention, the ibs, under the BOPZ Act. Some questions have been asked about the role of mayors of municipalities. Mr Van Dijk asked whether it would be possible to explain what considerations may be made before a crisis measure is imposed. The answer to this is: the mayor will check whether the criteria for issuing a crisis measure have been met in his opinion. That's a marginal test. The mayor can rely on the medical certificate he receives from an independent psychiatrist. The psychiatrist has assessed whether there is or is a serious suspicion of a disorder; whether there is an immediate threat of harm resulting from this disorder and whether this disadvantage can only be removed if a crisis measure is taken. For this purpose, the psychiatrist may also have received information from the Public Prosecutor about previously issued healthcare authorisations and relevant police and judicial data intended to assess whether there is an imminent serious disadvantage. So it's a marginal test. This will prevent aldermen and former aldermen who had known picket service. I also know examples of mayors who did not pass on a burden. Then no ibs came into being, although a psychiatrist or assistant psychiatrist did call asking if anyone could be locked up. The mayor then asked to outline the context a little more broadly. It was then a confused person with confused behavior who undressed in the street on Friday afternoon. The mayor then asked: it is Friday afternoon; have you tried to place this person on a voluntary basis with the Salvation Army or with other healthcare providers? That hasn't been tried yet. The mayor said, "Try that one time, and if it doesn't work, call me back." Then it stayed quiet on the phone. So that marginal test certainly makes some sense. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk also asked for a more detailed explanation of the mayor's role in a crisis measure. He asked: is the mayor obliged to hear himself or is mandating possible? The mayor can actually mandate hearing from the person concerned. He may, for example for practical reasons, ask the institution where the person is staying to hear the person in his place. Mrs Bikker also asked questions about this. She asked by whom a person should be heard when imposing a crisis measure. It also asked what is meant by the term "if possible." The answer to that is that the obligation rests with the mayor anyway. He can mandate that, even to someone outside the city. The term "if possible" refers to the situation that the person concerned does not want to be heard or cannot be contacted. There are different variants of that. However, the mayor must not assume too lightly that someone does not want to be heard or cannot be heard. He'll have to make an effort to do that. If I value it correctly, that's a tooth heavier than what's happening under the BOPZ Act. If the hearing doesn't happen, the mayor should be able to motivate why not. An important difference from the retention under the BOPZ Act is that mandatory care can now be applied prior to the crisis measure if there is a reasonable presumption that a crisis measure will be taken. Therefore, the provision of appropriate care should not be delayed until the measure has been issued. If mandatory care has been imposed by the judge or mayor, the person responsible for the care must assess the effectiveness, proportionality and safety of its implementation in the specific situation. For the sake of time, I shall skip a piece of text, but a few questions have been asked in this area. There was, among other things, a question from Mrs Barth. She asked: how great is the risk that, for example, severely addicted people with intellectual disabilities and/or other mental illness are sent from the locker to the wall? I assume that this concerns the fear that people will be deprived of good care, that they will fall between shore and ship and that they will be sent from the locker to the wall. Guarantees that no one is ever sent from the locker to the wall, I cannot and will not give, but the legislative proposals offer more opportunities for providing tailored care. Through cooperation between all disciplines, it is estimated that fewer people are sent from the cabinet to the wall. Currently, in some health and safety homes, both the ggz and the vg sector are connected. I know that from my own experience from my previous work. With us at the Security House Noord- en Oost-Gelderland the ggz was standard at the table. I assume that this new law will also bring the VG sector into line. The Confused Behaviour Switch team encourages more regions to follow this approach. The mandatory ggz Act even requires cooperation between the various actors, including to solve bottlenecks in care and thus prevent people from falling between shore and ship. I therefore have good hope that it will prevent people from being sent from the cabinet to the wall less often than it is now. This too will have to be a point in the evaluation. Mr Ganzevoort asked if I could clarify when which law applies, especially when there are combinations of aspects in an individual, for example a combination of detention and an LVB or detention and ggz. The answer is: forensic care can only be imposed if there is a criminal offence. So that regime is very clear. When forensic care is not at issue, the question of which problem is at the forefront of what appropriate care is and thus, as a derivative, what law applies, the Wzd or the compulsory ggz Act. The professionals involved make the assessment of which problem is dominant. In this context, Mr Don has asked a question about the difference between the will of people with and without mental illness. Both legislative proposals are based on willpower. Willingness can fluctuate in time or be related to certain decisions. Someone, for example, cannot be willing to decide on money matters but can be willing to take care of them. Within an individual there can be gradations. Following the recommendations of the Thematic Law Review, it has been stipulated that willful resistance is met if there is serious harm to the individual alone. This means that in such a case, as a specific answer to the question, he can choose not to be treated. That's no different than someone with a somatic condition like cancer. When in the case of willful resistance there is also a serious disadvantage for another person, it is of course different. It is then possible to intervene, whereby the will of the person concerned can be overruled. The same applies if there is an acute risk of life for the person concerned. This test question is always asked: is there suicidal behaviour? On the basis of that test, a decision is made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u172	If I understand the Secretary of State correctly, he says: you can be psychiatricly ill, which doesn't mean you're willless, and there's only an act when you say... I'm trying to find the right words. Both laws are based on the client's ability to act and only if there is another danger around willfulness and the choice of someone not to treat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u173	That's one thing, so if that puts someone else at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u174	Unless there's an acute danger to the person himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u175	Yeah, that should be added. In case of suicidal behaviour, of a reasonable risk of suicide, the patient himself may also be overruled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u176	But now I am physically severely ill; you are using the example of cancer. I refuse treatment and there's an imminent danger. I'll die, and there won't be any interference. So there's still a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u177	In my opinion, there are always cases to be mentioned in such a debate that indicate the diabolical dilemmas you can face. I do not have a ready answer to this complicated case that Mr Don is naming. I would like to come back to this in the second term, but I find this a very complicated and exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u178	Finally, Mr Don on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u179	I'm just trying to help the Secretary of State a little bit. I do not think it is possible to indicate exactly where it lies here in this room. I think the client and his family, especially the professional, should make a choice from the point of view of dialogue. Then you get the question of how to support that professional in that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u180	Whether or not competence is relevant in exceptional situations is then the question to be answered by the healthcare provider, the care provider. Then I do not have to come back to it in the second term, because I see Mr Don nodding. Then I come to the issue of data exchange. In order to assess the need for mandatory care, including the preparation and implementation of mandatory care, it is essential that chain partners share information with each other. In doing so, the information from the ggz to the justice system and from the justice system to the ggz should go. Relevant family and local information should also be involved in the decision-making process on mandatory care. I can give you a number of examples, but I do not know whether there is an urgent need for this at the moment in the Chamber. So I'm not gonna dwell on it right now. If there is such a need, I would like to hear it in the second term and will be happy to consider it in greater detail. The fact is that Mrs Oomen has asked the explicit question whether information can be shared between, for example, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the ggz domain and the municipality. The answer to that question is that this can indeed be done. In order to assess the need for mandatory care and for the preparation and implementation of mandatory care, it is essential that chain partners share information with each other. I'm thinking about the D.A., the police, the municipalities and the ggz. In doing so, information from ggz to justice or from justice to ggz should go. Relevant family and local information should also be involved in the decision-making process on mandatory care. The fact that the judge is informed from several angles is at the heart of the mandatory ggz Act. That law lays down principles for all foreseeable necessary data transmissions that indicate which information may be shared under what conditions. At the same time, I believe that this is an answer to Mrs Bikker's question as to whether information can be shared in the framework of exploratory research.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u181	In the discussion about who should know what and where one should have insight, the position of the police in particular is an issue that always comes up. You just happened to mention it for a moment, but you usually talk about justice, which is a very different category in that respect. If we look at the tragedy surrounding Bart van U., as described by the Hoekstra Committee, then one of the tragic elements was that the reports of the district agent did not get through but that the district agent never heard back. Of course, that was also what the police chief was involved in his complaint: we are the first to be addressed and the last to be informed or not at all. There are all kinds of wonderful reasonings for it, but in practice this leads to very unpleasant and very dangerous immediate danger situations, and then really immediately, in the literal sense of the word. In the interpretation that I have also read and which I laughed very much about, the point was that immediately actually means mediocrity, namely that there can be a time in between. That's very bizarre. I would like to point out that the police also play an important role in this and that this also has to do with being informed or not being informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u182	I do not think it is necessary to tighten up or amend the law for this type of information sharing. As Mr Schnabel himself points out, the police had relevant information. In fact, the police were the supplier of relevant information. But then they didn't act properly. And that probably says more about the culture of non-cooperation, of case consultation in which there is no listening to each other or information is not properly shared, than about the legal bases that are or are not proper. Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked, among other things, by Mr Van Dijk about the sharing of information in the Security House. Safety houses are partnerships for tackling cross-chain issues. The Security House has no legal function of its own. Therefore, there is no legal basis for sharing data in this context. Participating parties shall retain their own responsibilities and powers. Each participating professional must always consider what information he may share with other participants within his powers. In order to support this assessment, the National Steering Group Security Houses has established the handle "Data sharing in the care and security domain." This is an important document, because it contains what is allowed under the applicable privacy regulations. For a care professional, the outcome of the assessment may be that medical professional secrecy prevents the sharing of patient data, but in some cases information other than the information covered by that confidentiality obligation is sufficient to allow the person concerned to be appropriately treated in the event of contact by the police with the person concerned. The Security House can also contribute to the information position of the police while respecting privacy and medical confidentiality. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna get back to the issue of outpatient care. The law mandatory ggz and the law care and coercion are in line with the changing social beliefs that care should take place as much as possible in the client's own environment and that patients who are able to do so should be able to lead as much as possible an integrated life in society. The current BOPZ Act is not sufficient in this respect. The Health and Force Act and the Law mandatory ggz are innovative in this respect. These laws make it possible under strict conditions that forced care can also be provided outside classical institutions. People in urgent need of care can stay at home with forced care, but they can also be accommodated in small-scale housing if this leads to unsafe situations. I just turned that in. This can happen, for example, in a form of sheltered housing. Of course, care must always be responsible and safe. It is therefore also expressly not the case that care should now be given out of work. Ambulant compulsion offers the opportunity to offer more customization. The requirements for outpatient care are already largely laid down in the legislative proposals themselves. Those terms are known. The requirements of ultimum remedium, proportionality, subsidiarity and security can be considered. The procedure set out in the legislative proposals is also fully applicable to outpatient care. The general measures of governance under the compulsory ggz and the Wzd Act specify the requirements under which care can be provided in the outpatient sector. These general measures of governance are currently for consultation in the field. Discussions conducted with the field in spring 2017 have shown that care in the outpatient situation needs to be flexible and meet the specific care needs of the client, taking into account its preferences. In the AMvBs, we have translated this into a way that includes the need to regulate a number of issues, including the accessibility of the care provider and the supervision, but that there is scope to take account of the specific situation when determining how this is done. The consultation period is due to expire on 4 February. I'm very curious about the input of the field. Questions have been asked about this too. Mr Schnabel asked if there were any answers to the questions surrounding the consultation and whether the directors could indicate whether and to what extent the directives are already being experimentally worked on and what the results are. Participation is still ongoing, but it is well known that, for example, GGZ is in favour of the Netherlands or does not wish to rule out fixation in advance in the outpatient situation. This is an important input point of GGZ Nederland. Well, we're gonna have to deal with that. Another point is about experimentation, also a question from Mr Schnabel. At the moment, it simply cannot be experimented because there is no legal basis. You can come up with all kinds of pilots, but you can't experiment with outpatient coercion because it's not legal yet. Mrs Baay asked why we regulate so much through the AMvB and not in the law. A lot of important things are regulated in the laws. I've already mentioned a lot of them. The additional guarantees that will be provided in both AMvBs stem in particular from the difference between the setting within an accommodation and the setting outside an accommodation. That's what the AMvBs are all about. And as I pointed out: on February 4th, the consultation of the people who know about it in the country. Mrs De Bruijn asked, in the context of an out-of-arm force, whether the Secretary of State was not concerned that due to the lack of sufficient professional supervision, compulsory admission would still be decided upon. I will come back later on to the extent to which olefinisation is taking shape, but of course the starting point is that care must always be responsible and safe. Of course it is not the case that care should now be provided in an outpatient manner. It's the starting point. In fact, we want to give as little care as possible. Lack of staff or supervision should not be a reason to take someone in instead of treating them out of work if that is better. Therefore, the AMvB leaves the assessment of supervision as far as possible to the healthcare provider and, for example, it is not required that two healthcare providers are present at all times. Capacity is also being worked on. Field parties are working in the framework of the waiting lists to increase capacity. I shall come back to that very briefly. Mrs De Bruijn also asked about the possibilities for compulsory care in the outpatient situation of the Secretary of State. As an option for compulsory care at home, I see, among other things, mandatory medication. At the moment it is not yet possible to administer compulsory medication at home. However, under the BOPZ Act, there is the possibility of a conditional authorisation, which makes it necessary to provide for outpatient treatment as a condition to prevent forced admission. If a patient does not comply with that condition and refuses to receive ambulatory treatment, he must be admitted to treatment against his will, because that is the only alternative. The law on compulsory ggz does not require this in the case of the person in question who wants to have an outpatient treatment at home, e.g. a compulsory medication, although this is part of the healthcare authorisation. In such a situation, he can also be transferred to a clinic, for example an outpatient clinic, to be treated. After that, the person concerned can return home. By not letting the person in question have a choice, you want to work in front of them. Thus, the mandatory ggz Act is based on a fundamentally different principle than the BOPZ Act. A conditional authorisation under the BOPZ Act places the compulsory admission at the centre of intervention, while the compulsory ggz Act we are talking about puts the treatment at the heart of the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u183	I would like to return to the previous point of the Secretary of State. In fact, I can also see that the possibility of administering compulsory medication in the outpatient setting is probably one of the most important reinforcements within the Ggz Act. Back to my previous question, if professional supervision is needed in the outpatient setting. The Secretary of State rightly pointed out that, of course, lack of staff or insufficient staff should never be the reason for switching to forced admission. But you'll make the decision to the healthcare providers. This means that you run the risk that they will consider whether they have enough people to offer this concern in this way, or that they will take it on board. Don't you see that as a potential risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u184	I fully understand Mrs De Bruijn's point. That's probably a risk. It is not for nothing that we are currently working with all the relevant organisations to reduce waiting times, for example, because that has everything to do with this. There must be sufficient capacity, but it must also not be the case, for example, that culture we really want to break down, that a healthcare provider says: sorry, I do not have the capacity to regulate that outpatient, but we in the institution can do just fine. It should not therefore become a one-way street, whereas a fellow care provider certainly has capacity in the outpatient environment. Then reference should also be made to a colleague provider. We really want to have this culture more in our ears. That is what I call the sector. I also see a lot of improvements on that point, but we are not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u185	As the Secretary of State suggests, it will indeed lead to an improvement. It is a good thing that consideration is being made. In this case, too, it is unlikely to produce the 100% perfect situation, but it is a good thing that you at least pay attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u186	This brings me to a key question, namely that of underutilisation in the ggz, almost EUR 300 million, and the excessively rapid reduction of beds compared to the slow growth of outpatient capacity. That's the national image right now. This is a difficult reality for the providers, because it is the health insurers who do not buy well and leave the money on the shelf. I would be very pleased if the Secretary of State would respond with appropriate force.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u187	Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to refer to this under the heading 'implementation' in the next block. I'm really gonna try to do that in a rush. I shall therefore deal with the waiting times and the lack of adequate buying-in in the area of outpatient care. Mrs Barth, moreover, has asked under duress whether there is a distinction in that sphere between light and heavy forms of concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u188	I might be able to help the Secretary of State: I asked that question in the context of the Wzd, not in the context of the compulsory ggz Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u189	Then it's answered. I had a very nice other answer. That's getting along, Mr. Chairman, I'm getting to the point of implementation. That's another block. I have just outlined to the Chamber what we are dealing with in the legislative proposals before us. The work is obviously not done. At least equally relevant is how the law will be implemented and how the law will work in practice. Together with the field parties concerned, we are in the starting blocks for the preparation of the entry into force. For example, Mrs Oomen was right to draw attention to the need to secure this throughout the whole chain. In this context, Mrs Strik asked how the government will ensure that, despite all the changes that are to be expected in the near future, the laws remain enforceable and do not affect professionals and clients. A good implementation path is essential. When decisions have been taken by your Chamber on the legislative proposals, the work in the field will really start well. For all three legislative proposals, an implementation process with field parties will be launched, as I would just mention. In doing so, there will be an emphasis on the coherence between the legislative proposals and their feasibility. The Minister has just indicated how phased implementation of the law could possibly take place. But the provision of information, for example, can also take place in stages, regardless of the introduction of the laws. The request for no additional administrative burden is met, which would arise if the laws did not enter into force by calendar year. At the moment, consultations are taking place between GGZ Nederland, the NZa, Zorginstituut Nederland, Zorgverzekerings Nederland and the Ministry of VWS on the financing of costs arising from the law. Among other things, it examines whether benefits and charges for compulsory care should be adjusted. It's about tariffs. Another concern is: do municipalities have enough resources to have their entire field of work in order? Mrs De Bruijn has specifically asked for this. We have an idea of the costs involved, the extent to which municipalities can bear these costs themselves and what is needed for them. The supply of chain information is further developed by the chain partners. The costs of realization for the whole and per chain partner are part of that. In addition, we assume that this law could also bring savings. This will allow earlier intervention and could lead to more intervention, but early intervention can prevent more serious intervention. It is precisely because of these difficult factors that costs and savings will be monitored from the date of entry into force of this law. Mr Dercksen of the PVV has asked for more time for the introduction of ICT. Is there room for that? The Minister has already discussed the implementation and we estimate that, now that we opt for implementation in 2020, there is sufficient time and that supply chain partners can start on time, including with ICT. For proper implementation of the law it is necessary that temporarily and smoothly...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u190	I tried to run to get ahead of the next sentence. The next question was: is there enough money for that? I understand from the prosecution that they are also looking for the means to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u191	Mr President, this remains to be seen in greater detail. As you know, resources are reserved. Whether they are sufficient, we should start inventing each other over the next few months. These are some of those things that tend to get a little more expensive sometimes than you estimate. It has to be done right. I would like to make it quite clear that, for example, every healthcare provider should not have to buy a whole new ICT system. With their existing system they may provide good links. In order for this law to be properly implemented, it is necessary to be able to be scaled up and scaled down in a timely and smooth manner in the care sector. I am always hammering at this scale in the sector; that too must be borne in mind. There are currently waiting lists in the ggz. That is a subject that has our serious attention. I also reported at the meeting with the permanent committee of the First Chamber of the United States of America that this has my priority attention. The parties concerned are also working very hard to reach each other's standards. An appointment was made with the Minister in June to have the waiting lists with each other in July within the terms of reference. I'll hold the parties to that. They also say they're explicitly committed to getting it. By the way, it's a multi-headed monster. There is not easy to identify a cause or two of: here it is or there it is. It is extremely complicated, I say in response to a question from Mr Don, but also in response to Mrs Barth's comments. The paradox is: money is not the problem. Money is available, but it appears that there is not an adequate or sufficiently secure purchase of acute and outpatient ggz. Now several MPs are going to ask me about this, but I want to say on this: ZN and GGZ Nederland will provide insight into the expansion of the capacity for secure acute and outpatient ggz by March at the latest on the basis of the 2018 contractual agreements. This is done in close coordination with the Trimbos Institute in the case of outpatient ggz, as this shows very carefully the extent to which adequate outpatient assistance is provided. The urgency is therefore seen from different sides and the magnifying glass is placed on them from different sides. In the early spring we can say more about that. I do not have much more to say at this point at the moment. Although, I can say more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u192	Mr. Don's gonna ask you a few questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u193	Short, Mr. Chairman. Waiting lists are a problem. I think one of the causes of the waiting list problem is the problem of psychiatrists. At the moment there are about 650 vacancies for psychiatrists, I understand. I didn't verify that number, but if it's true, on a total of about 4,000, there's something very solid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u194	Supplementary. Money is not the problem, but money is also the problem, because money that is not spent is a problem. So I hope that the Secretary of State will be ready to address, in particular, the health insurers, in March, with an extremely punitive approach, if there are no satisfactory results on the expansion of capacity at precisely the points he mentions.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This was also not agreed at the time in the multiannual agreement ggz. The reduction of the beds was agreed that the building-up of the outpatient care would not be left behind. The health insurance companies simply failed to comply with that agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u195	I don't know if it's true that all the blame for that has to be put in one pair. I am in intensive consultation with the relevant parties: with the health insurers but also with the providers, who are multicolored, and also with MIND, for example. We have very intensive discussions about this and we are really trying to understand where exactly the shoe is wringing. A comforting thought is that the small 300 million referred to by Mrs Barth is also available in this year, above the available budget for ggz, to do something about this problem, and here is a Secretary of State who is very motivated to help solve it. I think that's in the best interest of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u196	Can I ask you again if the Secretary of State can make an assessment when he's finished?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u197	I still have two sides of my own text and a few loose questions. I'll be ready by midnight, but there'll be another minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u198	I hope you finish early. You'll be done by midnight, but it could be now. And then there's the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u199	Mr President, I would just like to finish the block that I have before me, so that you can ask Members if I leave any questions on my domain?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u200	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u201	No, you're not gonna do that? Then I'll just move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u202	With in mind that we have some sort of end time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u203	Yes. The health insurance companies and the ggz providers have jointly agreed to invest in outpatient care, as part of the arrangements made with the previous minister. This spring will therefore be made clear to what extent this has happened. I expect to be able to provide much more clarity about this in March or April. I have already said that parties have indicated their full commitment and I will stick to it. Mr President, I would like to see where I might be able to skip text. Now I'm going to the point of sufficiently secure care. The extent of the capacity of secure care should be achieved, as for regular care, through agreements between health care providers in the ggz and insurers on the one hand. There is no lack of financial resources, as I said earlier in the direction of Mrs Barth. In my letter of 22 December last to the House of Representatives on waiting times and ambulances, I also stated that the NZa found that the agreement made on extending the treatment capacity of secure care did not come sufficiently from the ground. GGZ Nederland and Zorgverzekerings Nederland will work together on how this agreement can be completed. I will be able to inform you about this shortly. That's what I wanted to finish this block with. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to address a few questions that have been asked and which I would like to refer to as 'other', but which might as well have been in my story. Firstly, Mr Don's question on separation. Why is it still in the ggz that people are being separated? The answer is: in practice, someone can be separated if no other suitable, less radical alternatives can be used effectively. That does not go away, and on that point Mr Don and I really have a band that will always have to be separated in the ggz as much as possible. The ggz is taking initiatives to further reduce this separation. Mr Don himself pointed out the Dolhuys Manifest. The inspection focuses on prevention of separation, team culture and timely consultation in its supervision. Mr Don also wondered whether the Empire could not be more active in thinking about the Dolhuys Manifest. Indeed, on June 23, 2016 12 ggz institutions have the Dolhuys Manifest "Dutch ggz separated!" signed. They also want the isolation cell to be abolished before 1 January 2020. I think it is wonderful that institutions take that initiative themselves. Force shots must be an ultimatum remedium. I have said that before, but I would like to say to Mr Don that I am going to talk to the sector about how to further reduce forced withdrawals and coercive measures. I certainly see this as a responsibility of the Empire, in consultation with the responsible healthcare partners. Mrs Barth also asked questions about the reduction of compulsion and urge: how do you intend to contribute to accelerating and strengthening the reduction of compulsion and urge and how does the inspection monitor this? I just indicated that I warmly embraced such an initiative taken by the market players themselves. The ggz has been active for a long time in reducing compulsion, for example by providing high-quality intensive guidance within the high intensive care. It is important that institutions continue to invest in reducing. This is why more organisations should be in line with the initiative that has just been mentioned. There is now, we think, a cultural change going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u204	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his commitment. It's an important commitment. To get this done, we need gangmakers, and you're a gangbanger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u205	Very briefly. Will this issue also receive specific attention in the evaluations we have just agreed with the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u206	That seems to me to be a good thing, but in response to a question from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance on the development of compulsion and urge, I had already said that we should set targets and then evaluate them. Apart from that, the inspection in its supervision has a strong focus on the further reduction of compulsion and urge, so that is what the inspection is going to look at very carefully. I have already answered Mr Ganzevoort's question as to whether we have an understanding of the relationship between the capacity of care and the use of compulsion and urge. I have already promised to look with the market players at the extent to which we can formulate objectives on this issue. Mrs Wezel of the SP has asked questions about the operation of the inspection: the debate on the functioning of the IGJ has been going on for a long time; what is going on and what are you going to do? The research carried out by Sorgdrager and Van der Steenhoven in 2012 has provided pointers for the inspection in order to achieve an improvement path. That is also monitored by a visitation committee. In the meantime, the inspection has gone through this improvement process, with far-reaching measures being implemented in the organisation. These are measures that have laid the building blocks on the basis of which the inspection has developed into a well-functioning organisation that can also develop in the coming years. So our picture is that improvements have indeed been made. Now that the improvement process has been completed in 2016, the inspection is developing further. For example, an ISO quality management system certificate was obtained in 2017. The inspection is now also in a fusion process for the Youth Care Inspectorate. I am confident that the Health and Youth Inspectorate will continue to develop in the near future. Mr President, there are a few other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u207	I have a question for the Secretary of State through the chairman. How do you see the report that's here now? Does that answer the government's questions about the Michael P. case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u208	I have given a more general answer about ISO certification and where the inspection is now. I cannot answer this specific question in this period. I would like to have some time to think about that and then I will come back to it in the second term. Shall we make a deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u209	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u210	Mr President, I have a few more questions and then I'm done. Mr Don asked: can the Secretary of State tell us about the extent of care avoidance, because people cannot pay their own risk? Care-avoidance is very difficult to investigate. The NIVEL shall report regularly. The latest report, which dates back to 2015 and I do not know to what extent it gives a true picture of the current state of affairs, shows that 3% of care avoidrs do so for financial reasons. That doesn't seem like much, but every caretaker who does that for financial reasons is too much for me. In this context, it is important to point out the important role played in the neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods of cities, municipalities and villages by the FACT teams and the social neighbourhood teams of municipalities that are really looking for people, who formulate questions and try to get them up to the table where they are lacking. An important part of the approach to people with confused behavior is early detection. Those signals need to be put down somewhere, after which you can provide appropriate care and support. You have to pick up that question sometimes. Even when people have financial problems, you have to help them. I just indicated that we also want to establish a relationship with debt relief. We want to look very wide. I have discussions about this with my colleague Tamara van Ark van Sociale Zaken, because debt relief and ggz have everything to do with each other. Mr. Chairman. Mr Schnabel has asked if I am prepared to say that the assessment of the mandatory ggz Act will, from the outset, pay particular attention to the premise that formal and moral improvement can be seen as an enemy of what is seen practically and clinically by professionals in the ggz as the good and necessary. I could never say this sentence out of my head, and I don't know if it's quite right as I read it, but you know what I mean. The short answer to that is yes. I have four more questions to ask you. Mr Don has asked a question about the registration of coercive measures. Can we require ggz providers to make coercive measures accessible to third parties, for example in their annual report? For the annual publication of coercive measures, the Transparency Calendar of the Zorginstituut Nederland (Zorginstituut Nederland) can be looked at. Under the Health Insurance Act, ggz institutions are already required to report annually by means of that calendar how much is being separated and how long it has been separated. In addition, the inspection shall publish annually the aggregated data relating to the application of coercion at national level. In this context, it is relevant that there is not necessarily a clear causal link between the extent to which coercive measures are applied and the quality of care. So we have to be careful to see a causal link in it very quickly. But now the bouncer is coming in response to a motion on this point tabled by the GroenLinks Group in the House of Representatives on the last day before the ceremony, I have asked for some time to study this question properly. She asked the same question: let institutions make it clear to what extent they apply coercive measures. I have promised the House of Representatives that I will be able to provide information on this at the end of January or early February. I have also indicated that I will look closely at the legal basis. That motion was subsequently held by GroenLinks. I should like to put the same question to this Chamber. I'd like to get back to this case. If we inform the House of Representatives, it is a small effort for us to send the same information to the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Barth asked if I see a task to prevent the advance of opium addiction by prescribing by doctors of oxycodone. That is an interesting point. I don't think it has a direct link to the content of the law, but it does to the client group we're talking about. At the moment, I do not have a clear view of this problem. I would like to promise Mrs Barth that we will take a serious look at this. I will then inform the First Chamber by letter. I am pleased to see that I am here, Mr. Chairman. It was less than four questions anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u211	That's nice, Secretary of State. Thank you, that's nice. But Mrs Barth has another question. I'm gonna ask her to keep it short, and we'll be a long way away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u212	I have asked questions about the possible desirability of a separate law on forced care for minors. It has not been answered by both the Minister and the Secretary of State. I have a feeling the Secretary of Law isn't gonna answer him either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u213	Then let me make Mrs Barth happy. May I answer the question, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u214	I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u215	I've got him in front of me, but I thought Mrs. Barth wouldn't notice. No, I had answered so many questions that I thought, "I don't call him." I apologize for that. I have the answer in front of me here, so I'll show you. What plans does the cabinet have with regard to the legal status of minors around forced care? Exactly that question was asked. In the reply we have already indicated that this legislative proposal is still at the stage of preparatory work. This has to do with the complexity of the subject, the restriction of the freedom of young people who stay closed for various reasons. This is a careful consideration of the regulation of rights and possible restrictions in the light of the Law on the Principles of Judicial Youth Institutions and of the frameworks for a pedagogical environment, the principle of responsible assistance and the objectives of education, treatment and preparation of return in society. Those two must be balanced. In addition, priority should first be given to the law mandatory ggz, the law care and coercion and the law forensic care. Before the summer, the cabinet will inform the First Chamber of the timetable for this specific arrangement. That is the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u216	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u217	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to express my thanks for the input of all Members. You could say: all good comes in threes. Three rulers behind the table, three legislative proposals on the role. I do not know whether it is related to the participation of two confessional parties in the new cabinet, but one would say that it can hardly be a coincidence. At least I promise you one thing: we're not going to make the 3:00 clock today. So I'm gonna get started soon. I would like to concentrate on the Forensic Care Act, which is different in character from the other two legislative proposals. It is not so much a legal status law but much more a key case and organization law, with some legal position elements. I think it's also a pleasure to be able to deal with that law here. Mrs Oomen already referred to it: the reason for this bill is in this Chamber, with a motion by a former member of your Chamber, Mr Van de Beeten. By the way, that motion dates back more than 14 years. It's been a long time. To be precise, it was July 2004. That motion was a response to a number of problems in practice as a result of the fact that the regular care system did not actually fit in with the care needed in a criminal context. For example, it was found in the prison system that there was an increasing number of prisoners with psychiatric problems who could not be given the necessary care. It was necessary to reduce the risk of relapse and resocialization. In addition, it was often difficult for the parole board to realize appropriate treatment options for individuals with care as a special condition, as an additional measure. One of the reasons for this was the fact that funding was provided through health insurance and that there were waiting lists in the care. The Justice Department had no way of directing itself on care in a criminal context. As a result, the Minister of Justice was unable to fulfil his responsibility for the proper enforcement of penalties. This bill gives the Minister of JenV more opportunities to steer forensic care. In the end, that is very important if you want to do something about the reduction of relapse and, through a more personalised approach, to ensure that those in need of care end up in the right place. In the direction of Mr Dercksen, I would say directly: on tbs, an important part of forensic care, you can, of course, be critical, but the recidivism rates for people returning to society from the TBs are still significantly lower than for prisoners returning to society from the regular prison system. At TBs you are talking about 19%, while that percentage is many times higher in the regular prison system, at about 47%. I deal with the questions along a number of themes. I want to talk about the continuity of care in relation to Article 2.3 of the Forensic Care Act. I would like to discuss a number of organisational aspects of the law. Think of powers, indication and placement, and procurement. I should like to refer to the interpretation by the prosecutor of the applicant's role, which may, moreover, be brief and the reasons why it has been chosen. Colleagues have already said something about it. I can tell you a little bit more about the way in which this is being implemented later. I also have a block of varia, but I will start with the main theme, on which most of the questions have been asked in this Chamber, but which also gets a lot of attention outside this Chamber: the issue of the refusing observers. Mr. Chairman. As you know, the NIFP reports on the presence of a mental disorder in suspects of serious crimes. The Pieter Baan Centre reports annually on about 200 observandi. In recent years, it has not been a very recent increase; we see that this increase has taken place a number of years earlier; we see that this leads to about half of those 200 observers refusing to participate in that study. It's about 100 suspects a year, even though we see at the same time that the average treatment time is decreasing. I refer to Mrs Barth's question on this subject. It's not like with a shorter treatment period more suspects are involved in the investigation now. That is a problem in my view, because if suspects do not cooperate, it will be very difficult for psychiatrists to come up with good and conclusive advice on the presence of a disorder at the time of the crime and thus answer the question of whether there is a need and desirability to impose a TBS measure. By refusing to cooperate, suspects try to avoid a TBS measure. As you know, Mr Schnabel referred to it, as did Mrs Barth O'Honnell, that a concluding opinion of the NIFP is not necessarily a requirement for the imposition of a TBS measure. That is also settled case law of the Supreme Court. However, in cases where this advice is not available, the judge must be able to reach a judgment that there is a disorder on other grounds. That is actually the key point for the courts to decide on the imposition of TBs. If this is not done, then there is a very undesirable and potentially dangerous situation. Perpetrators, perpetrators of serious crimes, will not receive the treatment they need. This is bad for themselves, but it also brings with it a danger to society. There may be casualties. That can be prevented if someone is being treated properly for his disorder. In order to do something about this, the Law on Forensic Care includes the so-called "Registering Observandi." Of course, there has been a lot of discussion about this in recent years. I also think that the call for and urgency of such an arrangement has also recently become topical again as a result of the terrible murder of Anne Faber. Mr. Chairman. The same scheme allows, as a last resort, as an ultimatum remedium, in the case of serious crimes for the purposes of the pro-justitia reports, to obtain existing medical data on non-observators without obtaining their consent from their traders. Of course, that is a far-reaching proposal. Breaking something essential such as medical professional secrecy and the right to change for medical professionals is a fundamental principle in our system. This also means that we have to deal with this extremely reluctantly. I understand very well that the Chamber is asking critical questions about this. I think we did the same here behind the table. But if you look at the bill, especially the modifications that have taken place, you will see that we have tried to keep that breach as limited as possible and to provide some very specific safeguards in the law. Before I go into some of the questions you have raised about necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity, I would like to briefly mention some of the safeguards in the law. This concerns both procedural and legal safeguards, while preserving the confidentiality of the data to be obtained as far as possible. For example, the circle of persons to whom the data are provided has been kept as small as possible. Only the members of the multidisciplinary committee and, in the event of a legal authorisation being issued, the rapporteurs will eventually have access to that information. You could say: they're medical records. This means, for example, that the data does not go to the Public Prosecutor's Office; the Public Prosecutor does not have access to it. I think it is important to make this very clear. It's really about being a committee, where doctors are part of, providing good advice. Another important guarantee is located in the independent committee that assesses whether medical data is available and advises on its usability. An independent psychiatrist will chair that committee and the doctors and behavioral experts who are on that committee have already been kept confidential by virtue of their profession, but, in addition to the functional confidentiality obligations of these members, it is stipulated for the entire committee that it is subject to confidentiality. In that connection, Mrs De Bruijn asked how exactly you are going to maintain that. Let me say first of all that I assume that it is not necessary to maintain this, but in the event that this is necessary and that the obligation of confidentiality is violated in that committee, Article 272 of the criminal law, which deliberately violates the secret that a person is obliged to keep under his office, profession or legal order, is punishable. Moreover, there is, of course, also a specific disciplinary procedure for BIG registered persons. I would just like to briefly mention the whole list of guarantees for short-term reasons. If there's any questions about it, you're gonna have to interrupt. These are the two safeguards I have just mentioned, but also, for example, the fact that it is possible to break through only in the case of very serious crimes, not in all cases, but where there really is a crime of life or serious sex crimes, that there is an ultimatum remedium and that there is a target bond. I say this in the direction of Mrs Bikker and also Mrs Barth, who asked questions about this. It is therefore not the case that these data may be used in criminal proceedings. It is really just a question of getting a good opinion: is there a disorder and is it desirable and necessary for TBs to be imposed? I also mention the safeguards regarding the destruction of data, the double judicial review and the suspensive effect during an appeal procedure, i.e. in cassation and appeal, the involvement of suspects and the information position of suspects. That's all been thought of. In other words, there are a lot of safeguards in this legislative proposal which, in my view, lead to an infringement of something fundamental, but which is surrounded by a lot of safeguards. Now I come to the point where several Members challenged me: what is actually the need and why exactly should this be? I saw with Mrs Bikker but also with Mrs Barth and Mrs Strik that they have doubts or are not convinced yet. I'm gonna do everything I can to convince them anyway. As I have just said, a legal breach of medical professional secrecy must be used with caution, but at the same time professional secrecy is not absolute. It also follows from the case law, for example of the European Court of Human Rights, that such a breach is permitted where there is an overriding requirement in the public interest. I am convinced that this situation is happening here, because we are talking about suspects of very serious crimes directed against life or serious sex crimes, where there is a very high risk of recurrence if the perpetrators are not treated for their disorder. That also has huge social consequences. These crimes intervene deeply in the lives of victims, but they also affect the sense of social security. In the case of suspects of this type of crime, it is necessary to determine whether there is a disorder in the context of the imposition of penalties. If that is the case, then it is important that we are able to impose the most appropriate sanction, with the right place for care if there is a disorder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u218	What I am missing from the Minister's reply so far is a nuance which Mr Wolfsen has put to us in his letter, namely the reasons why people refuse. It seems as if this proposal is based on the assumption that anyone who refuses will do so only because they want to be obstructed. But Mr Wolfsen in his letter to us indicated that sometimes people refuse because they are innocent and therefore have a good reason not to cooperate in their own condemnation. Sometimes people refuse because the refusal is part of their disorder and they do not understand the consequences of whether or not they cooperate. All these nuances in the reasons for the refusal have not so far been reflected in the Minister's reply and I have actually missed out on the reasons for the proposal from the outset, even though they are of great importance in the assessment of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u219	I understand that point very well, but at the same time it is very difficult to establish the justification for a refusal. The reasons for not cooperating also vary. Sometimes it's a refusal on the advice of a lawyer who says: you better not cooperate, because if you get TBs, you don't know what you're up to because the TBs measure can be renewed over and over again. Sometimes the refusal of punishment has consequences, but the defendant, whether or not on the advice of a lawyer, still chooses not to cooperate. Sometimes it's ignorance. Sometimes it's part of the disorder. But in essence it always comes down to the same thing, namely that in those cases it is difficult for psychiatrists to determine whether there was a disorder at the time of the crime, in other words whether someone was responsible when he committed the crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u220	I just indicated that a lawyer could also advise a suspect because that suspect didn't do it. The minister was just talking about someone who committed a crime, but this is all happening before a case goes to court. So these are people suspected of a crime. Maybe that person is refusing because he didn't do it. I would appreciate it if the Minister, in the wordings he used in his reply, would at least take that innocence charge with him. They're not people who are certain they committed a crime. They're suspected of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u221	I agree with you. No one's guilty before he's convicted. But we are dealing here with suspicions of very serious criminal offences. If these have actually been committed by the person in question and if they are caused by a disorder, then it may have consequences for the future if nothing is done about it. Regardless of the motivation of someone not to cooperate in research into themselves, I therefore think that, if there is a crime and a disorder associated with it, it is a missed opportunity, a serious missed opportunity if we cannot establish it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u222	Finally, Mrs Barth on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u223	Last question on my part, right now. That is precisely the charm of the proposal that Mr Wolfsen has sent us. His proposal does not take such a draconian step until the judge has already established that someone committed the crime. Then you are much less shooting rough guns at a particular situation that we also think is quite clearly undesirable. If someone is indeed guilty of committing such a crime and you can greatly reduce the risk of recurrence by giving someone appropriate treatment, then we can go along with that entirely. But at the stage it is about to take place, it has not yet been established that the crime has been committed. So you are going to take a very serious step, namely to undermine medical professional secrecy, when there is only the stage of suspicion of something. Well, then I would very much like a response from the Minister to Mr Wolfsen's proposal, which is covered by taking these tough steps only when the judge has already established that someone is guilty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u224	When I look at Mr Wolfsen's proposal, it seems very interesting in the first impression. I also find it interesting and want to examine it, but I must also note that it has not been tested under European law, which we are also dealing with. Let me give you one from the ECHR. We can talk in the Netherlands about a punishment and a measure, but under the ECHR a measure could be seen as punishment. You'll actually get a conviction in two stages. I can imagine that there are a lot of legal hooks and eyes attached to that. So I would like to look at that, but it is really an illusion to say that this is a very good way that we need to introduce quickly. So I want to look at that, but that really takes more time and it will also require a very radical adjustment of our criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u225	Mrs Barth may take a moment, then Mrs Wezel and then Mrs Strik, and all on the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving us room, because this is a very fundamental point. In my first term, I did not ask for it to be introduced in the short term; I asked for it to be studied seriously as an alternative. I would also like to point out to the Minister that Mr Wolfsen has informed us that, as far as he is concerned, it is clear from the proposal that the cabinet is now presenting that it is contrary to the ECHR. So if the Minister invokes that, we will have a very complicated discussion about his own proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u227	Mrs. Wezel, right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u228	Mr. Chairman. The Minister wants to convince us, as he pointed out, that this law is the right way forward, while many parties in this Chamber have just asked whether he would like to respond seriously to the proposal of the Personal Data Authority. Hence the request for the Minister to give serious consideration to this. Mrs Barth rightly states that people have the right to remain silent and not to explain. The problem with these investigations is often that people are challenged to explain something about the case, and sometimes it helps themselves in trouble. That could be a reason not to cooperate with the investigation. You can say that Aled Wolfsen's proposal is correct: first look at the facts; then there will be a conviction; and then see if a punishment or measure is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u229	It's all about the same thing, so it's better to do it all at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u230	Mr President, I can be very brief, because I can agree with what Mrs Barth said. Mr Wolfsen felt obliged to develop an alternative because of his human rights objections. I would therefore very much like to hear some more concrete commitments on how the Minister is going to study this and when we can see the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u231	Let me stress that I want to look at it seriously, just as seriously as I want to look at a suggestion made on the other side, in the House of Representatives, in the debate we had recently on TBs, about a kind of re-evaluation moment after two years. There have been very recent suggestions made by TBs lawyers. I believe that in this debate the suggestion was made that a provisional form of TBs should be introduced. Those are all interesting ideas. But just as quickly weighed on the hand because I received the letter from the Dutch Data Protection Authority only a day or four ago, I do see a number of legal hooks and eyes. The suggestion that was raised here in the debate was to implement the Dutch Data Protection Authority's plan quickly, because then we do not need that arrangement on non-observing observers. I want to remove the illusion that one can easily replace the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u232	I see Mrs Bikker coming too. Mrs. Wezel first and then Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u233	I heard the Minister say: they are interesting ideas. That also sounds like: those are interesting ideas. Can the Minister promise that he will at least ignore this part of the law? So can he promise not to take this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u234	You're probably talking about not going into effect. Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u235	That this part does not enter into force. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u236	No, I'm not going along with that. You can see that the current practice is inadequate in giving good advice when suspects refuse to cooperate in an investigation into the presence of a disorder. You can't force suspects to cooperate, but I do think we need to look into what's needed to get more information to see if there's any reason to identify a disorder. We now see that psychiatrists in the Pieter Baan Centre sometimes come a long way, but have just insufficient control. Then the medical history of previous psychiatric treatments and conditions can play a role in this. I think this should be exceptional, but especially when it comes to people who have committed very serious crimes, where it can have very far-reaching consequences if those people do not receive proper treatment in the TBs, I find it socially irresponsible not to include this in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u237	I'm glad to hear the Minister say it's interesting and he's going to investigate. I would like it to be more specific. How? How is this weighted? How does he see this relative to the rest? My second point, however, is that, as I said in my first speech, I am so afraid that people are not going to seek help and that it actually makes people much more dangerous than they were at first or than we now suspect. Does the minister have a visual on that? How has that been studied? Can he outline a little bit more about that before we talk about whether this is the right plan in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u238	I think this is a fair question, but I'm trying to imagine that you're dealing with a psychiatric disorder and that when you're looking for help, you might be committing a murder or rape later, and that the fact that you've sought help in the past can play a role in this. I cannot imagine that this will play a role in the consideration of seeking early help if that act has not yet occurred.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u239	I can't imagine that in most cases either. But when I look at history, at the cases that lie there, I can imagine that there is a group of of of offenders for whom this has applied. I'm thinking about paedophiles in particular. That's what's under consideration. People are really thinking about how to deal with that. "Calculating," I hear here saying. I'm guessing that's true. I don't have any numbers either. I'm just looking at the few cases I'll find. I really ask the Minister to be more specific on this point. That may also be the case in the second term, but for me this is the most important thing when assessing the current remedy for non-observators. That is where the problem lies. Then we think we'll make society safer, but we'll make it more unsafe. That would be such a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u240	Of course, we must also be keen on how these things work out. It is not for nothing that we keep our finger on the pulse and evaluate it quite soon after this law enters into force. I'm trying to make a show of it. Would people with severe personal disorders or with paedophilia involve this at an early stage? Thus, at an early stage they face the fact that they have a disorder and are willing to seek and undergo treatment for it, but in the event that they have committed a crime they suddenly do not want to cooperate with it anymore, while a possible detection of a disorder can also work at a lower penalty level. I understand that this is a very fair question. We must also be very keen to ensure that this does not happen. But...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u241	Mrs. Strik's gonna ask you a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u242	Maybe...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u243	I don't want to say it's far-fetched, but I can hardly imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u244	I dare not judge the empathy of the Minister. Perhaps that is not so relevant either, but it is simply about the practice of experience that, for example, pedosexuals are indeed afraid to be treated because of the consequences it may have when it is known that they have that ability. People aren't afraid of TBs for nothing either. That's just true, whether it's right or not. Mrs Bikker cited a serious risk. Another risk, which Mr Wolfsen has also indicated, is that people are destroying parts of their medical records, which means we are only further away from home because we know less about them. So there are different risks involved. That is why there are so many objections and concerns in this Chamber. I would ask the Minister to respond to this, but also to become more specific as to the time limit within which he thinks he could complete that study on the alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u245	We can speculate on hypothetical situations for a long time. Should the law be passed, we should certainly keep our finger on the wrist and see if this does not happen. If that's the case, we're having another conversation here. The second question was when are we going to take a serious look at any other structural changes in the system? We are going to do this very seriously this year. Especially in view of all the discussion on TBs and the questions that there are, I think we can make some success this year. But once again, we should not have the illusion that there are easy solutions in this dossier. I think we should also face what we're missing and what the risks are if we didn't do this. At present, every year, people refuse to cooperate in research at the Pieter Baan Centre, which makes it difficult for a judge to establish whether there is a disorder. There may be a penalty, but these patients do not always receive the treatment they need, or at least there are no options that are open when TBs are imposed. I hope that your members, Mr President, will face that risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u246	I now give the floor to Mr Schnabel. You'll be back in a moment, Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u247	Perhaps it is because of the way in which the Minister has just built up his speech. I think I have made it clear in my speech today that I am very inclined to go along with the proposal, precisely in view of the numbers and seriousness of the issues involved. But I don't really understand what's against the idea of setting up a study and seeing what might be another possibility in the future. Now it's like, "I don't think you do." That does not bring us much further, I say to my colleagues. I think you're making an important proposal. You kept saying that everyone would be against it, but my contribution showed that I am not. You didn't go into that at all. On the contrary, I am opposed to putting too much pressure on and making it absolute of medical professional secrecy in a way which is clear that it is being used because it is thought to be beneficial, whereas in those situations it is not really appropriate to make it possible. I'm trying to be as careful as I can. I can also very well imagine that you would be interested in a serious study of the variant presented by Mr Wolfsen. That is further outside the scope of this draft law. Colleagues may think differently, but that is at least my choice. I'd really like to take it apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u248	I think that's a very good line. Even if that research shows that it's interesting, then one could very well exist next to the other. However, the suggestion was in any case raised by a number of spokesmen that there is a good alternative, that may come "in place." Well, at least that is what I hear from Mrs Strik in the affirmative and Mrs Barth tends to do the same. I'd say that's unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u249	It has indeed been presented as an alternative and we would like a study of this. I hear the Minister say that he thinks he can make some success this year. Then it is nice for us to hear something more concrete about it, for example whether we can look forward to the outcome of that study this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u250	Well, that's the idea. If we allow some of these alternatives and variants to be examined, I suspect we will be able to inform you about them after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u251	Mrs Barth on the same point? Finally, very briefly on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u252	I find it interesting in terms of counterproductive effect of this provision that I as a Social Democrat should convince a liberal of the evilness of man, but I am convinced that the calculating behaviour is there in certain groups of people, not only in pedosexuals but also in people with severe personality disorders, such as a narcissistic personality disorder. With regard to the risks you run with those people if you exclude them from care in advance, I would like to ask the Minister if he would like to take this with him in the evaluation and get it back quickly. This is the Secretary of Law. I would also appreciate it if the Minister could say a little more about the point Mrs Wezel just made, namely that people at the stage of being subjected to this measure have not yet been convicted and are therefore, in principle, still innocent. No one has to cooperate in their own conviction. Such an investigation at the Pieter Baan Centre can also encourage people to explain the crime that has taken place or not and their role in it. The risk that you, as Minister for Legal Protection, would have to consider this provision is that you are going to force people to participate in their own condemnation because the appearance becomes: if you do not cooperate and do not explain then we are going to lift your medical confidentiality. That should be a painful point for the Minister for Legal Protection in this provision. So far, however, I do not hear that in the Minister's replies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u253	I am sure Mrs Wezel would like to join us on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the case of abductees, you first have the criminal case and at the end of it is assessed whether there is sufficient evidence. After that, there is an abhorrence. Suddenly, someone's gonna say, "I've made so much money in this hemp business." This while he said before, that hemp trade wasn't mine. Then it could be tactical to go into that withdrawal case and explain how many harvests you've had. The same applies here. For example, in a murder case where there is very little evidence and there is only a DNA trail, it can be tactical to say: there is insufficient evidence, I am not going to cooperate at all because otherwise I have to explain things. The practice is that such a forensic report is also used as evidence, at least for the conviction. Then the consideration could be not to cooperate at all. If there has been a criminal case first and there appears to be sufficient evidence, then it may be a consideration to cooperate at that time and count your buttons. Then it can also be a consideration in the conversation with your lawyer, in the sense of: what would be useful for you and what would benefit you? You may benefit from nursing or treatment. So why doesn't the same apply to withdrawal cases, so that only after the conviction does a forensic investigation take place to see what someone needs in terms of treatment and punishment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u255	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u256	Mrs Wezel actually indicates what the Authority said about personal data in its letter. I just indicated that I want to take a serious look at that. However, it is a significant change in our current criminal procedure law in which the sentence, the application of the penalty level and the question of whether or not a disorder has played a role are ultimately weighed in their entirety. In addition, this possible disorder may also have a penalty-relieving effect. If there is total or partial insanity, this will have consequences for the prison sentence. In criminal cases where TBs are also imposed, prison time is sometimes somewhat lower than in criminal cases where no TBs are imposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u257	You're gonna go to trial and see if there's enough evidence. If there is sufficient evidence, then the next step is the question of what punishment or measure is appropriate. So if you first look at whether there's enough evidence, if you take that step first, then you can say at the next step: okay, now I think there's research to be done. Then a suspect can also consider whether he will cooperate in the investigation, whether it will benefit him. That's taken apart, there's a cut there. I can hear the Minister linking it up now, but this means something else. It has to be proven. That link the minister just made isn't being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u258	I explain what the current practice is and Mrs Wezel indicates how you could possibly do it in the future. I have said that this could be done, and I want to take a serious look at it. But that does require an adjustment of the way we do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u259	Finally, Mrs Wezel. I think we're almost out of it by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u260	Why wasn't that consideration made by this law at the time? And why was this measure chosen, which I consider even more radical? That's why you're attacking doctors' professional secrecy. It is also proportionality and necessity. Why do you bet on such a very heavy measure that we all suffer from? You're already adjusting the Code of Criminal Procedure. Why then not this measure, which in itself is less substantial and could have been put into this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u261	I don't know if it's less significant. I have just indicated that, even if you look at the proposals made by the Personal Data Authority, there are a number of interesting things in it, but that there are also many legal feet and clamps. Let me map that now. I want to take a serious look at that. But the idea that this is a very easy measure that we should have taken a long time ago is almost too good to be true. So I want to take this seriously, but it is not the proposal that is now before us. Secondly, I also think that we should all be careful not to increase the measure towards non-observatories. Several suspects are already being investigated at the Pieter Baan Centre. We've been doing that for a long time. That has never been a major issue, in the sense that the ECHR, the Court of Justice or the judge has said: you cannot do that, you cannot check whether there has been a disorder before there has been a ruling on whether a suspect has also demonstrably committed the crime. And more importantly... anyway, we're going in circles a little bit, Mr. Chairman. The fact that you take the research of the Pieter Baan Centre into the overall consideration and assessment also offers the judge the opportunity to take that into account at the moment when measuring the penalty. The question is whether you can still keep that up if you go to a two-phase structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u262	I haven't had an answer to my question yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u263	I'd save this for the second term. We've talked about it for a long time now, and I'll look at the clock. We have a second deadline tomorrow, and we are also dealing with a time squeeze.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u264	Mr President, I can make a few points here and there, but I think that this is a very thorough discussion of the issue of the refusal of observers. Perhaps I might suggest that if Members had a very specific question about it, it will come back in the second term or now through a rapid interruption. Otherwise, I'd like to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u265	My proposal was and is: second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u266	Second term. I'd be fine with that. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the other major issue that we were discussing today. That is improving the continuity of care. It is important that care does not stop automatically when the criminal record ends. An important means of promoting the connection of the regular care is the competence of the criminal court to issue, at each stage of the journey or subsequent to the criminal record, a care authorisation under the Law mandatory ggz or a withdrawal authorisation under the Wzd. This is regulated by the so-called liaison Article 2.3. The district attorney can make a request for this, but the judge can also decide of his own motion and therefore does not have to wait, I say in the direction of Mrs Strik. For that issue it is required that the criteria of compulsory care of the Law mandatory ggz and of the Law care and coercion are met. The criminal justice officer also follows the procedures laid down in the Law on Health and Enforcement and those procedures have been further developed in the course of the laws, as the Secretary of State of VWS has just mentioned, and thus the coherence between the three legislative proposals has been strengthened. Mr Dercksen, Mrs Bikker and Mrs Strik pointed out that representatives of the Council for Justice and the Public Prosecutor were somewhat critical at the hearing. I regret that in itself. I do not think it is right either, but sometimes this is linked to a number of fundamental considerations that we have made with regard to these legislative proposals. In my view, Mrs Barth challenged me to do so, of sticking to Article 2.3 and to the regimes that it sees fit to do so. My answer to that is yes. On the basis of the comments made by Mr Dercksen and Mrs Strik, I would first of all like to point out that it has always been the intention of the legislator to apply similar criteria to the compulsory admission under the BOPZ Act and the criminal placement in a psychiatric hospital, the BOPZ criminal law. The Public Prosecutor considers that a strict review of the criteria of the Law would create a gap because, in the current situation, it would also prevent insanity-based suspects who would voluntarily wish to be placed in the care now under Article 37 Criminal law being forced into a psychiatric hospital. This would no longer be possible under the new legislation, because forced care can only be dealt with once all the voluntary possibilities have been exhausted. There are a number of comments to be made. First of all, I would like to stress that the remarks made by the prosecution do not concern people who have committed a tbs-worthy fact. In that case, tbs may be imposed. Tbs is also possible when someone is completely insane. These are therefore insanity suspects who have committed acts that are not so serious as to be able to impose TBs and who indicate their willingness to be given voluntary treatment. I do not think that the word 'empty' is entirely appropriate in this context, if you look at the small group of suspects that this would relate to in the future. That forced care cannot be dealt with until all the voluntary alternatives have been exhausted is a very fundamental starting point for the legislative proposals we are discussing from the outset. If we agree on that point of view, I do not see why this principle should suddenly cease to apply when it is the criminal court that imposes the authorisation of care rather than the civil court. Then I come to the Council's criticism of the case law, which focuses on the procedure of the Law mandatory ggz and the Health and Force Act. This is a rule that requires the criminal court to apply civil procedural law. With regard to the fear that this is not workable, I think it will be very difficult in practice. We attach great importance to the uniformity of the procedure. Where possible, it is associated with the regular procedures of both laws, with a view to harmonising procedures, equivalent legal protection and the legal unit. We want to avoid, as in the case of, for example, the criminal BOPZ measure under Article 37, that different criteria are also applied as a result of different procedures and would result in legal inequality. This is all the more true now that the 2.3 authorisation is regular care and will no longer be a criminal measure. In other words, we believe that, and this is how I answer Mrs Barth's question on this point, the procedure as it stands is well designed and, in our view, is also workable. I do not share the Council's fear of the case law, which Mr Dercksen, Mrs Bikker and Mrs Wezel are calling for attention to be given to, namely that, as a result of the possibility of cassation under the Law, compulsory ggz problems arise because that possibility is not available at tbs. We assume that in the event that a TBs still fulfils the condition of extension and TBs is still the appropriate framework for him, the court will also extend the TBs measure. In cases where he considers that to be justified, he may also choose to terminate the compulsory care on a conditional basis. So he can impose different conditions on that. If a person no longer fulfils the conditions for the extension of the TBs, or if TBs are considered to be too heavy a framework, the TBs extension judge may now choose to issue a care authorisation of his own. This care authorisation is also feasible in case of stock and must be implemented within two weeks. Setting cassation has no suspensive effect. All in all, I think that criminals should be able to quickly acquire this new jurisdiction, which is a little more in the civil sphere. Mr Dercksen proposed that Article 37 of the Code of Criminal Law be retained for a while. I do not think this is wise, because then you really get two regimes side by side with different legal protection and different legal status. I don't think that's wise. Mrs Strik asked why the defendant in respect of whom the criminal court grants a care authorisation pursuant to Article 2.3 can appeal against the judgment in his criminal proceedings, but not against the refusal of care authorisation. The short answer to this is: because under the Law mandatory ggz also no appeal is open against the authorisation of care. So the legal status of the 2.3 patients is the same as that of the regular ggz patients, you might say. That is actually part of what these laws aim to do, namely harmonisation. Mr Schnabel indicated that he was concerned about the difference in the composition of the patient population with a care authorisation in the ggz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u267	On the contrary, I have asked questions about the exclusion of appeals in many decisions, including those you now mention. I expected the Secretary of Law to answer those questions. I don't know if I'm completely wrong about that, but maybe the Minister will come to that. What's the reason for that? In particular, because the government itself had given all the arguments in the original proposals as to why it is so important to introduce them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u268	I have said something about harmonisation and why, after a criminal process, when civil law measures are taken, the same regime actually applies as it does for regular ones. I do not know whether that has answered your question on appeal entirely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u269	No, Mr President, that was the question of the coincidence and the difference in it. However, I referred to my more general question as to why the appeal is excluded from numerous decisions on the authorisation of care and even the relocation of the crisis. I hope I can get some answers to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u270	If you don't get an answer, I'd like to take it with you in the second term. Then I can also spar with my colleague about it, because, of course, it mainly concerns the regime under the compulsory ggz Act. Mr. Chairman. Mr Schnabel indicated that he was concerned about the difference in the composition of the patient populations with a care authorisation in the ggz. In his view, this could pose a security risk for these institutions. It is not the intention of the Forensic Care Act to place people in the regular ggz who do not belong there or who could cause danger there. The judge has the possibility under Article 2.3 to place people in the regular ggz, but this option is only intended for situations where the person concerned is also better placed in that regular ggz. This has also been taken into account in the indication. This is done, for example, by the NIFP, which can also make a good assessment of what is important in terms of treatment and security, so that this can be explicitly taken into account in an opinion. Mrs Barth asked a number of questions which also very much relate to how this works in practice and which affect the continuity of care in practice. Think, for example, of the connection between forensic care and regular care. I would like to tell Mrs Barth that we have been running a programme with different stakeholders for some time now, you might say, the Continuity of Care programme. It looks very strongly at what is needed to bring a criminal justice framework and regular care closer together. This does not solve all the problems immediately, but Mrs Barth also asked: what happens when the programme ends? There are already agreements between all the partners involved that will also be met periodically at the end of the programme to see what progress has been made on the follow-up agreements. Then one can keep things in the light with one another that can be better. One thing that plays a role in this is the finding from AEF's report that there would be too few suitable places. Quite specifically, AEF has found that there are actually too few secure places in the regular ggz and in mental disability care, which you need for very serious cases. When a care authorisation under Article 2.3 is imposed, such a place may be needed. That is far from the case in all cases. As regards the progress in increasing the supply of secure places, there are also a lot of conversations between regular care. I am also talking about this with my colleague, the Secretary of State of the United States of America, to see if we can come up with so-called field standards, with agreements on numbers of places, the provision of secure care, the necessary capacity and the conditions under which they can be made available. Our ambition will be to have it ready by 1 April. I also had a taste of some concerns with Mrs Barth about the connection of disability care with all this kind of arrangement. I'd like to dive into that one more time. I had the impression that VGN participates well. For example, VGN is also involved in this programme in both the steering group and the working group. My predecessor also concluded a covenant of forensic concern with a lot of improvements and agreements over and over again, where they are one of the covenant partners, and frankly I would like to keep it that way. For example, they are also involved in the development of field standards. But if you ask me specifically to pay particular attention to that, I am happy to do so. The same applies to probation, because, as Mrs Barth also points out, that is an important partner in all of this. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to turn to a number of organisational aspects, because that is the essence of this organizational law, a law that contains regulations relating to forensic institutions: procurement, financing, indication, data processing, control. A number of questions have been asked about this, and with regard to the TBs institutions, Mr Van Dijk asked whether sufficient measures were being taken to prevent the high turnover of staff. That too is something you of course do not regulate with a law, but several agreements have been made with the forensic care sector. Take, for example, the 2013 Multiannual Covenant or the Quality Programme for Forensic Care, which looks at both quality assurance and what it takes to achieve it, and staff are also incredibly important. I have the impression that the sector is also working very hard to attract and retain sufficiently qualified staff, as well as to train the people who work there. A good staff policy also requires a safe working environment. Of this, one could say that the legislative proposals we are discussing today are intended to contribute to this, for example because, for ggz patients who are in a TBs clinic, a number of management powers of the Principles Law will be made available to them and applied accordingly. So in that sense, this bill will also help. Then Mrs Barth challenged me by suggesting that you should actually choose, if you look at this law: either you stay in the execution of forensic care by pulling it towards you and arranging it administratively, or you do it through some kind of purchasing relationship. Why choose the construct as laid down here, where you rely on private institutions but create far-reaching powers to intervene? This is closely linked to the fact that the implementation of the TBs relates to a very limited number of institutions, where in my view it is really necessary to have a stick behind the door for individual cases where things can really go wrong. After all, this is a serious target group which has committed serious crimes and which is also specifically at stake in the field of social security. So I do not want to get into the situation that I have to go to the Chamber to say that there is an unsafe situation in a TBs clinic, but that I do not really have powers to act against it. That is the background to the powers that have been taken into account in this legislative proposal, which, of course, cannot be applied if you do not like the price negotiated, and there really must be matters going on in the security sphere or in the operational sphere which may pose a danger and which require you to act. Mr Derksen had a question about powers. Can you act now enough if there are any abuses? This kind of power will help if it relates to the total institution. Of course, we often do not want it to come to this. There may be incidents despite all the strict requirements. I can tell you that these incidents are also always part of conversations between the clinic and the Justice Department, and that DJI regularly asks for a so-called internal investigation. How did something happen and what can an institution do to prevent it from happening in the future? If that is not enough, there is also an inspection that can carry out an investigation at any time there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u271	Unfortunately, in Den Dolder, we have found that supervision has failed. You have taken a measure after a terrible incident, but also after the neighborhood experienced for years the nuisance of drug trafficking, drug use in playgrounds and so on. We are dealing not only with the board of that clinic that did not want to know about it, but also with a mayor who did not pay attention to it. Can you explain to me more specifically how you are going to enforce this law much tighter in the future, so that this sort of thing does not happen anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u272	One hundred percent guarantee that things won't happen again, I can't give them. But if there are genuine abuses or incidents, we can act against them. These may be incidents that come to light because there are complaints from the environment. That is why I think it is important to keep in close contact with mayors of the municipalities in which these institutions are located. However, it may also have another reason. It's some kind of escalation. You're gonna sit down with the institution first: what's going on, did you investigate it yourself? If that's not enough, you can have an inspection conducted. This has happened in the case of the clinic in Den Dolder. There are then a number of recommendations that the institution should also address. With tbs settings, a limited number of institutions on which we are very dependent and where the target group is of course the hardest, we think that you still need a number of additional escalation options that are described in this law. In that respect, this law will help us in those extreme cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u273	I still have some doubts as to whether this is the case when I hear your explanation. You say you're also dependent on the signals from the neighborhood, the mayor and the clinic. That's where it went wrong. As I said in my contribution, there were car fires at the beginning of last year. There was one every week. People went to Bilthoven to park because cars were on fire. I know a lot of people in the neighborhood, and I heard a lot from neighborhood agents. It soon became clear where it came from, but it should not be told. Can you preemptively implement a control tool so that we can pass those people who do not want to know so that you can determine for yourself that sort of thing? I hear the ladies who treat say, "No drugs are used, because we control it." You've read it as well as I have; that's bullshit. How do we prevent us from being dependent on the people who seem to want to tell the facts on the table that it is wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u274	It starts with openness and honesty about these things. We shouldn't turn our faces away from things that don't go well. We have to face the fact that if there are complaints somewhere, you can deny that this has to do with an institution, but that it might be better to investigate whether that is actually the case, because you can do something about it. I've only just been here a few days. I am also dealing with the prison system and also with the forensic institutions. We just have to be honest and open when things don't go well, because we can learn from that. That would also be my call to local drivers. If you have such an institution in your congregation, keep short lines, don't look away and pull the bell if you need us to do something about it. If we do not receive signals or receive them too late, it will also be difficult for us to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u275	Finally, Mr. Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u276	You will understand that I find this somewhat unsatisfactory. On the other hand, I understand very well that I am asking a very complicated question. For example, let us focus on drug use. If the clinic says "we check for drugs and we don't think anything is being used here because we do urine tests, for example," you could of course think about how to control it centrally. I understand it's a difficult question. Maybe it should also come between the directors of that clinic and the mayor. But if we really want to do so, there might be instruments to be able to look a little further into that clinic than at the time of the suffering.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u277	All I can give you is that there is, of course, regular supervision. But that's less frequent than when there are specific signals. In that sense, it is risk-driven. As soon as we get cause or signals that something is going on, we ask our inspection at such a time to monitor it specifically, but otherwise it will be involved in regular supervision. It's not like nobody's ever gonna show up, but you could say it's less intense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u278	I hear Mr. Dercksen telling me what's going on nearby. There was an investigation by the IGZ into the Michael P case. What does the IGZ do? She makes a report in which she writes that she has made a tour through the institution. The result of the research in October and November is that the care was good. Then I think: what is the point of such a conclusion as a minister? The problem of society, the House of Representatives and, I think, the Minister is: how can this happen and how do I keep the neighborhood safe? The question to the Minister is: why is the IGZ doing such an investigation? Was the question whether the care was good also the assignment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u279	Yeah, that was the question we asked. Moreover, that question was more extensive, because it looked not only at the concerns, but also at the security situation and at a number of other issues. The inspection's conclusion wasn't just that it was good. I really want to refer to the report she issued last month. It contains a number of firm conclusions, after which I have taken a number of firm measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u280	But can you indicate what has been improved in that institution? Then what went wrong? Why could Michael P. be out there? Has the IGZ's investigation been sufficient? Is that gonna help you? Is this gonna be prevented next time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u281	This is a little out of order, Mrs Wezel. I think we should stick to the legislation before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u282	The question I asked earlier was about the actions of the IGZ. The IGZ has been investigating the situation around Michael P. What went wrong in that forensic facility? It is important that we learn lessons for the future in the area of forensic care, hence my question to the Minister. We're talking about the Wet forensic care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u283	I can say a few words about it. I thought it was a good report with some firm conclusions, but perhaps Mrs Wezel says: I found this part unsatisfactory. But then she'd have to be a little more specific.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u284	I've read it, too, but I must have read something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u285	I'd still like to interrupt. It was about the investigation into an institution. In order to address specifically the content of this one report, however interesting it may be, I think that it goes a little further than the order of the debate. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u286	What matters to me is whether the IGZ is doing the right thing. I have asked questions about this, and I would like an answer to that. Does the IGZ take sufficient position in this and inform the Minister sufficiently or should there be a certain scaling-up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u287	In particular, I have a relationship with the inspection that deals with the police and the justice system. The IGJ set up is involved in these investigations, but of course falls under the responsibility of my colleagues. We have jointly asked for a number of investigations, two to be precise. The first study had to answer the question of whether it was still safe and responsible to place forensic patients in the institution. The first study did not look at the detention course of Michael P. This led to a report with a number of critical findings. And I have the impression that we have taken a number of far-reaching measures to put the management situation in the clinic at level. The second investigation is ongoing. That is, by the way, in the same letter that I sent to the Chamber. That goes more specifically into the case. But it is very difficult to make specific statements about this in advance, at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u288	I have a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u289	Very, very briefly on this point, Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u290	Yes. Does that report... does that investigation affect this law? Or do you say the law is good as it is? Because of course that law has been there since 2011. Or should there be an update to the law, also in response to the further results of this investigation? What do you expect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u291	The first report gives no reason to revise this law. Of course, I do not know what the conclusions of the second report are, which deals with the specific case. But I'm trying to imagine something. I also cannot foresee one-two-three why that would have an effect on this law. You may find that things have not gone well, but that is quite different from the legal framework that is being put in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u292	For the record, Minister, I really want to be ready by 1:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u293	That would be worth a sweet thing to me, Mr. Chairman. My colleague has already said something about the provision of information to Mr Schnabel. If he was satisfied with that, I can skip the specific questions. Otherwise, it may also come back in the second term. I think I can briefly reflect on the entry into force of the Forensic Care Act. Mrs Oomen asked a question about this, and Mr De Jonge already mentioned this: for the other two laws, that is 1-12020. I tend to adhere to the Forensic Care Act to the date of 1 January 2019 published this summer. I know that there are several parties who say: take the time for implementation. On the other hand, I see that work is already largely in progress in accordance with the organizational provisions of the Forensic Care Act on the basis of the current interim decision. I therefore see no reason to say that this law is leading to a very radical redesign of existing processes or supply chain information that would take more time to enter into force. In other words, the Forensic Care Act can enter into force on 1 January 2019. Exception to this is the interconnection Article 2.3. Because if you allow that to happen in the past, you first ask the OM, case law and lawyer to act on the basis of the old BOPZ Act and then switch to the compulsory ggz and the Wzd Act. That seems to me to be unwise. So let's get that on 1-1-2020. The question is, of course, what this means for the continuity of care. The program's running. Also Article 2.5 simply enters into force on 1 January, so I think that, on the basis of the old BOPZ Act, for example, a number of procedures can be started that contribute to this continuity of care. Mr. Chairman. Very briefly a few things about the role of the prosecutor in the mandatory ggz. Contrary to what is currently the case under the BOPZ Act, the compulsory ggz Act assumes a more active interpretation of the applicant's role. The D.A.'s office has an applicant's role now, but it's becoming more active. Mrs Strik has thus expressed her reservations as to whether the prosecution is prepared and able to fulfil that role. We actually think that is the case. For example, a number of measures have been implemented in the Social Security Improvement Programme. There are training courses, process descriptions, work instructions. Additional officers and secretaries shall be trained. The outdated information system of the Public Prosecutor is being revised with a view to the information systems necessary to comply with the mandatory ggz Act. I really have the impression that the D.A. is taking this seriously. We have also made it possible to do this with some financial resources. Specifically with regard to the presence of the officer at the hearing, Mrs De Bruijn and Mrs Bikker asked when it is obvious that the officer should be present and whether other chain partners or stakeholders should not also have a voice in determining the need for that presence. Whether that is obvious naturally depends on case to case. First of all, it's up to the D.A. to assess that. This will involve, inter alia, the amount of information already contained in the file before the court. In addition, you could say that there is talk of communicating vessels: the better and more filled the file, the less necessary there will usually be for an oral explanation by the officer at the hearing. The other way around, for example, there may be specific things in the file, for example in the area of justice, on the basis of which it is desirable that the officer be present. In the pilots run under the BOPZ Act, a number of experiences have also been gained with where, in particular, the presence of the officer at the hearing is most valuable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u294	A brief interruption, Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u295	Those pilots also showed that it wasn't valuable at a lot of times. I ask the Minister whether he can also include this article in the review after three years provided for in the legislative proposal, precisely to see whether this has added value or whether we should look at other means.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u296	That seems to me to be a very good point. I'm getting to some varia. That's ripe and green. I'm trying to get through it fast. Mr Dercksen asked whether we could come to the conclusion that the system of youth TBs is not working. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that a number of changes have been made. In the past, we sometimes stumbled upon the fact that the time you had to make a PIJ measure work really well was too short. If there is a risk of recurrence, it is now possible to convert a PIJ measure into TBs. With the applicable transitional law, this applies to facts committed after 2014. When I look at its effectiveness and how it is achieved, I see that the relapse rates have really improved in recent years. In the case of people who have been subject to a measure, this figure was almost 21 in 2003 and slightly more than 13. Of course you want to reduce that, but you can see that this helps. Mr Dercksen also asked what we do with people who come from abroad. They are in principle prosecuted in the same way in law as Dutch people. The same applies to the implementation of sanctions, including a TBS measure. Tbs with a non-Dutch nationality may eventually be declared undesirable. That would mean that they would have to leave the country after their punishment. This means that during the punishment and during the measure everything that is done about reintegration and re-socialisation is not applied. We want these people to leave at the end of their sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u297	Very briefly, Mr. Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u298	You say it's possible. My question is whether we can't just do that by default. This gentleman has committed a murder in broad daylight. It can't be explained to society that we're all going to have to pay for those people's tbs for a decade or so later. The one who had even been in a psychiatric clinic in Poland. Can't we just make it standard that we take those kind of people after serving their punishment by the head and ass and squeezing the country out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u299	I would find that unwise, because that would mean that we do not give that punishment to people who have to serve a sentence or a measure, simply because we can expel them from the country. We do this kind of thing partly from the point of view of retaliation. Then I think that someone who has committed a criminal offence here on Dutch territory should also be punished for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u300	Finally, Mr. Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u301	We agree on that. I also said if he served his sentence here, let's deliver him to the country of origin. There they can get to work, with yet another psychiatric TB-like measure. What are we supposed to do that for? Surely we cannot bring in all the patients from the Schengen countries and treat them here? Isn't that priceless and inexplicable to the Dutch people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u302	I don't think we're bringing them in either. Mrs. Strik asked about legal aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u303	I can't get an answer to the question. I would like you to take that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u304	Mr. Dercksen, you can come back to this in the second term. Given the hour of the day, I think this is gonna be something for the second term tomorrow. Oh, yeah, that's today, but the second term will be later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u305	Mrs. Strik asked about legal aid. That's actually a much bigger file. There is a huge challenge there to see how we can use the resources we have available for legal aid in a good way. Van der Meer indicates that this is extremely difficult. I said to the House of Representatives that I attach great importance to resting on this dossier and to see this year with all the partners whether we can come to a revision of the system. This will also be part of that. Mrs. Barth asked about the Attorney General's report at the Supreme Court. He says: in the future law mandatory ggz it is all well arranged, but how do we do it in the meantime? I can tell you that on the issue of the police's competence to provide certain police data to the prosecution, I believe that the gap referred to by Mrs Barth is an authorisation decision made under the Police Data Act. This was published on 21 December and has now entered into force. I think that's exactly what it's gonna do to seal that hole. Finally, the issue of after-care. Actually, that's a little wider. Mrs Wezel mentioned this, but I think Mrs Barth also asked for it. What can you do, apart from forensic care, to ensure that people go back well, into society, and not repeat themselves, and what do you do when there are psychiatric disorders? In general, after-care actually starts on the day prisoners are brought in. Then you'll see what's needed after detention. Then you also have conversations with the municipality: what can you do to ensure that someone is taken care of when he is released? When there are psychiatric disorders, when you talk to DJI people, they indicate that there is an increasing number of psychiatric disorders, sometimes you see that the relatively short stay in detention makes it difficult to tackle them very well and fully. This also requires in the care and in the treatment of possible disorders or psychiatric conditions that you actually continue after someone is released. These laws certainly help, but I would also like to point out a number of ongoing pilots with so-called care officers, who want to guarantee a kind of continuous line of care. In the spring I will come to the House of Representatives, but you can also take note of it, with a broader view of the prison system: what is needed to better link the two objectives of the prison system, namely, on the one hand, retaliation and the application of penalties and, on the other hand, the prevention of repetition, the reduction of relapses, to allow that hand to go hand in hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u306	Mrs. Barth, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u307	I didn't get an answer to my question about the exchange of information. It wasn't about the police information. I was concerned with the exchange between the Public Prosecutor's Office, the care and the police under the compulsory ggz Act. The Attorney General at the Supreme Court has indicated that under the Law mandatory ggz the exchange of information previously made by the Public Prosecutor without a legal basis, or may be. My specific question was: how does the Minister deal with the implementation of those provisions in the compulsory ggz Act? Is he gonna speed it up? Or does he keep it waiting, with the overall implementation? And if he keeps it waiting, how's he gonna fill that gap? This cannot be done by means of a decision, because it is a matter of legal provisions. The Minister may also come back to this in the second term, but I would like an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u308	Well, that's what you're gonna get. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u309	Mrs Wezel, one question, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u310	Could the Minister undertake to respond in writing to the question raised by the October 2017 Criminal and Youth Protection Council's investigation on the lack of cooperation between municipalities, prisons and probation and on how this can be improved? That is in the areas of aftercare, identity, referral, accommodation, income, care, debt issues, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u311	The answer to that is: yes, because such advice from the RSJ always gets a response from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u312	And we'll get a copy of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u313	Normally, the House of Representatives gets it, but if you want it, you'll also get a copy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u314	Mrs Wezel, I told you there could be one more interruption. You can say something soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u315	I have not yet received answers to all my questions. I would like answers to my questions about secure forensic care and specialist youth care, if that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u316	Then you will have to repeat those questions briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u317	Mrs Wezel can repeat her question and you may then reply tomorrow in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u318	It would be nice if I too could get answers to my questions, just like the others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u319	Then don't look at me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u320	Well, you give me that space...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u321	Mrs Wezel, you may repeat your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u322	Everyone wants to leave, but that's how it's planned. I can't help it, either. So it would be nice if I could get answers to my questions, if you would allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u323	I have allowed you to repeat the questions, because the Minister no longer knows the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u324	Thank you. It was about the article in the Volkskrant. How does the Minister intend to address the reduction in the number of places available for specialised youth care and waiting lists? Do the ministers recognise that the municipalities want to pay less and less for this care? What are the Ministers' views on this? Is the temporary mobilisation of 45 million sufficient? The questions related to secure forensic care relate to the average duration of tbs in 2017. Has it been reduced to eight years? Has there been an increase in the number of outpatient TBs treatments? What are the effects of this on the social position and the recurrence of the treated TBs? The final question is: how do the ministers intend to monitor whether the forensic care provided is effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u325	I would like to take up the question relating to forensic care, because I think it is in my colleague's area of specialized youth care, the first question. He will return to that tomorrow in second term. Within the forensic care, and specifically the TBs, the treatment time has indeed fallen somewhat in recent years, after it had accumulated a number of years before. We are following this very closely, by looking at the impact of this on the population, and in particular whether we are seeing that population in the police and the judiciary. In this respect, the repeated figures are very important to us. So if you ask how we monitor this, I would say that this is one of the most important indicators involved. Despite the fact that the treatment time has become somewhat shorter, I am glad to see no immediate increase in the relapse. I think that is only a positive development.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u326	I understand you're ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u327	Unless there are any questions, Mr. Chairman. I'm willing to continue until you send us home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u328	Thank you. In that case, all I have to say is the next two sentences. I shall suspend the debate until 9.30 a.m. this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-15-eerstekamer-3.u329	And I'm suspending the meeting for the break until 9:30.
