ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on abuses in nursing home care. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The black book of Thebe, the stocking standards for the nursing home care of the Centraal Planningbureau, Map care choices and plan Working in the care. Of course, you are wondering what these things have to do with each other. Well, Mr. Chairman, we are of course shocked by the situation at the care organisation Thebe and the 305 abuses reported there by employees. A resident who died because she only went to the bathroom and died, a client who had forgotten at night and was found in a wheelchair, works with the stopwatch, a resident who chokes and dies at a joint breakfast. It's just a few examples that are reported in this black book. How did it come to this? Of course, there are always too few people in care, but how did it come to this? Over the last few years, care has been drastically cut back and this has led to 77 000 people being laid off. We have tried to propose alternatives, alternatives that have not reached healthcare choices. Such piles, literally a meter of paper. And what is the solution to these abuses? Then we're talking about working in the minister's care. It identifies the plans which were not good enough for Care Choices and which have never been able to provide alternatives to those cuts and which have created additional abuses. That's my concern. I have two questions for the Minister. 1. Is he willing to let the Central Planning Bureau pass on the plan Working in healthcare? I would very much like the Central Planning Office to give money and resources, of course. 2. What is he going to do about the situation now, the situation that now exists in the nursing homes with the staff where there is a shortage? The report with the Centraal Planbureau's billing is already a year old, dated 16 February 2017. That says that if you want to have an occupation of two out of eight in peak times, you need 2 billion euros. That money won't be there for four years. Coming year or this year, there's only 435 million available. The problem that exists at Thebes now exists and continues to exist. It exists everywhere, because you need 37,000 full-time employees to create the situation that there will be a standard of two care workers on eight residents during peak times. I say to the Minister: nice, that planning for 2023, fine, let it count, but much more important is now, 2018. Now the people are needed. There are currently 130,000 vacancies in the care sector. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you. Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you, Mr President. This evening we are debating abuses in nursing care, which are written down in a black book, with no less than 305 abuses within one healthcare provider. I would like to mention a few. Too little attention to the needs of clients, especially now that levels 1 and 2 are out, while they are also so badly needed in care. I spoke to a colleague who was anxious to attend an education and was not allowed to do so. I think that's really unfair. If your shift starts at 4:00 p.m. until 11:00 p.m., you'll only get paid for five three-quarter hours. You're barely getting paid for accessibility. If you don't have a client for an hour, you don't get paid. A lot is asked of you, but on your own time. The report on abuses identifies three major problems: lack of staff, lack of time and lack of appreciation. The minister doesn't want work in care to be associated with misery. It has to be another place where you want to work. He starts an image campaign to make working in care more attractive. I fully agree with him that it is important to talk about care again with enthusiasm and pride, but without improving working conditions, an image campaign will not work. Mr President, then there is the lack of staff. The Minister presented his plans to address the employment problem. They are good proposals, but as far as GroenLinks is concerned, the focus is still too much on attracting new staff. While we open the front door as widely as possible to new people in care, the back door is still open. The action programme says that we need to get a better idea of the reasons for the outflow, but do we not know long ago? Too much workload, too much administration, too little autonomy, small contracts and flex contracts. What is the Minister going to do to keep the people who are now working in the care sector? In view of the acute situation, improvements in these working conditions should be made in the short term. We have to close the back door again! I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In a nursing home, not only level 5 nurses work. The caregivers and the helpers are also extremely important. Because care is not only medical, it is also about well-being: a good conversation, in time to go to the bathroom, have time to eat nice and good and don't have to wait too long for the moment you can get a shower. That plays a very important role in one's well-being. In these activities, helpers and caregivers can play an important role, but we see that many of these tasks are done precisely by level 5 nurses. This increases the workload, as shown by the black book about the abuses. What's the Minister gonna do about this? As far as he is concerned, is this also part of the task redeployment he is talking about in the action programme? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In recent weeks, we have talked to this minister about nursing care. Again and again we hear that the situation in the nursing homes will now really improve quickly. Money is available and people are hired to reduce the workload. But the question is: if all this is so, why are we still getting reports about nursing homes that employ fewer staff and about nursing homes where there really are too few people to guarantee proper care? A 80-year-old man sends me an e-mail about the nursing home where his wife lives. He writes: "It is a small project with twenty-eight residents and four groups of seven residents. There is one nurse on a group of seven and in the night shift one nurse for the twenty-eight residents. It's a closed ward with residents most of whom need intensive dementia care. The regional manager says she doesn't have any money for more staff. There is not enough attention to be paid to the inhabitants. It runs on a few volunteers and interns." I think a lot of people feel like it's rubbing here. One in seven during the day, that's just too little and one in twenty-eight, that's very tight and dangerous, especially if several things go wrong at the same time. And so it does, because this gentleman continues in his mail: "My wife was found on October 1st last year on the morning shift on the floor of her bedroom because of the bad occupation at night, resulting in a back damage. Moreover, temporary workers are scheduled again, while the formation is complete according to the manager." We get a lot of stories like this and these are not just stories from people living in nursing homes but also stories from people working in nursing homes. Someone lets me know that an employee reports that despite the promised money, fewer people are being deployed. Does the Minister recognize these signals? Is it true that even today, even this week, there are nursing homes where fewer people are employed and fewer people are hired when there is money available? If EUR 435 million is already available for additional staff this year, why are the residents not aware of this? If 7 000 extra people are to be deployed this year, why are we getting reports that fewer people are being deployed? The SP has long argued for a binding occupation standard, so at least two caregivers out of eight residents. And there must also be sufficient caregivers present at night. Unfortunately, the agreements that are now in place are soft as butter. So I now want clear answers from the Minister on how the money is actually being used, how staff are being deployed and when there are clear standards that drivers need to meet in order to ensure good care and prevent structural under-employment. I hope that today the Minister will be able to come up with better answers than reflections on the long-term availability of money and an action plan. I just want to know how many people have already been deployed and where the money is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u7	Thank you. Mrs Dijksma has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u8	Mr. Chairman. When he took office, this Minister made a very important promise to society and to all of us. That promise was about nursing care. He said, "Grandma's gonna notice." That may sound very simple, but I think it might be very complicated in practice to do that. But it's something that has to succeed. With regard to the funds that are now available, the Minister himself says that the money is no longer the problem. A major problem lies in the question: how can we, even in the future, get enough people to deliver all this care? I wanted to use my term today to do something I wanted to do earlier this week but couldn't do because the questions in question didn't go through, namely ask for attention to a survey by the association for nurses V&VN that came out this week. This association has asked 2,100 employees about working in healthcare, what prevents them from working more, for example, and what they think of the situation at the moment. There are a number of interesting things that emerge from that survey. One of the simple but also important things is that I say it out of my head, 68% says: we actually need to make a little more money. Earlier, the Minister referred this discussion only to the negotiating table. He said in a debate with the Chamber: I am not going to negotiate; that is what employers and employees do. That is correct, but in the end it is our all responsibility that this should also lead to an outcome that is attractive enough for people to work in care. A second interesting result from that survey was the following. The cabinet now believes that a lot of extra jobs can be created by increasing contracts, but the nurses' research shows precisely that by now, I believe, most of them have been working more than their contract actually requires to do all the work for 11 hours on average. I would therefore like a response from the Minister to this investigation, also in the light of the task he himself has put forward, namely: something really needs to change, and it must be done quickly. Grandma was supposed to notice next year. That must therefore be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u9	Thank you. Mrs Sazias of 50PLUS has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, for the umpteenth time, we are talking about abuses in nursing care. At the end of last year, we were able to read shocking reports about elderly people in a nursing home who have to lie in their own stool for days. Of the week, I spoke to a 100-year-old man in a nursing home, about the 100-year-old but with a crystal clear mind. This man had to go to the bathroom very badly and had to wait at least two hours for that. Finally he was rolled into the toilet, and just before he was there, he peed in his pants, resulting in the wind coming from the caretaker. Of course, that's not possible. At the same time, we must realise that the pressure on nursing staff is enormous and that you may not blame her, in this case, even if it is something we cannot accept. The chronic staff shortage, together with the deployment of flex and temporary workers, is simply the underlying cause. Then we can release so many image campaigns, which also cost a lot of money, but when healthcare companies deal with their staff like we saw at Carinova this week, for example, we can't get any further. In addition, you can see that there is a culture of fear in some nursing homes. You might think that the Health and Youth Inspectorate would intervene in so many reports, but in the case of Thebe it saw no reason to keep additional checks. How can there be such a big difference between the experiences of care workers in a nursing home and the views of the inspection? We would like a response to that. Is the inspection sufficiently detailed to be monitored? Finally. The IGJ's report "Learning notifications openly" states that out of 281 mandatory notifications received from healthcare providers during the 2016-2017 inspection, the situation has led to the death of a client in 120 cases. Then it's mostly about fall and tile incidents. We find that a shocking number. Can the Minister indicate how that is possible and what he is going to do about it? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u11	Thank you. I call Mr Slootweg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In Thebe's blackbook there are things that I do recognize from the conversations I sometimes have with my wife at the kitchen table. It has also often highlighted how the lack of staff in its situation is really a problem to be able to do good and loving work. Despite the space that the coalition agreement offers, the rising 2.1 billion, I also know that we cannot give the Dutch who live in a nursing home here tonight the guarantee that no more things will go wrong in the future. However, we do believe that we can follow up on an important peripheral condition, namely money to enable more people to be hired. That is why we have taken note with interest of the government's incentive plans to make work in the care sector attractive. But we certainly haven't gotten there with that either. The cabinet hopes to be able to present plans to the Chamber before the summer, which states which rules can be deleted, but what does this mean for the introduction? Does this mean that such rules will expire after the summer, or can this only take place in the new year? In any case, is it not wise to organise permanent scrapings, so that every time we look at how sensible certain rules are still? How does the Minister view the permanent organisation of scrapings? Finally, the financial impetus in nursing care should lead to a quality improvement that drivers will be assessed on. Does the Minister have any idea what it will mean if this assessment is not sufficient for an institution? Does this mean that the Minister expects the Supervisory Board to intervene in an inadequate assessment of a director, or is this left to the IGJ? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u13	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Hermans of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u14	Mr. Chairman. After visiting a family member in a nursing home you want to be able to close the door behind you in the knowledge that your loved one is in good hands, while you are sure that he or she will receive medicine in time and that there is time for a walk or a game in the living room. Care in the nursing home is care in the final phase of life, in which you can no longer do everything and in which you are also just dependent, a stage that is sad for that very reason. Unfortunately, the very best and the most loving care doesn't change that, but that loving and good care is incredibly important to make the time in the nursing home, within all the constraints that exist, as fine as possible, so that it feels as much as at home as your own home. Yet this is not yet the case in every nursing home. Therefore, it is good that there is a quality framework, so that it is now clear for every nursing home what good and loving care needs to meet. But good care is given not by paper or by a quality framework, but by people. Investing in more healthcare professionals is therefore an important step that we must and will also take. The challenge is to find and interest enough people to take care of our older people and to support and treat them, just as Mrs Ellemeet said, in a mix of good levels of education and backgrounds. For that, we must talk proudly about our care and our nursing homes, but we must also make sure that our healthcare professionals get the space and feel the space to practice their work, their profession and that they can spend their time taking care of residents and not filling in endless papers and registrations. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, many good things are already happening, but of course it can always be better. The VVD is therefore curious about the programme announced by the Minister on this subject, about the proposals in the program to continue working on good and loving care that feels as much as at home as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u15	Mrs. Agema has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u16	I understand that at the VVD campaign offices, it was thought that the word "loveful" should be spoken as often as possible when it comes to care for the elderly. I would like to ask the VVD what is loving about firing 77,000 employees, closing the nursing homes, removing 90% of the daily spending on dementias, to the abuses we are discussing here today. Too few people die simply because of their lack of staff. What's loving about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u17	Mr. Chairman. We are coming out of a serious economic crisis. The previous cabinet has had to take violent and difficult measures that we have all felt. That wasn't funny, but it was necessary to be where we are right now. If you've lost your job in the past few years in any place, but certainly in the care, and if we're all crying out the loudest that we need you so badly in the care, then I understand very well that that feels crazy and more than that, very weird and unjust. But I do hope that the love of these people for the profession overcomes their feeling to choose care again and to go back to work in care. I believe that I too should contribute to this here in The Hague by highlighting the beautiful aspects of the profession, the many things that go well in the nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u18	The VVD has made the elderly pay the bill for the crisis. We will hear that again from Mrs Hermans. During the crisis, 77.000 people were released from nursing homes and nursing homes. There's a screaming shortage now. Not only do we discuss this in the overview of abuses at Thebes. We all know that an investment of EUR 2 billion is needed to bring back 77 000 people, including part-time workers. And then really where the VVD wants to take the word "lovefully" in the mouth. I'd say shame on you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u19	Mr. Chairman. I didn't hear a question, so I'm sticking to my previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u20	Thank you. The Minister has indicated his intention to suspend for about eight minutes, so I will resume the sitting just before 7.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u21	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your questions. Indeed, it is not the first time that we have talked about nursing care and probably not the last. In any case, I would hope that we will discuss it very regularly, because we have a great task to do. I want to group the questions asked around three themes. I believe that it is about monitoring and Thebes and how we intervene when there are abuses, it is also about the quality framework and the steps we are taking to make that quality framework a reality, and finally it is about everything that has to do with the labour market. Mr. Chairman. Before I answer in those blocks, I would like to make a general comment on the title of this debate. The title of this debate is 'Mistances in nursing care' and I would like to make two comments on this. If something's wrong, if something's wrong, if something's wrong with the care, we need it on the table. That's the first thing. We must not wipe it under the table, and we must take the appropriate measures to ensure that it meets the quality requirements we have set together here as soon as possible. We have a Health Care Inspectorate that is alert and assertive, and that intervenes strongly if necessary. That is the first thing I would like to say. The second thing I want to say is that I think we should be careful when using terms like'misfits', at least that we should be careful when using these terms too easily, because that often does not do justice to the work done in nursing care. However, regardless of whether we are actually doing enough justice to nursing care if we so easily use terms like "miscarriages" in our mouths, this is not very inviting to work there. That is certainly true if you want it to be an attractive sector, and we have just found out that, in my opinion, this is the greatest task that will happen in the coming period. Speaking about nursing home care in terms of everything that would not go well there is also not very inviting for the elderly or their family to take the step to a nursing home, which is sometimes just necessary. Again: that's never a reason not to just name things that don't go well, too, and then to be able to deal with them, but it is a reason to "speak two words," I would say, and still continue to paint a nuanced picture and do justice to the good work that happens there. Then the questions. First, the one about the inspection and her role. The Health Inspectorate shall monitor the quality of care by carrying out risk-based monitoring and incident monitoring. Those are the two forms of supervision. In order to get a good picture of these risks, different elements are used. The inspection does this by, for example, making use of relevant information from investigations into the mandatory emergency reports, which I shall come back to in a moment, in response to Mrs Sazias's questions and by keeping a close eye on the financial situation, as well as scores on quality indicators, public information, information from earlier monitoring and personnel information such as absenteeism. In addition, the IGJ uses notifications from the Dutch National Contact Point. Anyone who is concerned about a situation in the nursing home care can report this to the National Health Service, and uses the inspection to consider whether they should be concerned about the location in question and whether it should be used to monitor it. This means that all the institutions will be visited over the next four years. That almost always happens unannounced, not to see any fake reality either. The monitoring shall be combined with an interview with the driver and the supervisory board, and the outcome of that visit shall determine whether further monitoring is necessary. Then there is a whole arsenal of enforcement possibilities. Thebes are, of course, also subject to supervision. That is just one of the institutions. There is now, in itself, just a regular supervisory arrangement, so there are no more stringent measures or anything like that. It is true that, in my view, the alertness of the inspection carried out by the Commission shows that a number of reports from that black book were also opposed to a White Paper, and there was a client council which then withdrew from it and thus gave rise to the inspection to ask the institution to investigate it. The inspection then looks again at whether this has been adequately investigated and whether it has been handled sufficiently seriously. In short, I just want to say that I think we have a system of supervision that is appropriate to the current state of the sector. I am also committed to this, because I think that this way we can also apply the right interventions to the right institutions at the right time. Then I have two questions about that surveillance. The first is that of Mrs Sazias, who is concerned with the monitoring of disasters. It refers to a report containing the number of reported calamities. I think the first thing that's important to explain is that the inspection always asks that that's just a legal obligation for institutions to report calamities. A calamity is a case, an incident involving death or serious injury. That is the formulation of what is meant by calamity. There are about 130,000 clients in nursing care. If there is indeed a number of hundreds of reports, it is because it has to be. Institutions are obliged to do so. Then it's always because something serious has happened. Taken on its own, that doesn't make any sense. Not every incident can of course be linked to bad care. So I do think we should be careful with the conclusions that we draw. Then how it goes. A calamity is reported. The inspection then supervises and usually first asks the institution to investigate that incident. The inspection will then look into how the institution investigates that incident, whether it is sufficiently learned from it, and whether it is sufficiently thoroughly addressed. If that is not the case, the inspection will take over. If that is the case, the inspection shall consider, on the basis of the examination carried out by the institution, whether any action should be taken, if necessary, or shall undertake a six-month review of whether the institution itself has put into practice the lessons it has drawn. So that learning element is in that inspection monitoring. That's what supervision is all about. Then there's the quality framework of nursing home care. A number of questions have been asked about this, but I should like to start with a quote from Mrs Dijksma, who then quotes me again from an interview I gave at the end of last year. That interview I gave at the threshold of 2018, the first year in which, on the basis of that Quality Framework Nursing Care, a significant amount of extra money went to the nursing homes: 435 million in the first year. Next year, it'll be about 600 million. That's step two on the way to the 2.1 billion. What I sincerely believe is that we are doing ourselves, the credibility of politics, and also society a disservice if we are unable to explain in a while what happened to them in the nursing homes. The discussion then focused on the question: how many obligations can you actually expect for the 435 million, because we always buy in at an integral rate and we just buy in places in nursing care? You just raised the rate, so what can you expect in return? That is when I said that if we didn't set it up with each other that we could explain what our people in the nursing homes noticed, we wouldn't have done very well together. I want to raise that bar for myself. I also think that we should set that bar high for ourselves here. That 2.1 billion didn't come in for nothing. That was not just a question of: well, that seems to us a nice subject to spend some more money on. No, a quality framework has been established with each other. Society, you might say, has actually made higher demands on the quality of nursing home care. There were serious concerns about this nursing home care. That was the basis for that extra money. So the way we deal with that money, the way we set up our approach for those nursing homes, must be so that there can be no question of non-committality. Indeed, we must set the bar high for ourselves. We have to speak to ourselves: if Grandma doesn't notice, then we just didn't do it right. I'm pretty sure you're gonna remind me of that statement a lot. In fact, I knew the moment I did it, you'd remind me of that a lot. Still, I did it very consciously. You always have people in your neighborhood, for example in a department, who say: ooh, beware; don't set yourself too high standards, because before you know it, you have to answer for it. That's exactly what I want. I want to answer for that, because we have a big job to do with each other. I honestly think we didn't do well enough if Grandma doesn't notice. This determines the mindset with which we organise the approach of nursing home care. I think it is wise that we should talk about this when we have that approach. Because the way we make sure that it is noticed in the nursing homes, not only by grandma but also by the people who care for her, is that in mid-March we presented an approach to the labour market, which I will come back to in a moment, that we want to present an approach to nursing care in mid-May and that we want to publish an approach to the regulatory burden. Those approaches have everything to do with each other. They are all about reality on the floor in the nursing home. They're all about reality in those locations in nursing care. A lot of beautiful things are happening in many of those locations. That's true. I see from the extra money that has gone in so far, that 435 million, also a lot back. I always ask. Every time I visit a nursing home, I always ask: what has changed here since January 1st? Have you had more colleagues? Do you have the feeling that you can pay more time and more attention to the people you care for? That is not enough, but I can already see that there are more day activities, that there are already more caregivers and nurses, that there is already a better occupation during the holiday period and that the two men are already being picked up on some groups, although that is certainly not always the case. There are also more creative forms than just hiring new nurses and new caregivers. For example, some homes work with level 1 and 2 nursing home care workers who are more the hostess in a location, giving the nurse or caregiver her hands more free to care for what she was also trained for. In short, a lot is already happening, but it is only a step towards the quality framework of nursing home care. The approach we will present in the coming period will outline the way in which we will take these other steps. Then the labour market. Actually, most of the questions were asked about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u23	Mr Hijink has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u24	Yeah, about the previous subject. The Minister makes a very comprehensive list of successes that are already achieved thanks to the first commitment of the money that is now available. We also get the opposite sounds that people are being removed from the group in places, that there are fewer colleagues available. I would like to have some insight, in any way, where exactly that money stays. I would like the Minister to make it clear how many extra people have actually joined.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u25	That's really hard to do right now. I can do that at some point in the year. At the end of the year, I can do that or actually after the end of this calendar year, because then you can get it out of the annual reports. I want those analyses myself, because I want exactly the same question answered. I actually had your question in the block that's coming up, but I can also answer it now. You asked me if I'd ever come across fewer people working in departments. I myself do not see that as a conscious effect of policy. This type of problem is sometimes caused by absenteeism or by outgoing colleagues leaving job vacancies that are difficult to fill. Of course, in many houses you will encounter this, because this labour market problem is being felt in full. Only I come across "we got 435 million extra, let's spend less money now" as a policy we are aiming for. If you do have those with names and numbers, I'd really like to hear it. Because I am very curious what can play there and what may have been the background to this decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u26	I think that's a good idea. We should not do that in this Chamber, but I'm sure we can do that in another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u27	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u28	Then the point remains that the fine list that the Minister makes every time he is somewhere, he sees everything happening, all of which is super positive, if it is actually so everywhere. If we are going to make so much extra money available, it is not enough for us to get an overview of what it has done at the end of the year. I think we should do this more often, and not just this year, but also in the years to come. We just need to check periodically what happened to that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u29	Yes. I understand your question very well. I'd like to ask: hold him until our approach to nursing care is there. It also contains how we intend to organise monitoring. Then we can discuss whether you think that's enough, because I think it's pretty close to what you're actually asking. In short, this year's 435 million has been included in the rates. Based on these rates, institutions have more possibilities, mostly modo about €5,000 extra per place in nursing home care. So that's really serious money. If you convert it very much macro and could fill all the vacancies, then an average working time factor is about 10,000 FTEs for about 2,000 locations nursing home care, so about 5 FTEs per location in nursing home care. This is far too coarse; this is only statistically true. But I just want to point out that there is seriously more room for more people, and so for more time and attention. I just want to see that happened with you. Let us say that we have left the institutions very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, Then we haven't done well enough. So I want to know, too. I want to see it, too. We just don't have some kind of real-time monitor of the payroll of all nursing homes. That would also be very bureaucratic, so perhaps we should not want to. But we can do it differently. That's what we'll be talking about. I would actually like to make available the next 600 million in the form of a quality budget, whereby each institution can be varied on the basis of their own quality plan as to what the assignment is, how you are going to deal with it, and how you are going to take that step towards the level we have set with each other, namely the quality framework for nursing care. That means that money must also be visible in numbers of people. That should then be monitored. That'll be a monitor between the care office and the institution. Yes, I'd like to have a look at that. How we're gonna do that, I'll let you know. Then we should discuss whether you can keep your finger sufficiently on the wrist. I do not think we have any other needs, but the question is whether you think what we are proposing is good enough. We are trying to do this in such a way that the administrative burden that comes from it does not mean that all kinds of people have to sit down, but that we can get it up a little more automated. Mr. Chairman. The labour market. Mrs Agema spoke most intensively about this. You have all actually asked a number of questions about the issue of the labour market. I get that, too. It is true that labour market issues for the coming period are in fact the most acute. There's more money available for nursing care. That's important. But money alone doesn't care. We will have to make sure that we find the people who have to provide that kind of care. On the basis of the bill, we are talking about the 2.1 billion and the temporary standard contained in that quality framework about 70,000 additional employees, 70,000 employees for nursing home care alone. Of the 125,000 shortage, 70,000 employees are thus allocated to the additional financial space for the quality of nursing home care. That is why we wanted to be the first to present the labour market programme at a very rapid pace. That's actually where the biggest assignment is. It's sometimes said, "Yes, it's just a campaign that doesn't make it." I heard that a bit back in Mrs Ellemeet's words. Of course, it is not just a campaign; that is one of the 80 measures in it. The point is that we make sure that many more people choose care. These are young people, through career orientation and increasing the influx into the training for care, as well as side-influx and re-enterers. It's about a lot more people choosing care. Then it is indeed important that one has a good picture of what the work involves in the care, not a pink image, but a good picture. The second is that we need to make sure that learning in healthcare is better than it is now. More people have to finish education. More space should be provided for internships and internships. That is not easy if you already have a number of vacancies to fill. Then you already have a smaller team to do the job with. Besides, it's not easy to mentor interns. There are creative solutions for this too. The third is working differently in health care. With just more people, we're not gonna make it. For example, we are talking about reducing administrative burdens. Here again we are talking about a macro number: if we succeed in getting all the people in care to do 1.2 million people there an hour less paperwork and an hour more care, it will save 20,000 jobs. If we were to ensure that people with an unintentionally small contract could work an hour more, it would save 20,000 jobs. In short, there are real opportunities for different working in care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u30	Before you continue, Mrs. Agema has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u31	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Is the Minister familiar with the research of V&VN that indicates that all employees with a small contract have been working for an average of eleven hours than their contract?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u32	I'm definitely familiar with that investigation. I'll get to that. Mrs Dijksma asked to respond. I've prepared a proper response to that. So I'll get to that, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u33	No. The minister stands here with a lot of bravure to tell you that if all employees go to work an hour more, you'll have 20,000 extra people. But on average, people have been working more than their contract for 11 hours. So it's really true gossip that we got a few weeks ago. If people have been working for about 11 hours, you're not gonna say: everyone has an extra hour and, uh, 20,000 people; I'm gonna put that in a plan and put the stamp of the VWS ministry on it? What does the Minister intend to do? To forced labour?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u34	This is a really weird interruption, to be honest. It's about whether it's feasible. The first question is: is it feasible at all in the event of a potential deficit of 125 000 and a tight labour market? I'll be right back to your questions about the CPB. An answer to that question is that you begin to see if interventions could work. We have said here in the Chamber several times, among other things on the contribution of the SP, with which I very much agreed, that there are still institutions in nursing care that give people a very small contract unintentionally. And yes, it may be that overtime work is harder, but the contract remains small. That is one of the reasons why, for example, Mrs Ellemeet mentioned the back door. It is also one of the reasons why the SP has said before: you should actually do something about that. Of course we don't have the employers on a string, but you should want a 12-hour or sixteen-hour contract, so convenient for planning around the peak moments, to be extended. You can't pay your rent on a contract like this. So it makes sense to ask the question: is there room in the contractual sphere to take a step on that? The answer, macro, is that doing so does indeed provide a solution to the potential deficit. That's one. And of course, that's always a macro number. But two: it's really nicer working too. It just helps if you have a good employer. There are also employers who deal with this very differently. In fact, fortunately, most employers deal with this differently. But unintentionally too small contracts in care still occur. The SCP report of about a month ago showed that of all public sectors, care is the sector where the most undesirable part-time work is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u35	Mrs Agema, before you continue, I would prefer to have an interruption in two. I'm giving you a third option now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u36	The Minister called my interruption weird, but I think his answer is even crazier. In the healthcare sector, incredibly many women work part-time. If he had read these 350 abuses, at least he would have seen the employees say: listen, I have a 20-hour contract, I am a working mother and I want to be with my family, but every week I have to work 11 hours extra. And then the Minister says: there can be another hour and then I put the number 20,000 in a report. And then I can't say that report is gossip! It shouldn't get any weirder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u37	The interruption is getting crazier, really. The point is that there is a possibility of finding a solution along that line. That's one. Secondly, of course, it is not about people who work part-time and who no longer work part-time. You can't offer these people an extra contract or contract extension. But what can of course be done is to offer people who unintentionally have too small a contract to work more hours. So where is the hesitation with employers now? They think: if I do so, I also have to set up my own institution as a work organisation in a different way, because if the contracts are now mainly based on the concerns surrounding the peak moments, I cannot do so anymore. That's one. Two. If this leads to too heavy a workload, isn't that a cause for higher absenteeism? This is another hesitation that some employers have. I think we really need to get through that a little bit. We see good examples such as job carving or people who wash and dress in the morning and work in the afternoon in the daily business. So there really is a number of solutions. Combination contracts are even offered: washing and dressing in the morning and working at another health care facility in the afternoon. Those combinations are also made. I am committed to keeping the sector on track: if we want to combat the deficit for the coming period, that has everything to do with good employership. And good employership is also that you offer people who would actually like to work more and have a larger contract to do so. The inclusion of the 20,000 in the Labour Market programme is not intended as: there must and there will be 20,000 additional people found along that road. It's supposed to be like, "Do you see it's possible?" At least there is a lot to gain from macro. I am also truly convinced that there is a lot to be gained through good employership, at least in keeping the back door closed, as Mrs Ellemeet calls it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u38	Over and over again, you've blamed each other a few times for getting crazier and crazier. I am now giving Mrs Agema one last chance to respond and the Minister continues with his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u39	I really think it would be a good idea for the Minister to repeat the list of 305 abuses. What, for example, does he say to the lady who says she has had two and a half weeks of vacation this year? Should that only be two weeks next year or something? What does he say to the mother who only wants to work 20 hours, but who sees it turn 35 every week? They're all just gonna have to work an extra hour. It is really wet fingering to say: we all have short contracts and everyone only has to work an hour extra. They've all been working an average of 11 hours extra. Then you're just doing air bike business. Then you're doing gossip. Then you're busy making fun action plans...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u40	Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u41	... in election time, which comes to an end...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u42	Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u43	... generate zero extra employees in 2023!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u44	I really have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u45	I'm gonna try another way. I ask the Minister if he uses, for example, the research of V&VN as a reality check on what he has plans for. 'Cause you're gonna get more human force hours available in healthcare through bigger contracts, I think. And that in itself is desirable, I agree with that. But then the question arises as to whether it really can be done in practice. What power of perseverance does the Minister have in terms of good employership? How can he then force the employers to get a real good contract?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u46	This is the question that fits in with that. One more time about that number of 20,000. If there is a deficit of 125,000 coming towards us, we must resolve it and at the same time ask ourselves whether we can actually do so in a tighter labour market. The answer to that question should also be derived from a number of arithmetic assumptions. What if you did interventions like this? Is there any rack in there? Look at the observations the SCP makes about that. The SCP says that care is one of the sectors in which the most undesirable part-time work is carried out. For example, there is also a lot of part-time work in education, but often not at all undesirable but simply because people no longer want to work. There the intervention is less effective. Intervention in care can indeed be effective. I agree with everyone who says that macro might be right, but it doesn't have to be right at all at an institution, for example because people have had the offer to work more, but they haven't. It may also be that the employer does not submit the offer because he has to organise his institution as a work organisation in a different way. Then why did we present it in this way in the programme? That is not because this means that 20,000 additional people must be recruited, but rather so that we do not let ourselves down by saying that this would be unfeasible. Because through good employership you can certainly take a big step. Next, the question is how to achieve that. We can better discuss this through the Labour Market programme and go into the depths of how we are going to organise it. We're going to make a strategic personnel planning per region. It simply states how many people are needed in the next few years in the care given the demographic development and given the people who are now in training, but are almost getting rid of it, so given all the facts and figures in the region. What is necessary to achieve that, translated into the level of the individual institution? Where are the buttons to turn on? Is that part of schooling people who already work there? Is that part of inviting re-enterers? Is that when inviting people who already work there and can have a little contract expansion? And if you're still offering contract expansion, I wouldn't stick to an hour. I'd do it a little more intensively. So to do that, you need a strategic plan at the level of the region and its translation at the level of the individual institution. If you ask me if you can force an institution to do so, my answer is no. That's not how our country works. If you ask me if you can excite, move or invite institutions to do so, my answer is yes. We do this through strategic staff planning. We're making a lot of money available for that. 320 million will be distributed in this way. There is 348 million for the overall approach to the labour market. Let me give you an idea: I said in the budget that we wanted to spend a larger part of the 320 million in the first tranche, because there were just good plans from the regions. We didn't want to stop them. The initially reserved 30 have become 80. We have used that 80 in such a way that at the moment we are talking about 56,000 training courses. This does not mean that you will have new staff tomorrow, because part of it is also about educating people into internship counsellors. That leads a little more indirectly to new staff. But with the plans that we are putting in place, with the direction that those who have them and with the resources that we have at our disposal, it is simply possible to take a real step, also in the area of good employership.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u47	Let me start by saying that I am pleased that the sector plans of the previous cabinet are now being re-launched. They're about to be called "Region Plan." In any case, half of the current coalition parties were strongly opposed by the minister's and D66's party in the previous period. The criticism has always been that the effectiveness of this approach has not been proven. I am glad that this subject has now been changed. It can't be management by speech. The Minister agrees, but he doesn't have a perseverance. So then he must either be very good at seducing or be sure that this approach is going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u48	In view of the introduction to this question, I would nevertheless like to invite Mrs Dijksma to read the programme again and to do'search for differences'. Because there really is a pretty big difference in the way we do this. One of the important differences is that we don't put the money over the fence for granted. We're asking the region to make a plan, as I just said. This plan sets out the strategic staff planning, the measures and the transfer of those measures to the institution level, including educational institution level. Then let's check that plan by region. We have a club that checks that out before the next tranche is made available. And if it is likely that these plans will lead to the result you are aiming at, namely reducing the deficit, then the money will be made available. That's how the controls work. So no strings attached is really off. For each new tranche we spend, the plans will be reviewed and, if necessary, adjusted before making the money available. That does not mean that we are saying from the tower here in The Hague: and now the employer there in Schin op Geul has to take this action; it is precisely the region that is invited to come up with a good plan for such a labour market that is really regional, and then to check whether it is good enough to make the next tranche of money available. So no strings attached is really off. Yeah, I think it's just good to try each other's kidneys in an AO on the labour market to see if it's good enough or if you might want to go further. I'm very curious how you look at that. But no commitment is not in these plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u49	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u50	I was just going to ask: perhaps I can continue to walk through the questions that have been asked about the labour market. Perhaps I should just start, following on from the previous question, with Mrs Dijksma's question on the V&V survey. I would also like to say to reassure you that the V&VN has been fully involved in the creation of the Labour Market programme. That's one. Two is Mrs Dijksma's point about salary development. We've had that debate before. In fact, it is always the case that in health care we make a normal salary development possible, actually following wages from the market. It is the assignment to a cabinet and then to the Chamber, because you have the budget right to make sufficient budget available for the coming period. That's what we do. It is then up to the social partners to determine which collective agreement is most appropriate. That is really an agreement that social partners will have to make themselves. That's not where the cabinet sits at the table. What we have to do is make it possible. A normal wage development is necessary, I believe, and is also possible. I believe that you had a technical session not so long ago in connection with our earlier debate on the budget. You then look at the huge estimate for the coming period, including this cabinet period, of plus 18 billion. Depending on wage and price adjustments, it may still be a little fluctuating in the coming period, but the 18 billion in the plus in the estimate is more than half available for wage developments in the care sector. Not just in nursing care, but of course everywhere. In short, there is room for wage development. Only how this wage development takes shape is really up to social partners in collective agreements. This is just about the reaction to V&VN. This is also a response to a number of other questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u51	Mrs Dijksma has a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u52	I understand better than anyone that the Minister is not at the negotiating table. He says there's money. But it might be a little better if he said: and I also think it should be used. Because with this he gives a political signal to the employers that this wage area should actually be used. That also helps the nurses. So I'm still gonna ask him if he wants to go to the end of his term of office. It may be a little scary, but you've got a lot of nerve, you've just shown up. Just tell me that's what needs to be done. That you don't determine the exact percentage, I understand, but that's not the point. Your signal here, also in the direction of that table, may be very decisive. So I say, Minister, use your space in there and give that signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u53	I do so with restraint, but with precise wording. First of all, there's room. Anyone who has responded to "yes, you can all make plans, but it's just about salaries" should also better read that survey from V&VN. It is not just about salaries. Of course, it is also about salaries, only what this salary development should look like, is really not up to a minister. That is up to the social partners. I invite them to take advantage of the space that exists, but I do say that there is room for normal wage developments. By the way, I have to concentrate on all those other plans that contribute to an improved labour market in care that is in balance. I do not know if Mrs Dijksma finds that inviting enough, but I found myself quite inviting just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u54	No. I think you should say that space should be used. That's what I think. I believe that you are sending out a signal, even towards employers, that they must use wage developments on a market-oriented basis. You are therefore moving in the right direction in the negotiations. You do not decide whether it is 4% or 5%; I understand that. But you are giving a political hint, saying: to keep this sector attractive, there is also a lot of other things that need to be done about a better salary; there is room and use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u55	Everyone chooses their own words, but I believe that what I have just said is understood as clearly as what you have just said. It is not set up for nothing, so indeed: make use of the space there is. I'm not gonna get involved any more, because otherwise I'm actually gonna be some kind of negotiating partner, or rather, a jammer at that table. That's the last thing I want. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the question about the CPB transfer. We need to say a few things about that. When the new temporary staff standard entered the quality framework, it was passed on by the NZa and then by the CPB. Not so much the cost of the standard has been calculated, but it is planned economically. It has been found that it would mean about 40,000 fte in four years; 10,000 fte a year. At the time, the CPB said it was a big job, but it's doable. 10,000 FTE is again the equivalent of 70,000 employees, because of the average working time factor. That was the situation in the middle of last year, when the review took place and the estimate was linked to the new quality framework. That's one. Two. The CEP has recently been published. In this context, the CPB concluded that the recruitment of qualified personnel for education, nursing care and defence will be a considerable challenge in the short term, as some of them will have to be fished out of a similar pond. I wholeheartedly agree with the CPB. This is also the reason why it is not a small task and why we have made a substantial programme for the labour market. The latest estimates from the CPB came last week. The CPB still assumes that the staff statement will be taken into care. That means that it would not have any added value for me to ask again, because the CPB has said a number of times that this estimate is feasible, although it does not happen automatically and it will be a major task. Everyone recognizes that, I think, but it must be feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u56	The Minister is taking the CPB very seriously. Is he also willing to pass on the plan Working in health care to the CPB?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u57	I just explained that last year and recently the CPB said that it is feasible, although it is not self-evident because it is a very big task.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u58	Mr President, I asked whether the Minister was prepared to pass the plan on to the Central Planning Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u59	The calculation of plans is done with election programs. Then you take measures, you indicate austerity measures and ask yourself if those cuts would be feasible. For example, for the main lines agreements, nearly 2 billion has been committed during the formation. That is what the CPB says: we have to see that again, because we do not know whether it is feasible. That's another way. This is a feasibility study of measures you take to achieve reversals. That's not what we're doing here. What we are doing here is making a plan to prevent that deficit. The question has been asked whether it is feasible to recruit 10,000 FTE a year in addition to nursing care. It's been answered by the CPB last year and again this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u60	Mrs. Agema, you are now going to make a habit of doing your interruptions in threes. You have asked your question twice and received quite a lot of answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u61	I got the wrong answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u62	Yes, it may be, but that's not how it works in a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u63	The Minister's talking nonsense. In fact, it is wrong for the Minister to say that only election programmes can be passed on. You can have any plan from any ministry that comes to the Chamber today or tomorrow passed on. Then as President, I expect you to deal with the proper provision of information to the Chamber. I would like to ask again whether the Minister is prepared to pass this plan on to the CPB and then I expect a yes or a no from the Minister. The Central Planning Office can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u64	The Minister is talking about his own answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u65	I think I have made it quite clear that I do not see the added value of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u66	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u67	The CPB said last year that it is feasible, it is feasible, but complicated. This year too, two weeks ago, the CPB repeated that it is feasible, but complicated. So we know that and we also know what we have to do, namely to do everything we can to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u68	I should like to give the floor to Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u69	A point of order. I think we're either doing two or three interruptions, but we're doing them for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u70	Agreed. So far, I haven't told anyone that the interrupting microphone should be shorter, so I'm very fair in that. If Mrs Dijksma had wanted to ask another question, she could have asked mine. I'm looking at the clock. We are going to start the next debate at 8.45 p.m. I think the Minister is a long way from answering his question. Mrs Agema has now received sufficient answers. No, Mrs. Agema, it's done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u71	No, there's something I'd like to say to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u72	No doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u73	I'm okay with doing two-way interruptions. I'm not fighting that. I just agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u74	I had hoped that your reasonableness...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u75	But if the Minister then says in his reply that only election programmes are being calculated and not something like this plan, that is really nonsense. In that case, you can give a Member of Parliament the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u76	Mrs Agema, your point is clear. The Minister has answered your question in three ways. I should now like to give the floor to Mrs Hermans for her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u77	So the Minister's answer is: no, he is not prepared to pass this plan on to the Central Planning Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u78	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister quotes the CPB. It's doable, but it's a hell of a job. This is the subject of an ambitious labour market programme which will be the subject of a separate debate. Can he say anything about how the monitoring of the effects of that programme and the results that we are going to achieve with that programme is going to look like? I am very curious to be able to follow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u79	We want to set up a programme monitor, preferably a single audit, so that we do not have to fill in all kinds of separate lists again, while also keeping an eye on the increase in FTEs in the sector. Just keep an eye on it, at least every year, if possible half-yearly and maybe even a little more often. What we want is an insight into the development of FTEs in nursing care. Then you can see to what extent we can actually get the agreements we make in nursing care to land in the locations, in such a way that we can actually keep our finger on the agreements between health offices and institutions and give an answer to the question whether grandma will notice anything about them. That is actually the motion you tabled during the budget debate. The one about nursing care. As far as the labour market is concerned, although we may need to discuss this more precisely when dealing with the Labour Market programme, we have a number of indicators. They are about employee satisfaction, including the development of the number of vacancies, and also about customer satisfaction in nursing care. We keep a number of indicators to what extent we can actually achieve the programme's objective of reducing the deficit to as close as possible to zero. That is the objective of the programme. Whether it's gonna work out, I don't know, because that would be very special. In any case, I want us to be able to say to each other in 2021, the year of the predicted deficit, that we have done everything we can to ensure that it is as close to zero as possible. In order to say that, you need to be able to monitor periodically. The programme contains a chapter on "monitoring and evaluation" and contains the indicators that we can periodically ask out to keep an eye on the pulse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u80	Clear. I have one specific question on the labour market. Are you also looking at which measures work better or perhaps less well, so that you can steer a little more focused when redistributing money?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u81	That's actually a second element. You can see that in one region one is very much developed and the other. One region can be great in career orientation and do so as concretely as possible, so that the number of registrations to the institutions can be increased enormously. And the other region can be very good at influxing side-intromers. We must then set up the steering mechanism in such a way that we check the plans before we put away the next tranche of money and at the same time look closely at what has worked in which region and where regions can learn from each other. So we organize both these elements. In addition, there is this programme monitor which shows very precisely to what extent we have been able to achieve that result so far. Mr President, I think I have had the most important questions, but I will check my list. Mrs Ellemeet was very right when she talked about the back door. In health care, 180,000 people change jobs a year and 80,000 of them leave care. 80,000 people leave care! I say this out of my head and therefore look at the civil servant's box with a slanted eye, because that is a great deal. That is a great deal, and that is why I would like to emphasise that good employership. Of course that's not the only thing, but I believe it helps to hold people. If we don't do anything about that back door, then it does indeed keep mopping with the tap open. You can also put it positively. In fact, if we manage to reduce the number of people who actually leave care, then you've already made your first profit. So I very much believe that this should be given an important emphasis. For example, it concerns guidance and the provision of training opportunities. These types of measures are therefore included in the programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u82	It is indeed one of the greatest challenges: keeping people in care and not just attracting people. And yet, all the Minister's proposals, including those for training, seem to be mainly aimed at making people with training fit for other positions. But I think we should revitalize all those people who are now working in care, because they have had quite a spicy time. So it's also about investing in your current people, without it leading directly or indirectly to new staff. I'm missing that part in the Minister's plans. Could he perhaps explain that further?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u83	Perhaps we should also explore this more extensively in the AO that will follow up on the programme. There are a number of measures on sustainable employability and permanent learning. This concerns not only the education of people from outside to inside, but also permanent learning through the provision of training opportunities and by releasing people to return to training. Everything we do in nursing care about dignity and pride is very much focused on this and we are working on this on location. So that is actually very explicit a program that fits in with what you mean: revitalizing it. You could also say: back to why you actually chose to care. I also believe that everything we do about regulation pressure has a very clear revitalizing effect. I will come back to those scraping sessions in a moment. It is not just the labour market programme that contains measures that should lead to this, because we are doing it through all the other things that we do for care. They are really about this and they really are about this. Good employership also means that you make sure your people go to work nicely, go to work safely and go back to work enthusiastically. That revitalizing is definitely in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u84	I can see that the Minister is really working very hard on these scrapings in the administrative burden. That is a very important pain point for people who work in care. Congratulations on that. But it's a lot more than that. I think that we need to talk about this at another time, but the action programme does say: I want to look at the reasons for this drop-out. I've been talking about that. The most important reasons we know. It's an urgent problem. We need to get to work on it now. I would therefore ask the Minister not only to deal with these scrapings but also more widely with the other pain points that people now experience in working in care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u85	Let me just say, with those glasses on, I'm gonna go read our own program. Where it is not sufficiently concrete, I will ensure that I have it more concretely in my pocket when we have that debate. Then you can judge whether you think it is enough. If you have any good ideas, we're always happy about that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u86	I would like to ask the Minister how far he is, also with a view to a short second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u87	Well, you won't believe it, but I'm actually quite an end. I think there's another question or four. I'll be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u88	Okay. I understand that on the side of the Chamber there is still a need for a second term. In any case, Mrs Agema needs that, I see. If you'd like to finish, that would be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u89	I'm going through it fast, yeah. Are tasks performed by nurses level 5 while they can also be done by other trained persons, including in the task redeployment? Oh, yeah. We've deliberately said, "Make sure you put people on the job they've been trained for." That's part of the job carving, the task rearrangement that's in it. Then the CDA asked when we can actually see those rules as expired. That changes very strongly per rule. Yesterday, Mr Bruins was offered 62 rules, I believe, which, according to people from the care themselves, could just be dropped without bothering you. In fact, we have ease of that, they say; then we have more time for care. For the sake of fairness, however, it is often not enough to say 'it doesn't have to be anymore'. We've seen that with the five-minute registration. So you really have to put a path on it to make sure that it is actually deleted and that they actually quit. That's part of the job. You will also see this in our programme that we are sending to the Chamber in mid-May. In it you will recognize the rules that are now being presented, but you will also see what needs to be done to get rid of that rule. Some can be very fast and some really take a while because you have to weed for that. Then you asked whether it would not make sense to make that a little more permanent. I think that's true. You can't let it be a one-time action, because before you know it, puppets will be new things. I would really like to invite every location, every institution to do those scrapings myself. Many rules are also in the minds of people themselves and are institutional rules even more than rules that only come from outside. Then you asked a question about the consequences for the directors; a phrase that is also in the coalition agreement. You can deal with that in different ways. When discussing the nursing home care programme, we should see if you think the cabinet is doing this in a good way. One way is along the line of purchase. If a driver doesn't deliver what's agreed, I'll go out and send you on a non-binding sequel. This means that measures must be taken. Those may be improvement measures along the purchasing line. Eventually, it could also have been recovered, for example. In the end, they can also be other purchasing choices. For example, we're going to clip and we're going to buy the extra places we need from someone else, to name but a few. So these are purchasing consequences. They do indeed affect the director of the care facility. When it comes to quality that is below measure, a second possibility, we have inspection supervision. That's risk-oriented. A driver of an institution where the quality is below the mark will need to be on the coffee faster at the inspection. As time progresses, these conversations of course also become less and less pleasant. The first step is internal supervision, the supervisory board, but the inspection also has a whole arsenal of intervention options at its disposal. The most far-reaching possibility is that the inspection gives an indication that a driver must be appointed next to the driver. That's a pretty clear signal in the direction of a driver. If you were going to appoint a minister next to me, I think I would know what you mean by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u90	My question was a little bit about the next point. Are those supervisory boards gonna pick that up automatically, or do I have to wait until that plan for the nursing homes gets there? Is there really any talk with these supervisory boards? In terms of governance, I find it a little strange that the Minister should do all that with the inspection. I believe that there is also a clear role for these supervisory councils. They have to conform that the quality in the house is in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u91	In the escalation ladder, to use a very ugly word that the inspection uses, there is at some point the conversation with the supervisory board. In the vast majority of cases, the supervisory board itself understands what its own work is and has long been engaged in that conversation, but if this conversation is not sufficiently assertive, the inspection will appeal to the supervisory board for its internal supervisory role. If the Supervisory Board subsequently fails to fulfil that role, the enforcement tools will enter into force on that escalation ladder and there will be measures to be taken with the ultimate consequence that you give an indication of the governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u92	Thank you. That's what we ended up with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u93	From the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u94	From the first term. We will proceed quickly with the second term on the side of the Chamber. I call Mrs Agema. You have one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u95	Well, Mr. Chairman, I'll just file my motions, won't I? [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to have the €2 billion to recover the redundant care workers in the nursing homes not only available as a whole in 2022 but as per Spring 2018 note, because the state of major underemployment that has arisen in our nursing homes should be lifted now,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to identify and apologize to all 77 000 health care workers who were made redundant under Rutte II,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to apologize to all those nursing home residents and their caregivers who now live and work there and who are understaffed for years to come,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-309]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-310]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-311]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the moment there are about 130,000 vacancies in the care department at the UWV. There is a plan for 2022 and 2023, but in the meantime, the Minister has no solution at all to the abuses we have discussed today. That is incredibly worrying, because we read between the 305 abuses at Thebe in any case also about a number of cases where people have died because of these abuses. That's a situation that should affect all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u97	Thank you. Mrs Sazias also needs a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u98	Mr. Chairman. We're talking about abuses in nursing care tonight. We have to keep doing that, because we have to do something about it, but at the same time I want to have said from this place that I have a great deal of admiration and respect for all those caregivers who give loving care every day with tremendous patience. There's still a lot of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u99	Thank you. I'm gonna take one last look at the members. Is there anyone else who needs a second term? That is not the case. The Minister now has the motions before him and is right to react. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u100	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 309 calls for the 2 billion to be added to the Spring Note. I cannot do that, because that goes beyond the financial limits agreed in the coalition agreement. Apart from that, we have just had a whole debate on the feasibility of the steps we are taking. There's not just two billion dollars worth of people to be found. That's not gonna happen this way, so I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 310 calls on the government to track down all those who have been fired in recent years, to apologize and to ask for them back. It's a little crazy to do that from here. It's weird under state law, because I'm just taking responsibility for all the decisions that have been taken in the past period. But apart from that, it is, of course, mainly up to the regions to ensure that they recruit re-enterers and side-intromers in their regional action plans. I do hope that a large proportion of the people who have always worked with love in care have been unexpectedly dismissed and now have the opportunity, says: I am going to do so again. That is what the regions are up to, so I also recommend this motion. The motion in part No. 311 is another request to apologize to nursing home residents. In my opinion, it is the best thing for people to have a cabinet and a chamber to work with rolled-up sleeves instead of supporting this type of motion, so I would advise against this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u101	Every week we see beautiful pictures of the minister coming by, when he is back on work visit. He dissuades this motion, but is he willing to say every time he goes into the country to those nursing home residents: sorry people, but the hands on the bed that you now lack come only in 2023?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u102	I have just heard Mrs Agema say a number of things about this. I thought, "I'm not answering," but let me do it. The first tranche, the first 80 million of the 320 million euros involved in the labour market approach, has already been deployed. 58.000 training courses are provided for this purpose. Those are just serious, concrete steps. Look at the growth on the way to the 2.1 billion. $435 million has already been spent. Those are just concrete steps. I really think that, instead of playing a political game, our people in nursing care are the most interested in concrete action. That's why I came to The Hague. I think that's what I do, and I'll let you talk to me about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u103	I'm being blamed for a political game. Seventy-seven thousand people were fired in front of us. The minister wasn't there yet, but we've all been there. There are 130,000 vacancies now. Yeah, there's gonna be money, but not now. For that 485 million, we may have the wage bill of 10,000 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u104	Mrs. Agema, what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u105	So the situation, the major understaffing this year and the coming years, will continue to exist. I think that is worthy of an excuse, because there are people in their stools, because there are people in their wheelchairs and are forgotten, because people are falling and are dying. That is what this debate has been about today because of the undercrowding that exists today, and for which the Minister has some money in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u106	Thank you. The Minister can still respond to this. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u107	It is one such gray album and so on the reality that it is difficult to find the energy for it again and again to go into it. I came here to do my job. My job is a big job when it comes to care for the elderly. That means that you can appeal to me on all the actions the cabinet is taking to do the big job we're facing. That is what I like to do with you over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u108	That opportunity is going to be extended to everyone here, because if I have understood correctly, this will soon be another comprehensive AO. Then you can discuss this with each other in detail again. We have come to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber and I would like to suspend the sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u109	I want to make a personal statement. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u110	Mrs Agema, I must say that I think you have had quite a lot of air time in this debate. I've also given you plenty of room to take that transmission time. I'm looking at the clock. It is 8.30 p.m. and we will continue with the next debate at 9.15 p.m. A personal fact, that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u111	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I want to make a personal statement anyway. The Minister accuses me of speaking the truth. The 77.000 I mentioned is a fact. The 130,000 vacancies at the UWV are a fact. The Minister's plan to have 125,000 new employees in 2022/2023 is also a fact. Then I find it very unfair to be accused of speaking the truth and of not giving me the floor as President. So this is a personal fact I'm making especially in your direction, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u112	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-12.u113	I'll reopen the meeting later at 8:45 p.m. We'll be voting on the motions next Tuesday.
