ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Medical Care. Mrs Dijksma asks a question about the report that in some places there is no general practitioner. I call Mrs Dijksma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last night there was a broadcast of Radar showing that there is no GP available for people who have recently moved to Leeuwarden. I can imagine that for all the people in our country it is very important that they can be sure that they have a general practitioner nearby. If there isn't, you have a big problem. You might think this message is some kind of alarm, but the nasty thing is that everywhere in the country reports of a lack of doctors. I have Googled for a moment, and I know from my own experience that this has been the case in recent months alone, since my group has raised this issue. And there's no connection, I can assure you. In Zeeland they say: all doctors in the Netherlands, please come to us. In Tilburg, hundreds of patients are currently waiting for a GP. But it really isn't just about shrinking areas. Two weeks ago I was in Rotterdam Charlois, a difficult district where it is more difficult to find general practitioners because the tasks of the general practitioners there are heavy and often not medical. I have seen that the Minister, in response to the broadcast, is screening with an investigation, which he wants to launch together with the National General Medical Association. But the question is whether that will not be mustard after the meal. Why? First of all, the Minister is currently agreeing with the health insurers on the main agreements in the care sector. If anything has to change, now is the time. I wonder if the investigation will not be too late for that. My second question to the Minister is what he says to the people who currently sometimes have to travel 150 kilometres to their old family doctor because there is no new one available in their new city. Then he won't say, "Call your health care provider"? My last question is more for the future. Shouldn't there be much more cooperation with social networks, debt relief and all kinds of other forms to alleviate the work of general practitioners in sometimes difficult circumstances?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Dijksma raises a problem that is indeed not unique to Friesland, but also plays in other places in the Netherlands, namely that it is sometimes difficult to find a general practitioner. Let us first note that there are sufficient training places for new general practitioners. We also see that the mood to become a general practitioner is waning. In recent years you do not see in all years, but in a number of years that not all training places are occupied. When I took that kind of data, in addition to newspaper reports and to, for example, the situation we had in Blokzijl and in other places...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u5	In Balk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u6	You call it Bar. In these places, the problem of general care plays a role. That was a reason for me and, frankly, also for the LHV, the National Family Doctors Association, to sit down together and say: shall we find out what the factors are for general practitioners or general practitioners in particular not to go to some places in the Netherlands? Macro we have enough general practitioners throughout the Netherlands on average, but we do not live in averages. In some places it is thin or too thin. Then it is good to look at motivation, mobility requirements and factors that hinder people from becoming a general practitioner in a particular area. We need to look not only at what the problem is, but also at what solution we can link to it. I also saw the broadcast of Radar yesterday. The research on behalf of VWS that comes out of it, you must understand as an investigation that I would like to set up together with the National General Medical Association. Again, not only to label the problem, but also to come up with solutions. That's one. So I don't think it's too late. It is an issue which Mrs Dijksma and I will have full attention at least from 26 October last year. In that light, she must also understand the conversation that the LHV and I had about it. To the people who have to drive a long way, the new inhabitants of Leeuwarden, I would like to say that we should not just wait for that investigation. The regional parties in Friesland, including the insurer, are now sitting around the table to see what actions they should take. They're making an action plan. That's not gonna take very long. I was going to invite VWS or myself to see if that action plan has enough body. So I don't want to bend over, I want to bend over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u7	The latter is always a good attitude anyway. I certainly commend the Minister for that. My question remains, however, because he did not say when this study was to be carried out. It is a good thing that he and the family doctor's association are ready to do so and whether the results can still be decisive for his commitment to the consultation he has with health insurers on the broad agreement for the coming years. If there's a delivery to be made, this is the time. So my question remains whether this investigation is ready in time to play an important role in the arrangements that the Minister himself is going to make with the health insurers. A second point is, after all, the strengthening of the circle of care around the general practitioner. We see not only in shrinking areas, but also in areas where there is a great deal of backwardness and poverty, that it is necessary, for example, to involve welfare services and others more closely in the work of the general practitioner. We know that many doctors in the "modern family" department are. They don't all want to work full-time anymore. Sometimes they form a partnership, but they need more support to make the work possible not only in part time, but also in order to sustain it in the long term. Because that's what general practitioners have to do with it, of course. My final point: what do we say to the people who are currently deprived of a general practitioner in Leeuwarden, Zeeland or Tilburg? Do we say, "Do you call your health care provider?" Or do we say: there will be an action plan? We know that the route to the health insurance provider is not easy, especially for some groups, often older patients. Can the Minister not agree with Health Insurance companies in the Netherlands today that there will be just one national telephone number, for anyone who does not have a GP at the moment? That can then be called and people can be referred from there to the right party in their region. I think that piece of ease of use is in place. I know the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u9	...so I'm sure he can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u11	I actually thought you were interrupting Mrs Dijksma while she was complimenting me. All room for compliments!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u12	She'll have the opportunity to repeat it. No, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u13	Yeah, I can see it in you. The investigation we are conducting with the National Family Doctors Association is not complete at the time when we have completed the main agreements. But even without the main agreements being completed, there is, of course, the duty of care of insurers. It already exists and it continues to exist. In the discussions we have in the coming period, we can discuss this issue in the preparation of these basic agreements. I'll give you my word. But that investigation is not complete, because the input of the LHV, with which we do this together, is yet to come. Then there is the second point: the concern surrounding the general practitioners. Mrs Dijksma spoke about this. I think that's a theme in that investigation. I would like to know what obstacles there are for general practitioners to settle in some places or why they do not want to work full-time. I'd like to hear the reasoning for that. Mrs Dijksma mentioned a few, such as the role of the partner who wants to have a job near where the GP, his partner, lives. I want to include all these issues in that investigation. Thirdly, finally, I do not feel for that national number. There are good agreements with insurers that there is one largest insurer per region. He acts there on behalf of his colleagues. That's a very good way of doing things. Anyone insured can easily reach their insurer. So I'm not setting up another national phone number.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs Dijksma. Then I go to Mrs Aukje de Vries on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's good to see that attention is being paid to this point again. The VVD already asked a number of questions about this in December. As a result, the Minister has entered into a discussion with the National Family Doctors Association. That's good as far as we're concerned. But people have a problem now. I think it is important to point out that health insurers have a duty of care at least. As far as I'm concerned, it can't be that people have to drive 100 miles in front of a general practitioner. So the specific question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to talk to the health insurance companies to speed up the resolution of this problem, because there will be a plan of action in Friesland, but as far as we are concerned, there must be sufficient general practitioners in every region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u16	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr President, I would like to say to the family who moved to Leeuwarden that there is an obligation on insurers to provide care. So at the moment when the health insurance provider raises his hands and says "there is no" I call the NZa and say: you are going to check, you are now going to work on the fact that there is a gap in the duty of care and that this is not being fulfilled. We are talking here specifically about the situation in Friesland. We will ensure that the action plan is implemented. I've indicated before that I want to keep my finger on the wrist there. If that's helpful, I'll go there sometime. If similar measures are needed for other regions, I will first look at the region to see if they want to make that solution. Finally. If there is an acute need for care, then this new family living in Leeuwarden can of course always go to any doctor's office for emergency care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister states that the research that is now being carried out with the National Family Doctors Association on the shortage of general practitioners, not only in shrinking areas but also in other places, is not ready in time to be included in the main agreements. Now we already know from a lot of things that they cause problems in general practitioners: bureaucracy, complex care questions, short time to speak and help people. These signals often lead together to problems with these general practitioners. Is the Minister prepared to take these points and look for solutions in the main agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u20	That's the case. We are indeed familiar with themes such as regulatory pressure and bureaucracy. This also applies to the role that a practical supporter can play and to the working methods with a practical manager, but apart from the research, because that is not yet finished, these themes are on my list and I would like to discuss them in the context of the broad agreement with the general practitioners. Now I pretend I'm sure there will be, but there really still has to be some water through the sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mrs. Kooiman, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. Two questions to this minister. The Minister also knows that the previous cabinet has also made considerable savings on nursing homes, home care, community care and ggz. These are all places where there is not enough care available right now and this is all on the board of the general practitioners. Family doctors in shrinking areas often also have pharmacies. What is this Minister going to do in concrete terms to relieve this workload in order to ensure that there is sufficient care available? And two, Mr. President, the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u23	No, that is not possible, Mrs Kooiman, because you have run out of speaking time. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr President, this minister is constantly pointing only at the NZa and the health insurance provider. Then I want to know about him too...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u25	No, Mrs. Kooiman, you have the same rights as the rest of us. You've already asked a question. I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr. Chairman. I have just said in the speech that in this case funding is not the bottleneck. We have so many capacity places available for training new general practitioners. Money is not the problem, but the fact that too few people are interested in the profession of general practitioner. That's the problem in recent years. There's got to be more people pouring in. That would help. That could be a piece of the solution for the coming years. Of course, less paperwork is also a piece of the solution, as I have just said towards Mrs Ellemeet. Every hour that a GP doesn't have to do paperwork or ICT work, but that can be used for patient care, is precious to us all. That point of line printing and paperwork is why we do scrapings. That's what we do in practice. That's what we do with the professionals. That also helps a little bit. In an earlier AO we also talked about taking management tasks away from a general practitioner by a practical manager, when the general practitioners work in a group. That could also help a bit. In the meantime, the practical supporter, an official who is there, for example, for diabetes care, ggz or care for the elderly, has become almost everywhere in the Netherlands, almost with every general practitioner, usance. These are all supporting constructions that can help the GP to focus on practical care. Those are all little bits that help. I want that research of the LHV and VWS together to give us more tools to see where we can play the capacity of the GP. But it is very nice to say that money is not the object in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u27	Last night in Radar, I asked for attention to be paid to the distribution of general practitioners. Macro may be sufficiently trained, but they are not sufficiently spread. That gives me extra concern for the future. The figures of the Capacity Body show that 33% are on average over 55 years of age. So you can provide the runoff already.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u28	And now the question, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u29	It can vary enormously from one province to another. Can the Minister respond proactively to that? What's he gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u30	I took a good look at Radar. I totally agreed with the broadcast. So thank you for that, I say in the direction of Mrs Van den Berg. You don't have a lot of macro figures, except for the certainty that we make enough places available and make the budget available. We see these variations in the country. You can't say Leeuwarden is a shrinking area, because it's an urban area. However, there is a problem of this kind. I hope that, on the basis of the research that LHV and VWS are doing together, we will be able to get measures that we can use region-dependently, i.e. one in a disadvantaged area, the other in a night-evening weekend and another in a different variation. I very much agree with Mrs van den Berg that this does not require a 'one size fits all' approach, but that it requires a regional approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u31	We're really getting more and more worried. We hear reports in Radar that people can't find a GP. The Minister says that there is not enough enthusiasm for the profession of general practitioner. There are 130,000 vacancies in the care that are not being filled. Surgery rooms are closed due to a lack of qualified forces. The alarm bells must be ringing really bad by now. I also think we are waiting for an action plan. How do we get more people into care? You can't do that with a Band-Aid here and a Band-Aid there. That really needs a lot of attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u32	This is the most beautiful question you can get: tomorrow morning at a quarter past six you will have the action plan working in the care of the bus, with a whole package of measures to get more enthusiasm from people to work in the care, to recruit more internship counselors for care and to ensure that people working part-time may work a few hours more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u33	You can explain this tomorrow if you send the action plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u34	I'll be in Korea tomorrow, Madam President. So I thought, while I'm here... but I can already hear it. We'll continue in the morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-3.u35	Yes. Thank you.
