ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on tenants who will see their energy bills rise in the coming years. I would like to agree with you that you are limited to two interruptions, which go short and concisely in two. I give the floor to Mr Wassenberg, with three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The costs and benefits of the energy transition are not fairly distributed. Not between businesses and citizens, but neither between citizens. The energy bill is going to rise rapidly in the coming years and this is particularly affecting the poorest households. CE Delft has calculated that the 10% poorest households have now lost 5% of their disposable income to energy, which will be over 17% by 2050. An increasing energy price is annoying both for tenants and property owners. But those owners can do something else, install solar panels or isolate their homes. That costs money, but those investments are being recouped. There are also loans and subsidies available for this, and lower gas and electricity consumption can allow the energy bill to remain the same or maybe even decrease, even if energy prices are rising. But for tenants, there's a whole different story. You will only live as a tenant in a poorly insulated house, where the heat in winter leaks out through the cracks, through the windows and through the roof and where you see the energy bill run because prices are rising, without you being able to do anything about it. Mr. Chairman. Something must be done about this, in the interests of the tenant and in the interests of the climate. The tenant can, of course, have the energy performance of the house determined, he can map out what measures or renovations are needed, but then it stops. With a reluctant landlord, the tenant has his back against the wall. And we want to give the tenants, who run through poorly isolated homes at high cost, the right to have their homes improved. If that doesn't work, we'd like those tenants to pay less rent. Mr. Chairman. The Minister examines the possible introduction of the right of initiative tenants. That gives tenants the opportunity to make improvement proposals for their rental house. If these proposals are reasonable, they must be taken over by the landlord. The explicit inclusion of the energy performance of homes would put real pressure on the landlords to seriously engage with that energy transition. That is why I ask the Minister: can these energy performances be explicitly anchored in the right of initiative for tenants? If not, the energy performance of the property should become an important assessment criterion for the rental commission, which, through a point system, determines what a reasonable price is for a property. In a poorly isolated home, this would automatically lead to a substantially lower rent. Poor insulating glass? No roof insulation? Penalty points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr Wassenberg talks about tenants seeing their energy bill rise without being able to do anything about it themselves. They're handed over to a landlord, a corporation. During the course of the work he said something similar. "They stand with their backs against the wall, because landlords and housing corporations don't always do enough." Of course, there is a lot we can do here. As Mr Wassenberg said, the cost of energy to the tenants is going up hugely. Last week, as a PVV, we tabled a motion calling on the government not to pass on the cost of energy-saving measures to the tenants; otherwise, of course, they will not make any progress. Then why does the Party vote against it for the Animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u4	Because it is inevitable that the energy príjs will eventually rise. The energy rates may rise but if you have an isolated house, the final price you pay may remain equal or even decrease. That's what you have to bet on as far as we're concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u5	So that's exactly a farce, that's exactly not true. Because you can do what you want to do about energy saving, but if prices go up at the same time, that doesn't make much sense. Corporates can implement energy-saving measures, but if they are passed on to the tenants, they won't get anywhere with them either. So you can save energy whatever you want and implement measures, but on balance, the charges of the tenants will continue to increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u6	No, Mr. Chairman, that's bullshit. The moment those rates rise and the savings increase even more, you're going to pay less on balance. I see it in my own situation. Indeed, we have had our house isolated, and you can immediately see that in the energy prices you pay, because your natural gas consumption immediately drops by a quarter to a third. Then you will indeed save a lot of money in the long term. That's not what we're here to do. It's the environment that matters to me. But you can see that by taking measures, you will eventually pay less for your energy, even if the energy prices are going to rise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u7	You have half a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u8	Yes. For involuntary landlords, there is no better motivation to make their homes sustainable than money. So the amount of penalty points I just mentioned could be linked to the level of energy prices. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Not the means but the goal must be central, namely that tenants also have an influence on the sustainability of housing. The means may be adaptation of the rental points system or inclusion of energy performance standards in the right of initiative for tenants. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you very much. Mrs Beckerman of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u10	"Currently the burden is divided in a way that is at odds with a number of principles of justice," CE Delft and the University of Amsterdam concluded last year. We need to switch to sustainable and safe energy, but the way we do it now is unfair and counterproductive. Households see their energy bill rise dramatically because of the extra tax we impose to make it more sustainable. More and more households, especially tenants, are unable to pay their energy bills because of this additional tax. In 2013 we paid an average of €455 in energy taxes, this year it will reach €462. An average family pays €70 more in 2018 compared to last year. They're mostly residents of social rental homes who have it checked out. There are 1 million low-income tenants in poorly isolated homes, which therefore have a towering energy bill. "The poorest households are responsible for climate policy" headlined the NOS once. Because where tenants pay the bill, the biggest polluters barely pay. Households now pay through the gas bill a rate that is 100 times, I repeat, 100 times as high as the rate that the biggest polluters, such as Shell, pay. The same Shell came out this week with the news that it didn't come out less last year, but just more. The energy tax is not only unfair; it does not work either. Mr. Chairman. The climate policy of this government is actually unfair and does not work in this way. Tenants see their energy bills rise while the biggest polluters, such as Shell, are rewarded with the abolition of dividend taxes, exemption from a lot of energy taxes, and again, I repeat, a tax rate that is 100 times as low as that which households pay. How does the Minister explain that to tenants who have just seen their energy bill rise? How fair is that, Minister? What is she going to do for all 750,000 families who are struggling to pay their energy bills? Mr. Chairman. The SP wants a fair climate policy. Previously, we suggested that large polluters pay significantly more ODE, energy tax, and households and small businesses significantly less. We also proposed to quickly make many more social rentals more sustainable. Is the Minister prepared to look at a fair distribution of lusts and burdens? Is the Minister prepared to see how we can make more social housing more sustainable? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to make a new proposal in this debate. We have a tax-free base for energy taxation. The idea is that energy is a right for everyone. But the duty-free rate for energy taxation has been reduced. It is an account of EUR 337 million of energy costs that has been placed on the board of families by the cabinet. Is the Minister prepared to increase the duty-free rate on energy taxation? This ensures a lower energy bill for tenants. Let the polluters pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you. There are questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u12	I now hear the speaker of the SP specifically say that she is also in favour of the sustainability of the social housing. Over the past few months, she has been very hopeful about the sale of rental homes, while it offers the rental sector the opportunity to build new rental homes with the money that is released when rental homes are sold. Thus, for the social rental sector preserved homes are also available. How can I reconcile this with this argument? You have actually blocked this sustainability in the social sector in recent months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u13	That's a really crazy question, because there's a huge shortage of social housing. In cities like Amsterdam, people have to wait 15 years. We are talking about people who often have low incomes, so they have to wait 15 years for an affordable home. For this reason alone, we must ensure that more social housing is created. That is why, together with Mr Nijboer and Mrs Voortman, I have tabled an initiative law to ensure that the number of social housing is maintained. What you're doing, and what the government's doing, is just selling social housing when there's no guarantee that anything will come back. I think I can conclude from your question that you will support the initiative law of Nijboer, Voortman and Beckerman. And then the answer to your question. Do we need that sale to make it more sustainable? That's what you can invest in, isn't it? Because the money that the cabinet makes available for the sustainability of rental homes is a slap in the face. You can buy two of those Snuggies from those ugly fleece blankets per household. You can't make it more sustainable. We really need to invest in that. Making sure the housing shortage gets worse because that's what you do when you sell social rentals... is not the solution. The solution is both more social rentals and more sustainable and investment in them. One final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u14	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u15	As you also know, it is precisely in the places where social housing is sold that speckled property is very difficult to sustain. Because the people who bought a house like that don't have that money at all. That's only gonna make it harder. That's another argument against the sale.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mrs Beckerman makes it a very broad story, but the essence of the story is that the sale of these rental homes enables the corporations to build more homes and to build preserved homes for the target group you want to live with. That's what you should hear from the city aldermen. So I don't understand the link with the whole story you're putting on the table right now. It is precisely that more, and preserved, rentals are realized. And that can only be done if you also allow the movement on the housing market that you are blocking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mrs. Beckerman, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u18	I can't stop noticing it. Isn't it sad and sad that people have been waiting so long for a rental house and you're forcing corporations to sell because you don't want to invest in sustainability and not make extra money available? I'd say do it and-and. Take care of enough homes and keep them stable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u19	Mrs Beckerman talks about the cost of climate policy being borne by tenants. She doesn't think that's fair. She's really worried about that. That is what I am going to do in my speech, but if Mrs Beckerman of the SP does so, it is very hypocritical, because the SP itself is very much in favour of this climate policy. Billions are gonna cost. In fact, hundreds of billions are going to cost it. We don't know exactly how much. If the PVV submits a motion to make that clear, the SP will vote against it. So the SP doesn't want to know exactly how much it costs. And now you are standing here in front of the stage saying that it is so unfair that it ends up with the tenants. You're actually guilty of that yourself, but if we want a solution...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u20	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u21	Then why don't we just put a line through that whole climate policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u22	We can draw a line through the whole climate policy. Suppose you have the majority, then you can do it. But do you know what that means for the province I live in? I live in Groningen, where 140,000 people have a house damaged by gas extraction. Yeah, I wanna get rid of that gas extraction because I see how much trouble it's causing. There are 140,000 people with a house full of damage and many more people in an unsafe house, and 10,000 people who are literally sick. Yeah, I wanna get rid of that gas extraction. You don't want that. Fine. I want to get rid of that, but I want the pleasures and the burdens to be distributed fairly. This means that the people who caused this disaster, the polluters, have to pay. One polluter, for example, is Shell. This now pays a tax rate that is 100 times lower than that of the tenants of a social housing unit. I think that's unfair and I want to change that. Climate policy, yes, but I'd like to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mr Kops, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u24	First of all... If Mrs Beckerman says we don't want to get rid of the Groningen gas, she's lying. We have already discussed this in previous debates, so come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u25	I thought you wanted a line through climate policy. That's...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u26	Mr Kops is working on the second part of his interruption. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u27	Mrs Beckerman also says that the burden should be borne by the companies. How is it going to prevent these costs from being passed on to the citizens in the end? For even the minister of EZK simply acknowledges that in his letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u28	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u29	He simply says: direct and indirect costs will always end up with society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u30	Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u31	So you can leave whatever you want with these companies, but it will still reach the citizens. How are you going to prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u32	Your question is clear. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u33	We would indeed like to put that account there, but not in the case of 'businesses'. We have previously made a proposal to make the energy tax fair. It is now the case that households account for around 30% and sometimes 20% of emissions and the large polluters account for 70% to 80%. So, yeah, we think that account should be at Shell's. And will that be passed on to the customers? Are you sure about that, or does it end up with the shareholders? Shell almost tripled his annual profit last year. I would say: it is time to stop giving presents to the major polluters; it is time to make this climate policy fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u34	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks has the floor. Once again, I call on you to formulate your interruptions somewhat concisely and slightly shorter than the examples of the previous one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u35	Thank you, Mr President. We face the major challenge of limiting global warming as much as possible and implementing the Paris climate agreement. We can only achieve this by significantly reducing CO emissions. The sustainability of housing can make a major contribution to this. However, sustainability costs money and also a considerable effort. In doing so, we must distribute the bill as fairly as possible. GroenLinks has previously proposed that companies that emit much more CO than citizens should make their fair contribution to the energy transition. Now, for example, the ratio in the storage of renewable energy is 50/50. At the time, we proposed making it 60/40. By changing the ratio slightly, the largest polluters are required to make a greater contribution than the citizens. Unfortunately, the majority of the Chamber did not support our proposal at the time. I would like to ask the Minister if she sees any possibility of doing something to ensure that energy costs are more fairly distributed between companies and people. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. Many people see their rent rise every year and also see the energy bill get higher. GroenLinks doesn't think we should just leave the bill with the tenants. Especially the people with the lowest incomes often live in the worst isolated homes and therefore often have a high energy bill. I would like to hear from the Minister how she looks at this problem and what she can do to ensure that people in these homes can quickly benefit from lower energy bills through better insulation. Mr. Chairman. Tenants depend on the good will of the landlord when making their home more sustainable. Corporates often want to, but they don't always have the financial resources. However, in the liberalised sector there are also landlords who do not want to invest in sustainability. One of the possibilities that could contribute to increasing the impact of tenants on accelerating the sustainability of their homes, and thereby reducing the energy bill, is to legally anchor the right of initiative of tenants. During the legislative consultation in December, GroenLinks' motion on an investigation into tenants' right of initiative was adopted. The Minister will inform the Chamber about this before 1 May. I'm curious about the state of play. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Like I said, the energy transition is really necessary. And yes, it requires big investments. GroenLinks wants the costs to be shared fairly and that people with the lowest incomes should not contribute disproportionately. Let us not forget, however, that if we do not make it more sustainable, the consequences will ultimately only be greater and more expensive. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u36	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Koerhuis of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u37	Mr. Chairman. We're standing here today for the climate. The climate is important. We have therefore agreed, as coalition parties in the coalition agreement, that the government will conclude a national climate agreement. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy has set up the climate tables for this. We are having a debate with the Minister of the Interior today. She is attached to the climate table for living and the built environment. That's a big part of the total challenge. We're looking forward to seeing the results of this table. Mr. Chairman. Today's debate is specifically about tenants' energy bills. I understand tenants are worried about this. That is why we made the first agreements with corporations in the energy agreement in 2012. Especially for social tenants, low-income people, an affordable energy bill is extra important. However, companies are not doing enough to comply with the agreements of the Energy Agreement. The deadline to achieve average energy label B is postponed every year. As a VVD, we are not happy with that, because a deal is a deal. That is why I tabled a motion with Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union last week, which was adopted by this Chamber, in order to force corporations to make their social housing more energy efficient. The money's not a problem. Corporations made 18 billion profits last year. On top of this, we have made a grant of 400 million available to make social housing more energy efficient. On top of that, there is also a rising structural discount on the landlord's tax of 100 million per year. In short, corporations have more than enough money available. Finally. The increase in energy taxation to make available, among other things, the 400 million grant is one of the measures contained in the Energy Agreement. That one measure has been picked out by the left and is now placed under a magnifying glass. This increase in energy taxes is now used, among other things, to make social housing more energy efficient. And yes, I have said it before, precisely for social tenants, low-income people, an affordable energy bill is extra important. This is part of the package of measures contained in the energy agreement which will lead to a net reduction of charges and then the reduction in income tax from the government agreement, which is going to be 5 billion, has not even been taken into account. Could the Minister comment on this overall package of measures? Two more sentences. So we are having an unfair debate here. We're just getting ahead of ourselves. That's what I wanted to leave it at.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u38	There are questions. Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u39	I find this interesting. Mr Koerhuis simply says that people should not complain like that because it is all going to be much cheaper. Of course, that is not the reality people see in their accounts. I will leave the debate on landlord tax, but let's talk about the free sector. Let's talk about houses that aren't corporations. Also there live people who are dealing with landlords who cannot, but often do not want to make them more sustainable. What does Mr Koerhuis have in store for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u40	If there is one party standing here for the middle-rent industry, as my amendment for the maintenance of middle-rent housing showed, it is the VVD. If anyone stands for developing the middle-rent industry, then we stand for it as a house.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u41	Yes, but my question was not: who stands for the investors and the landlords, my question is: who stands for the tenants? Who stands for the people who live in those homes? By the way, these are not just people who live in middle-rent. In Amsterdam alone there are 60,000 private social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u42	And my answer was...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u43	So those are also people with lower incomes. What does the VVD do for these people, who see their income rise?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u44	That's what I'm saying: we're in front of the middle-rent industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u45	Yeah, the sector, but the people who live in it. What do you do for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u46	For the middle tenants. If there's one party that wants to keep middle rentals, your party voted against my amendment, if there's one party that wants to keep and build, then it's the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u47	Mr Koerhuis says that the energy cord is actually too non-binding, that too little is happening and that it does not work as it should. What does the VVD think of a point system, as I suggested, with a rental committee that, for example, is going to look at isolation? A poorly isolated house gets penalty points and then you get rent reduction. That's really a driving force for a lot of landlords to start investing; big landlords and small landlords.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u48	Your question is clear. Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u49	What I think is a wonderful example of a measure taken by the previous cabinet is to give more points if you have a better energy label. I welcome these measures, including yours, so I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u50	A little more specific though: if you want to encourage certain landlords to act, you need the carrot on one side and the stick on the other. The stick could be penalty points. Does the VVD also think it is a good idea to make the difference a little bigger?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u51	The stick that we proposed last week and which was adopted by the Chamber this week is in order to legally require landlords, corporations in this case, to become more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mr Koerhuis states that there is enough money in the social housing sector to make it more sustainable. Now, the Waarborg Fund Social Housing has recently produced a report stating that there are serious doubts about the feasibility for many corporations to invest. How am I supposed to see that in the statement you're making?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u53	Before that, the VVD, together with D66, Mrs Van Eijs, tabled a motion, which was also adopted in this Chamber, in order to be able to redistribute between corporations. Indeed, sustainability will be slower or more difficult for low-financial corporations. What's better than corporations being able to help each other, so rich corporations can start helping poor corporations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u54	If I understand correctly, you will immediately want corporations that have always done their job and have their business in order to fill the gaps that are not in that possibility and have perhaps had some worse policies in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u55	I am concerned about the tenants, which we were just talking about; social tenants, low-income people, who are concerned about the affordability of their energy bills. We have to help those people. That's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u56	It's mostly inimitable. If the VVD says a verdict stands like a house, beware, but that's not what my interruption is about. I'm trying to figure out what the VVD thinks of the problems of tenants in a drafty house, seeing the energy bill rise year by year, due to higher energy taxes, which the VVD doesn't like very much either. Is that a problem or not and, if so, what are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u57	I just indicated that we think that is a problem. That is also why I tabled a motion with Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union which was also adopted in this Chamber in order to oblige corporations to do something about those, as you call them, draft houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u58	Mr Koerhuis always sounds very tough, so I'm trying very precisely... the corporations are to blame. In Amsterdam, the left is blamed; that is also easy, then you blame it. The PVV already nods in agreement. But what exactly is going to happen? If you really look at the problem a little seriously, then an adopted motion and saying that it needs to be redistributed a little bit and that it will all work out, not a solution for that tenant who is in the house that needs to be invested in and where there should be a proper deal about solar panels, for example, and who should get a share of the profits from it. That really takes a lot more than a few sneaks to certain corporations and a left-wing college in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u59	In my answer to you, I didn't sneer. I'm just standing up for the social tenants. I also mention this in the motions that we tabled last week and which were adopted this week, assuming that the Minister is now looking at them and is going to implement them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u60	Are you at the end of your speech, Mr. Koerhuis?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u61	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u62	I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The PvdA is deeply concerned about the huge amount of tenants who live in houses that are on all sides tours and poorly maintained and whose energy bills run year by year. We're in favour of environmental taxes. That also lives widely in the Chamber, although not with every party I give the PVV a direct agreement. However, the account now threatens to end up disproportionately with tenants, especially tenants with the lowest incomes. This is mainly about 50's homes in which older people live and people who are in vve's, partly also consisting of tenants and buyers. It's all very slow and difficult. There's just not enough state money available for it. EUR 100 million per year sounds like a lot, but it is a reduction of 1.7 billion. You can replace a light bulb with a savings lamp just for everyone, but then it kind of stops. That's not a serious government approach. So it's just not gonna happen and people are gonna sit on the bill. So my simple question to the cabinet is: how do you prevent those rising energy bills from being coughed up by fewer and fewer people? These amounts have been estimated. How does the cabinet stop that? I haven't heard a convincing answer to that. Blaming the housing corporations for not helping each other enough does not seem to me to be the credible answer. I would also like to draw attention to associations of owners and buyers who can also be difficult to sustain. We've made some arrangements available, but if you're all in a flat together, you have to agree a little bit. Is that what it's coming from? Can these people achieve their savings? For example, are the deadlines set for subsidised loans granted for sustainability, which the PvdA strongly supports, not too short? If you have to write everything off in ten years, I believe that the maximum is fifteen years, then the payback period, especially for heat pumps and that sort of thing, is much longer. It's a shame if you leave that alone. Will the Minister look at the possibility of extending these deadlines for those groups and perhaps also for collectives, such as VVEs, whether or not combined with tenants? In this way, there is an opportunity to do something good for the environment, which is intrinsic motivation for the Party for the Animals already enough, while at the same time looking at the people who have to make the calculation whether they can afford it at all. Are there any other ways to make it possible for tenants to do that? I'm asking the Cabinet for a solid answer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u64	Thank you. I call Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What a bunch of hypocrites, all those parties here in this Chamber! Oh, they all hate that rising energy bill. Oh, they all hate it. But in the meantime, all of them, all of them, are very much in favour of the energy transition, and that energy bill is going up so hugely! So I would like to say: please, stop tears of crocodiles, stop talking about them, because you are all the Minister also part of the problem. Mr. Chairman. There are elderly people who can literally no longer pay the bill, elderly people who are literally sitting in the cold and in the dark. In the Netherlands this is the reality in 2018. In an earlier debate, the PVV talked about elderly people living in the kitchen in Veenendaal, so they didn't have to turn on the heating in the living room. But, well, the minister and the other parties didn't care, not a goddamn thing. And now it's time for the elderly in The Hague. Last week it was announced that they too would no longer dare to burn out of fear of the bill, because of the fear of recharges from hundreds to thousands of euros. Mr. Chairman. You can't do that! How many households currently have payment problems, I ask the Minister. And how many older people are we talking about here? I'd like a response. Let's face it: we are talking about vulnerable elderly people with a small AOW, who are being haunted by towering bills. How painful you want it! And how did this happen, Mr. Chairman? That's because of this cabinet, this cabinet that raises energy taxes hugely. And that with ease the bill goes up hundreds of euros, is just the beginning. It will be much and much worse in the coming years. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, People need to get to the heat pump. This thing costs thousands of euros. Who's gonna pay for that? The same households, of course. Anything for the energy transition. Everything, because sustainability fanatics think they have to and can influence the development of the climate. And precisely because of this delusion of grandeur, the elderly are now in the cold. Mr. Chairman. Energy is a basic requirement, but this cabinet makes it a very expensive luxury product. This simply means too expensive, priceless for more and more households. What does the Minister have to offer these households in concrete terms? And please not a woolly answer as we are used to from this minister, but just concrete. How are you gonna fix this? What are you going to do about it for all the vulnerable elderly and all the other households that are throwing this cabinet into the financial abyss with this policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u66	Thank you, Mr Kops. I call Mr Ronnes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate was a message from the NIS stating that the cabinet made an overly rosy estimate of the energy bill for the coming years. The NOS quoted the Association Eigen Huis, which expects the energy tax of around €570 this year to grow to about €835 in 2021. This also concerns older people who have always been energy-efficient and middle-income families, who are now seeing their costs increase due to increases in energy taxation and storage of renewable energy and are deeply concerned about the affordability of their homes in the future. We must prevent the individual from drowning in sustainability. How does the Minister ensure that vulnerable groups such as the elderly with an AOW and those with middle incomes will continue to have an affordable energy supply? The government's calculations are based on a higher load on gas on the one hand, but on the other hand, on the assumption that we are using more and more energy-efficient devices. Houses are also better insulated. The assumption for the calculations would be correct if households were to exchange their refrigerators and washing machines for more economical models in the coming years, while the old ones are not broken yet. My question is therefore on which ministers base their optimism. Is it wet fingering or is it grounded that people are actually going to use less power? For many in the rental sector, more economical models are not always at your fingertips. I think that the calculations need to be adjusted again, because after that the decision was taken to close the gas tap completely in Groningen. That won't be free. The CDA wants a solid foundation on the housing costs of tenants. The Empire will have to give that vision of the future to the citizens. What can we expect from the cabinet when it comes to understanding the future costs of our citizens' energy costs? Tenants are highly dependent on housing corporations and landlords. So it's hard to blame the tenants. Therefore, the CDA suggests that the points system should weigh sustainability into the rental price, even more than is already done, so that owners of rental homes are stimulated to make the necessary adjustments and otherwise will receive less rental income. In this context, I would like to refer to a motion tabled and adopted on the initiative of the CDA and a number of other parties last Tuesday. It states that tenants should also be able to benefit financially from sustainability and that a housing burden approach may be part of the solution to achieve that result. Finally. Private landlords will also have to contribute. In what way will the Minister ensure that this group is involved in achieving the objectives? There too, income effects play a role. I ask the Minister if she has this image. Does the Minister have control over energy saving in rental homes that are not owned by housing corporations? I'd like to look forward to the answer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u68	Thank you. Mr Kops, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u69	I had to think very carefully, Mr. Chairman. I couldn't believe it, so much bullshit. Was Mr Ronnes really talking about understanding the total cost? What kind of bullshit is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u70	No, Mr. Kops. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u71	We've filed motions over and over again. Then why does the CDA always vote against our motions calling on the cabinet to provide insight into the costs? What are you standing here for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u72	No, Mr. Kops, there's no need for that. Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u73	Mr President, I am a little shocked by the use of words in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u74	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u75	I do not think that is the way we Members of Parliament should deal with each other...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u76	I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u77	... even though we disagree. Anyway, then an answer to Mr Kops. The point is, we're gonna have to open our eyes. We can't put our heads in the sand. I can't. That is why it seems to me no less necessary to give real insight into the consequences of the changes that we can all bring about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u78	I believe that Mr Wassenberg was next.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u79	If I agree with the CDA, I'm always pleasantly surprised. Then I think, "I can't believe my ears." So I'm gonna ask you a few more questions. Do I hear correctly that Mr Ronnes is also in favour of an adjustment of the Commission's points system, whereby penalty points are allocated for poorly isolated housing, which can result in a lower price?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u80	Mr Koerhuis mentioned it earlier: there is already a certain system in the current point allocation. I think there might be some way to improve that. If that's what you're saying, I'm sure I'm prepared to look into it. I'm very curious to know how the Minister will react to it and if she can do anything with it. Perhaps in the second term we can determine whether there can be a motion in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u81	That's what I'm waiting for. We will, of course, wait for the Minister's answer first. A motion could always be just like that, but I shall close it briefly with Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u82	Then it is Mr Koerhuis' turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u83	To get it very sharp: points can indeed already be awarded for a better energy label. Does Mr Ronnes propose that there should be a credit deduction if there is a worse energy label and that rents of corporation houses can be reduced retroactively?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u84	You are already ahead of what the solution is. I am asking whether we can incorporate into that point system a mechanism that creates incentives. I am not ruling it out, but it has not been said that it should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u85	You're not ruling it out. Not only me, but also colleagues on the left and right of me have been calling for lower rents in this Chamber for corporate housing. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u86	I'm sorry, what do you mean by your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u87	Repeat your question, Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u88	Together with colleagues on the left and right, we have been talking about high rents at corporations for a long time and perhaps we should do something about that. Think, for example, of a reduction in the maximum rental price of corporations. Are you willing to look at that, too, if you're worried about over-renting?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u89	You are now taking a different approach. I'm trying to put something on the table here that will give us the move that more homes will be deliberately made energy neutral. The same applies to people who depend on housing in the social housing sector. In this category, too, we must ensure that it gets started. The idea is that it could happen with this medicine. I am very curious whether this is also one of the Minister's ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u90	Mr. Ronnes, thank you very much. Finally, Mrs Van Eijs of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u91	Mr. Chairman. Energy saving is the best form of renewable energy, Mr Nijpels said yesterday. This was about the climate agreement and combating climate change. This debate is about the rising energy bill, which still affects far too many tenants every day. The more sustainable, the more energy efficient the house, the lower the energy bill. Of course, we prefer that everyone lives in an energy-neutral house. Then we won't have to deal with the energy bill anymore. But unfortunately, we haven't got that far yet. Due to the rising energy price, it pays faster to invest in insulation and more economical installations. Unfortunately, many tenants have little influence on the energy efficiency of their homes. Especially in the current housing market you can't just move to an energy-efficient house. That is why we have also agreed on a number of measures in the climate agreement. As far as D66 is concerned, there are also agreements with landlords, and not only with corporations, about the sustainability of housing. We also agreed to a discount on the rental tax. And the minister and we in the Chamber are also working on building-related funding. Can this also be used by private landlords to make their homes more sustainable? As far as D66 is concerned, this is not the end of it. There is not yet a real incentive for landlords to become more sustainable. If the energy bill drops, only the tenant will notice, and not the landlord. Of course, the value of the house is increasing, but that often does not outweigh the investment. That is why we would like research to be carried out into a financial incentive for landlords with low energy label homes. Think, for example, of a mandatory discount on the rent. Of course, there are a lot of hooks and eyes on it. That is why we would like to see an investigation first. The aim of this is also to get the private rental market preserved, because in view of the climate we stand for and the rising energy prices, all homes in the Netherlands should eventually become energy efficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u93	I'm reopening the meeting. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you to all the spokesmen for their contributions. However, I can conclude with caution that the whole Chamber, from the left to the right, attaches importance to the subject. Everyone really wants us to do more, to save more energy and to move forward with sustainability. And that requires a strong ambition from a lot of parties, because we can't do that alone here. What I also taste is that we all think that a balanced distribution of income is desirable in this respect, and that is what the Cabinet is paying attention to. So I am actually happy that, apart from all the differences and the pitch used, we can really find each other in the sustainability, the interest of the tenants and the role of the landlords. I think that the climate agreement, which is currently being discussed at many tables, is very important for that and that the affordability of the energy bill on those tables should also be a subject, actually an overarching issue, of discussion. And it is. Of course, agreements have already been made with the housing corporations, including in the energy agreement, to make the housing stock for which they are responsible more sustainable, so that the energy consumption of the tenants in the social housing units will decrease. Of course, there is also more and more attention from people themselves to adapt their own behaviour and thus remedy unnecessary consumption and thereby influence the energy bill. So much is happening and at the same time there is much more to be done. It is still too early, I think, to draw conclusions on how, in the longer term, these costs will turn out and how they will fall. However, it is an important issue that is rightly addressed. By the way, I have often said this here in response to previous questions from Mr Nijboer, it is of course important for people what the whole purchasing power development looks like for them. There could be pluses and there could be minuses. Sometimes they fall apart, but on balance we want to see, of course, that is also the outcome of the coalition agreement. Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to answer the questions as they were asked. Mr Wassenberg, who has also asked for the debate, has asked a number of questions which are mostly about the tenants and the costs they incur because of the energy costs. He also drew attention to the right of initiative. This is already the case, for example, in the case of specific housing improvements. The tenants can do this already with insulation or the replacement of an old central heating boiler. But there is also a motion from Mrs Voortman. I'll be right back to ask her questions. There's another motion Nijboer and a motion Ronnes and they're all about tenants and sustainability. It is also all part of the conversations that are currently taking place. I am, of course, also working on the housing agenda in which this is high on the agenda. Mr Wassenberg's first question was about energy performance requirements and whether they could be enshrined in that right of initiative. I'm investigating it now; that's what the motion asked for. I am actually doing so by setting this issue at the table on the one hand, where we are talking about the housing agenda with all the parties. On the other hand, I do so by drawing attention to this in the climate agreement. In part, what Mr Wassenberg is asking for is also possible. This applies very specifically to a lack as a draft, because you can already get a reduction for that. The question is, of course, whether more can or should be possible, and that is part of that research. He also asked whether the level of the rental price could be differentiated on the basis of energy performance. There is already a differentiation in the points system, but Mr Wassenberg undoubtedly knows that. In the case of poor energy performance, this leads to a lower maximum rental price and the question is, of course, whether this should be tightened. I'd like to discuss that with the parties. Of course, on the other hand, the parties, the housing corporations, will say: we also need investment space for sustainability. In this respect, they will object to the fact that it can be counterproductive. I think that not so much the instrument as the goal is the most important. I think we should explore a range of instruments, and I think this is one of them. That is why I said that I want to discuss this with the Housing Agenda and the Climate Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u95	Maybe I'm going into too much detail right now, but it's true: the sustainability of homes is already rewarded in the points system and therefore also in the rent you can charge. But right now you still get a reward in the points system for a house with label F. Shouldn't it be the case that, as time passes and our climate challenge becomes clearer, it is again being considered whether as a housing corporation you should still be rewarded for a label F?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u96	That's a question I wanted to come back to later. Mr Ronnes has asked for this too. I'd be happy to do that now. If we agree on the need for housing to be preserved, that is the objective that we all have, then it is wise to look at the incentives that are now in the system and to adapt them, if they are wrong incentives. In fact, as a result of the debate, I would like to assure you that this will indeed be taken into account. We are going to see if the way that is now in the point system might have to be different in order to achieve a better result. I can imagine, but it is something that needs to be looked at further. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Beckerman always pays a lot of attention to the quality of social housing, and rightly so. I was positively affected by her question of how we can make more social housing more sustainable. Much will have to be done and much will also be done. The housing corporations have committed to go to label B by 2021. That means they have to adjust some 550,000 homes in that year. Earlier, they had the ambition to achieve this earlier. That seemed too ambitious at the time, but they now have this ambition and expect to achieve it. That's about very large numbers. Mrs Beckerman also raised the question of whether the distribution of energy taxation between citizens and businesses could be different. My colleague Wiebes, the Minister of EZK, has already informed the Chamber about the situation and how it would turn out if you wanted to do it differently. In any case, I shall come back to the climate agreement, because that must of course be part of it. I believe, moreover, that Mr Wiebes promised the Chamber that he would come back to that again, so you will get that on your own. Mrs Beckerman also specifically asked whether it would be a good idea to adjust the duty-free base. As I said in my introduction, of course we are looking at purchasing power in the broad sense, so across the board. I do not wish to highlight any separate measures there. As I said, the purchasing power as a whole shows a positive picture for the income groups. This specific measure then lies with my colleague in the finance sector, I think together with EZK in this case. So I would not be in favour of clarifying this particular point there. Then I'll come to Mrs. Voortman. She asked about the state of play in the investigation of the right of initiative. I'd like to go back with her in time, to a time when I think she was already in the Chamber. In 2011, then Minister Donner submitted a bill that saw that right of initiative. There were a lot of hooks and eyes on that, let me put it this way, because that bill has been withdrawn again. In fact, it is now on the table again, at least not the legislative proposal as such, but it is the subject, in fact the content, the scope of the legislative proposal. That's what I brought with me in those meetings at the Housing Agenda. I expect to get the reactions of the parties from Aedes, Woonbond, Real Estate Interest and so on next month, you know the parties. Then we can see, on the basis of your request and your motion, whether we can proceed with that. Mrs Voortman also paid attention to lower incomes. Ultimately, improving housing in the context of sustainability is the best thing we can do for everyone. You have to make big investments to achieve that sustainability. This has an impact, but there is also a positive impact on the energy bill. I have just mentioned the great ambition of the corporations for the coming years to make 550,000 homes more sustainable. Mr Koerhuis inquired about the Koerhuis/Dik-Faber motion (32847, nr. 353) on labelling. This motion has really been adopted very recently. I can't say much more about it than I already have. In general, I can tell you that the Energy Agreement Security Committee has recently agreed to an additional package of measures submitted by the sector. According to the Committee on Guarantee, this is the best way to achieve an additional saving in the short term. In the medium and long term, I cannot anticipate the talks under the climate agreement. Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party also paid attention to the tenants and especially to the people with the lower incomes involved in an increasing energy bill. The energy bill could be a minus. That is also due to the energy tax. That is, of course, also a choice, namely the choice of greening. This in turn has to be counter-productive, such as labour costs, labour reductions, higher general tax reductions and lower rates of income tax. We in the cabinet are concerned that the balance is positive for the income groups. Mr Nijboer had a specific question about the loan periods. I don't know if he wants it answered now or if he wants to interrupt first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u97	There are actually two problems. Macroeconomically, you can see that tenants are put behind buyers. We have had a debate on this before. The tenants get 0.8% and the buyers get 1.4%. That happens year after year. In addition, within the group of tenants there are people with a small income who live in a drafty fifty-six house that nothing happens about. That's hundreds of thousands. Those people are screwed. That's the trouble. Then you don't come up with a purchasing power picture; a general purchasing power image that I already don't like. We've talked about this extensively before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u98	Let me start by saying that the plus is essential. You might wonder how big the plus must be. For one group it is a bit different than for the other group, but it is a plus. For the group that Mr Nijboer is talking about, and I agree with him, of course, the most important thing is that the houses are also dealt with. That's why the corporations just have to realize their ambition. They must indeed ensure that, over the next three or four years, those 550,000 homes go to the higher label. That's the best thing for the people who live there, on balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u99	In these economic times, it would have been quite an achievement to place a minus for the tenants. The Minister is very happy with that plus. However, it is a lot of houses. It also matters whether you're working or older. When you're old, you'll be home a lot. Those people go on vacation sometimes, but they're usually at home during the week. They're devoid of much more than people who work. Sometimes the energy costs are up to €200 or €300 and these costs are only increasing further. The general statement that housing corporations should do their best, I think given the problems that people have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u100	Well, they don't just have to do their best, they also have to achieve their goals. For a tenant living in a house that needs to be preserved, this will always cause some inconvenience. That's practically awkward because they have to get out of their homes. It's also discomfort because you have to adjust to a different distribution between rent and energy costs. When it's all realized in the end and when those 550,000 homes have that better label, you'll have both more living comfort and a lower energy bill. Although I see that it is quite profound for some people, it is necessary and need to be achieved. Eventually it is also better for the tenants, because they notice in their wallet that the energy bill has become lower. Then there are the loan deadlines. Mr Nijboer informed whether they might be extended. I am talking about this with the National Energy Savings Fund, to see if, for example, the loan period for vves could be up to 30 years. I am also looking at the idea that Mrs Van Eijs referred to this in the context of the climate agreement about building-related or object-related financing. So that is a subject that is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u101	Before you go any further, Mrs Van Eijs has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u102	I'm glad it's being discussed, but my question was a little more specific. My question was whether private landlords could also make use of building-related funding. We often talk about homeowners now. That is very important, but there are also private landlords who may be benevolent. Can they therefore make use of building-related or project-related funding?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u103	In response to Mrs Van Eijs' question, I would like to say that we are seeing if we can do it at all. This building-related funding is difficult, but we all think it would be very good if we could come up with a solution. Breder I think it would be good if the financial incentive you could make up for landlords would be part of the whole thing. So in that sense, I would say, yes, we should take it with us. Mr Kops asked for attention for people who are struggling. There are indeed households in the Netherlands who have difficulty in paying the energy bill. He asked how many there are. There are about 150,000 households called "small consumer connections"......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He also asked how many older people they are. I'm not sure. You can say that on the whole of 7.5 million small consumer connections, 7.5 million households, 150,000 is not very much. That's about 2%, I say out of my head. But in the end, 150,000 is, of course, a considerable number. Those people all have to make arrangements somehow. Fortunately, people in the Netherlands are not just put in the cold. This is really taken into account, including by the customers. You can't just do it. Late payments are, of course, very annoying, especially in a broader context of debt problems. It is good to hear that Mr Kops is paying attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u104	Mr Kops has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister trivializes it a little bit: 2%. Yeah, you're gonna be just fine. You won't be able to pay the bill and sit in the dark. But I also asked what the Minister is actually going to do for these people. Because the costs are only increasing. So the number of people that are getting into trouble is also increasing. Does the Minister simply allow that to happen or does she have a solution to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u106	Mr Kops echoed a bit of my words, because I said that there are 150,000 and that is on the total of the connections, of the households, not so much, but you will only be one of those 150,000. So that's what Mr Kops just heard me say. In the Netherlands people cannot simply be cut off from gas, electricity and heat. That is a very important point. That means that people don't end up in the dark or in the cold in the middle of winter. There is attention, also from the municipalities, for people with debt problems at all. People need to get out of there as soon as possible. It can, of course, be very different per case, per person, per individual or per family. It can be about people who need help in the labour market. There is nothing general to say about it. I do think that attention is important in terms of purchasing power development and also for tenants, such as allocating suitable housing. On the other hand, attention should also be paid to how older people are affected by their energy bills and housing costs. Those are indeed important things. I think we should keep this group specifically in mind in that sense. We need to make sure things don't go wrong there. I come to Mr Ronnes' questions. As a result of a question from Mrs Van Eijs, a few words have just been said about the points system. This system already takes into account the energy performance of the rental house. That is what Mr Ronnes asked for. Therefore, in the context of everything that needs to be done now with the housing agenda and with the climate agreement, it could indeed be considered whether tightening up or adapting it would be an effective instrument. I am actually saying that in line with what I just said to Mrs Van Eijs. Mr Ronnes also drew attention to the future costs of the energy transition. I think that in the broad sense of the climate agreement we should all have the attention of the cabinet, because that is, of course, an essential point. I said something about it in my introduction. The question of how the burden is then distributed also plays a role. My colleague Wiebes van EZK also pays attention to this. So this comes back in the context of the climate agreement. Mr Ronnes also felt that we were a little optimistic about energy consumption in the future. Well, we base ourselves on the Planning Office for the Environment and ECN. So it is actually our mathematicians who portray this, of course as objectively as possible. If you just look at the trend, you can see that energy consumption has declined in recent years. The expectation, including from these two bodies, is that this trend will continue. There is a logic in this too, because if new construction is better insulated, housing is improved and installations become more economical, you would indeed expect that trend to continue, also of course because the technique is progressing. As I have just said, this does not mean that every individual household will always have the financial means to purchase new, energy-efficient devices. However, the trend is towards more energy-efficient energy consumption. We have also just talked about the role of private landlords in sustainability. Private landlords are also involved in the climate agreement and the Housing Agenda. Of course, the points system also applies to them, and it is also important that they are part of the agreements we are about to make. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my answer, because I have already answered Mrs Van Eijs' question in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u107	Thank you. I see Mrs Voortman has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u108	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u109	I started with GroenLinks' proposal to make a different division between companies and people, a proposal that was previously rejected. I was wondering if there are any other ways we could do something to share the burden more fairly in the energy transition in the built environment. Is the Minister prepared to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u110	I can do this; I have actually promised this before. There is of course now the Table Built environment led by Diederik Samsom. These issues are discussed at that table. My colleague Eric Wiebes has already sent a letter to your Chamber on this subject once in general. I do not know whether this has been a debate, but he will come back to that. It is therefore best to talk about this division at that table. That table is, of course, the place where new ideas have to come from and where this kind of information could also play a role. So I have no objection at all to bringing that to the attention of that table again. At the same time, however, I must say that we have a starting point, of course, and we are sticking to it until a new situation arises. My commitment is therefore to discuss the distribution that we envisage and to draw attention to that table of Wiebes' letter. But maybe that's what Mrs Voortman wanted to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u111	Looks like it. I'm looking at the members. Is there a need for a second term? I can see that that is the case, so that is what we are going to do. The first speaker is the applicant for this debate, Mr Wassenberg. I propose one minute's speaking time, but I see that Mr Wassenberg thinks that this is too short. One-and-a-half minutes, too. Can you do that? We're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u112	I've got three fairly short motions and I'm gonna try to do it intelligible. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a point system for social housing to determine the maximum rental price of a social housing;]] [[noting that the role of the energy performance of a home is small;]] [[Whereas this does not provide sufficient incentive for the landlord to make a house more sustainable;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to strengthen the points system in the field of energy performance of a home,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34762-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u113	Mr President, I am going to make it easy! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the "own-initiative right of tenants" allows tenants to make the improvement proposals for their rental house, which, if reasonable, should be taken over by the landlord;]] [[Whereas the explicit inclusion of the energy performance of housing will give a good incentive to landlords to engage seriously in the energy transition;]] [[calls on the Government to state in the "own-initiative right of tenants" that the tenant must be able to propose a reduction in the rent if the property cannot be substantially preserved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34762-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u114	Time is running out, Mr President, but I assume you'll give me back those seconds immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that energy tariffs will increase rapidly in the coming years;]] [[noting that home insulation and own energy generation contribute to lower gas and electricity consumption, allowing the energy bill to remain or decrease;]] [[noting that tenants are dependent on landlords to make their property more sustainable;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how tenants who run into poorly isolated housing at higher energy costs can be granted the right to improve their housing and, if not, to allow these tenants to pay less rent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34762-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u116	There's one more question, Mr. Wassenberg. Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u117	We do not yet have the motions in writing, but I have a question about the second motion, that tenants can enforce a rent reduction. Can they enforce that on the basis of the points system at the Rent Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u118	No, it doesn't have to be on the Rent Committee. Or do I misunderstand your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u119	I'd like to explain a little more. A tenant and a landlord have agreed a rental price in a contract. You're suggesting that the tenant can lower that one-sidedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u120	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u121	Who's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u122	At the landlord's.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u123	Short, Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u124	And if that landlord doesn't agree, then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u125	That point system should lead to a legal lease. The moment you don't have an agreement, that rent will be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u126	Okay, thank you. Mrs Beckerman of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u127	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that energy is a basic duty and that therefore a duty-free base on energy taxation has been established;]] [[Whereas the duty-free rate does not correspond to real energy consumption and increases energy poverty;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to increase the tax-free rate on energy taxation for households and to return the results to the Chamber before Prinsjesdag,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34762-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u128	There's no more questions, so I'm gonna run.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u129	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. We're moving on to Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mr President, first of all, a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas citizens contribute relatively much more to the energy transition than large companies;]] [[Whereas a higher energy bill for a low-income person has a relatively high impact on purchasing power;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how the cost of the energy transition in the built environment can be distributed as fairly as possible and to inform the Chamber about this in the 2019 budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34762-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u131	Mr. Chairman. The Minister indicated that she expected that the Table Building environment under the direction of Mr Samsom would also discuss this. She also mentioned "as foreseen." As far as we are concerned, it is really important that there should also be a fairer distribution. That is why I tabled this motion. If it turns out that it is superfluous and that it fits in perfectly with the Minister's plans, I would be happy to withdraw it. As for the right of initiative for tenants, the following. I am indeed aware that there was earlier a proposal on the right of initiative for tenants, which was withdrawn by one of the predecessors of this minister. But this minister says that the position of tenants and the possibilities to develop their own initiatives are important, so I expect from this minister a little more than its predecessor. That is why I am very curious about the feedback she will give us around 1 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u132	There are a number of questions. Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u133	I have not yet seen the motion in writing, of course, but if I have understood Mrs Voortman correctly, she would like to call on the government to provide insight into the cost of the energy transition in the built environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u134	No. Our intention is to investigate whether the distribution of costs between companies and people can be fairer. Now it is the case that companies that emit a lot of CO pay relatively less than tenants, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u135	Yeah, that's true. And how is Mrs Voortman going to prevent companies from paying more, passing it on to citizens, consumers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u136	That is indeed a good question. I do not have a ready answer to that, but it is crucial that we make that energy transition. That's why this is necessary. You could, of course, think of increasing the burden on companies. However, Mr Kops will say: yes, that will be passed on. The energy transition should simply take place, to the left or to the right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u137	Mr Kops, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u138	A brief conclusion: the conclusion of GroenLinks is that the energy transition must simply take place, even if it is going to cost hundreds of billions and the citizens are going to pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u139	The energy transition simply needs to come, because if we don't, then next generations will suffer much more. We should have done this in previous generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u140	Let me ask you a question to get it sharp. Mrs. Beckerman is talking about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u141	Mrs. Voortman, Mr. Koerhuis!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u142	Mrs Voortman talks about redistributing the burden of the energy transition. Just as clearly: is she only talking about companies versus people, or is she also talking about people among themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u143	I'm talking first of all about companies versus people. You might as well look at people among yourselves, but I deliberately left that space in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u144	Are you sure you're okay with that motion? 'Cause we're talking about the housing market here. Speaking of companies and people, this motion seems more appropriate to me, for example, in an economic and climate debate. If you're really talking about redistributing between people, then I'd like to suggest that we bring it in to finance or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u145	I am specifically concerned here with the built environment. This is the minister of the built environment. I have included this in the motion, which is why I think it should be discussed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u146	Okay, thank you. We shall now proceed to Mr Koerhuis. He doesn't have a second term, I understand. I am sure Mr Nijboer would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the duration of the Energy Savings Loan from the National Energy Savings Fund is often too short compared to the payback period of energy saving measures;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the duration of the energy savings loan for investments with a longer payback period than 15 years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34762-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u148	Especially with larger interventions, it sometimes gets some 20 to 25 years, especially those heat pumps and so on. Then it's a little crazy to have to write that off within 10 to 15 years, because then those investments will not come off the ground. That can be remedied quite easily. I also understood that the Minister would like to think in that direction, so if she wants to take over the motion, that is also an agreement. If I get a firm commitment, I might be able to withdraw the motion. But I do think it's important that it happens. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for her response. Unfortunately, it is not the beginning of a solution, because the train called "energy transition" continues to thunder. That's a train that's doomed to derail. The PVV can predict you: this is going terribly wrong. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to stop the energy transition and ensure that the energy bill goes down,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34762-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u151	Thank you. I call Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u152	Thank you. First of all, a question to the Minister, or actually two. First, the private tenants. We know the target for corporations to go to label B on average by 2020. It was also agreed that private tenants would go to label C on average in 2020. How's that going? That is the first question. If this is not feasible, what measures could the Minister take? Or what could she discuss with that group to see how that could be achieved? The second point is the following. I have just told Mr Koerhuis that the WSW indicates that there are a lot of corporations that simply do not manage to accomplish their task because they are in a bad way financially. What are the steps the Minister is going to take? A third point concerns the point system. I am tabling a motion on this with Mrs Van Eijs. Mrs Van Eijs will be submitting these later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u153	Thank you. I call Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u154	Mr. Chairman. Mr Ronnes has already announced that I am tabling the following motion on behalf of Mr Ronnes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the built environment contributes significantly to CO emissions;]] [[noting that low-energy-label homes provide a higher energy bill for the same lifestyle;]] [[noting that the Energy-Index of a dwelling already counts in the points system;]] [[Whereas introducing an incentive for landlords to be sustainable can help achieve the Paris climate goals;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether it is possible and desirable to strengthen the financial incentive for landlords to make their homes more sustainable, for example by making the Energy Index more heavily included in the points system;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether it is possible and desirable to introduce a financial incentive for landlords to make their homes more sustainable, including in the case of liberalised housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Eijs and Mr Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34762-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u155	Yes. I hear financial incentives for liberalised rentals. I wonder how Mrs Van Eijs sees that in mind. A tenant and a landlord agree a rental price. So what's the financial incentive supposed to look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u156	That's a good question. That is difficult, because otherwise, of course, we would have had an instrument by now. But it could possibly be through the ozb, or we should see if within the freedom that such a contract offers there might be opportunities for a discount or a maximation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u157	I hear the word "ozb" falling. Then you come to the same discussion that I ended with Mrs. Voortman. That is a redistribution debate, and I think it belongs to Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u158	Mrs Van Eijs, would you like to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u159	I didn't quite understand the last piece, so I'm not sure if it was a question. It sounded like a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u160	I believe that Mr Koerhuis said that this part of your motion belongs to Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u161	I think that's an opinion and not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u162	Yeah, that's right. That's definitely an opinion. The Minister has indicated that he needs five minutes to prepare her response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u163	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u164	Mr. Chairman. There are a few more questions from Mr Ronnes. He asked one question about the private landlords. He is right to draw attention to this, because they, too, of course, must be made more sustainable. The realisation of the ambition of label C in 2020 is not yet in the right direction, so it is very important to make arrangements with these landlords at the table to see how they can do something extra, so that we can see the original ambition, because this is worrying. It is good that Mr Ronnes is asking for that. At least we're at the table. I hope that new agreements are to be made with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u165	Then you don't mean the climate table, but a separate table with really specific private landlords?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u166	It's the climate table, or actually the sub-table built environment, where that conversation needs to be held. There, of course, everyone's share is also looked at. As you know, my predecessor, Mr Blok, was able at some point to deal with housing corporations in the form of that covenant. If you look at the whole thing and see that the private landlords also have to deliver, I have the hope that at the table for the built environment new ideas will also emerge and new ways will be found to achieve sustainability. If necessary, of course, I'm going to talk to the private landlords separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u167	I am pleased with the latter, because the corporations are also addressing the 2020 targets. I believe that we should do the same in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u168	Yes, I think Mr Ronnes is right about that. Mr Ronnes also asked about the housing corporations which, if I understood him correctly, are somewhat less financially strong than others. For this reason, average label B has been agreed across the board. The fact is that we have exchanged this more often with each other, and that there is sufficient investment space throughout the corporate sector. But if you zoom in, there are, of course, differences between the corporations. It's a fair question. I am talking about this with the housing corporations' umbrella organisation. That's where we're gonna have to tackle this problem with each other. Then there are the motions, Mr. Chairman. The first motion tabled by Mr Wassenberg, which was adopted by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, was adopted by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 17 asks for a study on how the point system in the field of energy performance could be strengthened. That subject has passed a few times this afternoon. For this reason, I have already stressed that this could be done as far as I am concerned, and I leave the vote to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u169	The motion in part No. 17 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u170	Yeah, sure. The second motion by Mr Wassenberg, which was tabled in part No. 18, I wouldn't recommend it. This motion goes a little further. I have said that I am still working on the investigation requested by the Chamber on the right of initiative, so it is going too far for me to record this by means of a motion. First research and then propose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u171	Then I'm prepared to hold this motion for a moment. It would be nice if the Minister kept us informed about the negotiations, the talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u172	I would like to keep the Chamber informed, so thank you for holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u173	At the request of Mr Wassenberg, I propose his motion (34762, No. 18). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u174	The third motion tabled by Mr Wassenberg, which was rejected by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, was adopted by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 19, sees on an investigation and again a right for tenants to improve their property and pay less rent if they fail to do so. That, too, is what I would like to involve in the whole of research that is currently under way. That is why I would like to leave this motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u175	I have the same question to the Minister as to Mr Wassenberg. We need to be very clear about the point system. Otherwise, I don't understand how a lower rent can be unilaterally enforced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u176	I think that's tricky, too. In fact, I have just concluded that a lot of what is in that research is seeing that point system and how else you could do it, so that there is a good incentive in it. That's how I interpreted this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u177	So this motion gets judgment, huh, Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u178	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u179	Then we go to the fourth motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u180	The Beckerman motion in part No. 20 is actually a question that she asked in the debate and which she now converts into a motion. In response to that question, I said that I am not in favour of explaining an isolated measure in this way. That's why I have to discourage the motion. I said that the cabinet is looking at tax measures at all as part of a broader analysis and discussion, but not in this way. That's why I'm deposing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u181	It is actually a rather simple question: why do we have a tax-free base?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u182	This responds to how we want to organise our tax system and how we pay attention to fair distribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u183	Yeah, but what if you can't get rid of that tax-free foot right now? A lot of people, and certainly tenants, can't just use energy in that tax-free foot. Then it doesn't seem crazy to me to see if that instrument still works. The motion is actually asking to find out, because it could help a lot of families who are now in energy poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u184	I understand the reasoning and I can well imagine Mrs Beckerman saying so from her perspective. I have just argued that we are looking at the whole range of measures. Sometimes we choose, and in the case of the energy tax, we choose to increase and increase it. We are also looking for other instruments, for example on the labour side, to reduce the burden there. The outcome of the whole of pluses and minuses is seen in relation to the lowest incomes. That is why I would not like to see this measure isolated. I can, of course, point out to my colleagues in the Finance Committee that this has been requested and could perhaps be given a place in a broader analysis, in how they look at the whole of taxation and energy taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u185	The judgment is therefore dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u186	The verdict is still that I'm deceiving the motion. Then there is the motion for a resolution by Mr Voortman on part No. 21. I thought Mrs Voortman said that she did submit the motion, but that she also made a commitment. I think I just promised that this is part of how the climate agreement is being worked. Of course, it is always a matter of taste; what one finds very fair, the other might find less honest. I would add that, but I made a commitment to examine and discuss the energy transition in the built environment and its distribution within the framework of the climate agreement and the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u187	I got a little stuck with the words: as we anticipated. Does that mean that we have plans to get to those tables to work out the climate agreement, or does that mean that we remain on the road we are on? It is clear to me that we need to move towards a fairer division between businesses and citizens. That's what I was worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u188	Clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u189	I shall come back to what Mr Wiebes has exchanged with your Chamber about the fifty-fifty distribution as it is. He has sent a letter about the possible effects of another division, while also holding on to the distribution as it is. I said that at the table for the built environment we ask how the cost of the energy transition will fall and what would be a good distribution in their perspective. Then, of course, I am open to the suggestions of the table. That is not a change of view on purchasing power, which it has been about before, or on the distribution that has been envisaged.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u190	The Minister is open to the suggestions of the table. I understand we're sitting on fifty-fifty, but we're open to the table. Then I'll hold the motion and we'll see what comes from the table, because I can always file another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u191	Well, that's an excellent way of doing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u192	At the request of Mrs Voortman, I propose her motion (34762, No. 21). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u193	Thank you. On the motion in part No. 22 there is a similar discussion, but perhaps between Mr Nijboer and me. It invites the government to extend the duration of the energy saving loan. He said: I would like to hold the motion or otherwise do something about it when the Minister is clear about the commitment. My commitment saw that this was part of the discussion with the National Energy Savings Fund. The results are not yet available. It depends on that. I am, of course, willing to come back to the Chamber with what has come out of it. Then perhaps Mr Nijboer would like to continue his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u194	Then I will take this motion because if anything else comes out, then I can put her to the vote and if it is in line with the motion, then we do not have to vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u195	Well, very nice. Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u196	At the request of Mr Nijboer, I propose his motion (34762, No. 22), as last amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of 19 December 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to selfemployed persons and to members of That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u197	Yes. And then I also have the motion in part No. 24.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u198	And the motion in part No. 24. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u199	In the motion in part No. 23 Mr Kops calls on the government to stop the energy transition. The cabinet is not prepared to do that, precisely because the energy transition must ensure that the energy bill goes down. So I'd like to dissuade this motion. The motion in part No. 24 is Mrs Van Eijs' motion, which was also tabled by Mr Ronnes. This is what part of the debate was about: how can you build in the good financial incentive? The motion calls on the government to examine a number of points in this area. I think I have already made it clear in the debate that we would like to do so and see it as part of the climate agreement. For that reason, I shall leave the vote on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u200	The motion in part No. 24 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u201	I've asked the question before; you see him coming. The first operative part: I understand that. The reaction to the second operative part of the document I came to with Mrs Van Eijs The Minister says it is difficult to intervene in a rental price agreed by tenant and landlord in freedom: freedom of contract. I understand the minister is going to look at incentives in the ozb.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u202	I would like to say, in general, that it is sensible to say that I think that Mr Koerhuis agrees with me on how things are now set up and what incentives there are that, given the current circumstances, the current ambitions in terms of sustainability and the new conditions surrounding the energy tax, might have to be changed. So I'd like to fly this pretty wide. That's what the motion says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u203	Is that a "no" on the ozb?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u204	I say I want to fly it wide. That does indeed mean a 'no' to Mr Koerhuis's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u205	If I understand correctly, the Minister said that the energy bill should go down through the energy transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u206	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u207	Completely the opposite is the case. Minister Wiebes has indicated that the energy transition will cost between 7 and 21 billion euros per year. In 2030, households will pay between €600 and €720 extra through climate action and the energy transition. What does the Minister mean by the phrase "through the energy transition the costs go down"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u208	Much of the debate was about sustainability as part of the energy transition. The sustainability of the energy bill for households will decrease. I agree with Mr Kops that energy transition investment, including substantial investment, is necessary. A choice has also been made for greening on the one hand, i.e. increasing the tax on it versus reducing other taxes, for example on labour. I agree with Mr Kops. But on balance, people who will soon be in a more sustainable home will have a lower energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u209	Mr. Kops, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u210	A brief conclusion is therefore that citizens are now being squeezed from all sides. People literally sit in the dark, can't afford it all and are thrown into a financial abyss...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u211	Mr. Kops, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u212	... but in 30 or 40 years they'll get a tenner back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u213	No, that's not my conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u214	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-8.u215	The motions that have been tabled for this debate will be put to the vote on Tuesday.
