ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on tax collection problems. I welcome the Secretary of State for Finance and give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA. Speaking time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've had an extensive AO and I'm passing the points. At the donation and inheritance tax, where 450 million did not come in last year, we received additional answers yesterday to the question when this became clear. In mid-October, the official summit knew what was going on and on November 4th, a letter was sent to the Chamber with the full revision of the financial policy for the new cabinet, in which nothing was reported. So the same officials who know what's going on, top finance officials, also write that starter letter that says nothing. Why and how am I supposed to explain this about the management information that is available? This is serious, because things were too long and did not become known politically. However, it is clear to the Secretary of State that no notes have been sent to the directors of the previous cabinet. Should I read that in such a way that they have not been informed about these problems? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the feasibility of the fiscal measures of the coalition agreement. To my parliamentary questions last May, the Secretary of State replied that at that time he had no specific reason to believe that there could be no action under the government agreement. It is now June, and on Monday one could read in the Volkskrant that there may be measures that can only be introduced later. The Secretary of State then nuanced this in the letter. Thank you for that. Can the Secretary of State inform the Chamber as soon as possible when it is clear that certain measures can only enter into force later? Can he also comment on the report that fewer book checks were carried out last year, which also made it possible to recover less? Those were quite numbers: thousands of book checks less, and this Chamber has been calling for book checks for years. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the control of the Tax Administration, the CDA Group wishes to be consistently and more frequently informed about the main problems in the Tax Administration. These are ICT, staff and recruitment, continuity risk and management information. Short and comparable information, with facts and explanations. What we call it, I do not think that is so relevant, but I would like to have the debate with the Secretary of State on how we are going to do it. I see there are questions already, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u3	Yes. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u4	Since June 2016, Mr Omtzigt has repeatedly argued in the Chamber and also in the media for the Tax Administration as a major project. When Secretary of State Wiebes had his last debate, he said: afterward we should have done the same. Then Mr Omtzigt also said: yes, we should have done so. So the big question now is: why is the CDA no longer in favour of this today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr Nijboer may be a little more careful. We have advocated the Investment Agenda as a major project. The Investment Agenda of the last State Secretary, Secretary of State Wiebes, was defined. There was a separate budget for that, although it was unclear whether that was 1 or 2 billion, and that was about a number of separate projects. This Secretary of State has put these projects in the Tax Office. If you make a big project out of that, you get a big project that includes the whole of the Tax Administration, which, in the eyes of the CDA Group, leads to a very large stream of information. That's why we prefer to focus on three issues: ICT, staff and recruitment, because you know that the wrong people have left and that we don't have enough people at the moment, as well as management information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u6	Second question, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u7	In a large project, you can define exactly what you want. So that would fit perfectly within a large project, because that is about providing the Chamber with information on major matters that the Cabinet is working on. That meets all the criteria of a major project. I would ask Mr Omtzig once again. If you look at the Investment Agenda, which is still there, what is there after all these years since 2016 when the 700 million is gone and the service in its joints squeaks and cracks so much better in that area that he felt he had to and that he doesn't think so anymore today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u8	I want independent and tested information. It's been missing over the past few years. The first information I think the government should provide is the information in the form of the Audit Service's reports on every report that comes here. So that's independent information. I think that's helpful to the Chamber, and I think the tax authorities have some of those findings. Two. I ask the Secretary of State: why haven't we seen BIT reports yet? There are now two on the way, but the rules are clear: every ICT investment above 5 million needs a BIT report. Three. ICT investment takes place in all areas of the Tax Administration. That's what we saw in that briefing that state leaked. And I want to keep an eye on this ICT case, but that doesn't mean I want to follow the rest of those departments every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u9	We've got the 21st half report. That means that all the information about the entire Tax Administration has been for ten years, ten years! We have had six-monthly reports on us and that information has been hidden from us for so long, because that of the book research was already in here, and that we are actually not systematically and not thoroughly informed about this by the Secretary of State. What confidence does Mr Omtzig have in the fact that he has done so over the past ten years with his request for information, and that is where this is where the resultant report from Mr Omtzig is now going to work out? Shouldn't you just say, given the ten years we've had and the problems that there are: we're making it a big project, because then we're at the helm in terms of the kind of information we want...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u11	...and when we want it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u12	We probably go over to three times a year. If we can say very precisely what information we want and make agreements about it, I have the confidence that this Secretary of State will deliver it. For example, it cannot be the case that tables on the number of FTEs that used to be in the half-yearly reports are not included now, in times of change in the number of FTEs. From the first half-yearly report we received from him I was not very impressed. I'll tell you the truth. The problem of donation and inheritance taxes was also reported too late. But I see the letters getting better in recent weeks so that I think we will be consistently informed about them. Two. The Audit Service Empire is independent. An assurance of that has shown in those reports that the pain points can be properly overcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u13	On 24 August 2016, Mr Omtzigt will be on the website of the CDA: "It has to be a big project. We haven't decided on it in the past, but let's do it now, because we have to check it out." During the debate on 3 November 2016, Mr Omtzigt said that he was determined to do so. And on 24 October 2017, in the last debate with Mr Wiebes, he said again: "It must be a big project." What's changed now? In the debate in preparation for this debate, Mr Omtzigt demanded information from this State Secretary which he had not received! Last night we did get it. I'm going into my term of office on how incredible that issue is. But how can you say now: we're putting the information and what the Chamber gets in the hands of the same ministry? Why don't you just say, "We're gonna take care of that ourselves?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u15	You're gonna say, "We're gonna make this a big project," right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u16	I proposed at the time that the PvdA did not agree to turn it into a major project because at that time there was a large investment agenda, a large Investment Agenda which was also separate. I'm looking for a way to check what we want from the IRS. The IRS is the largest service in the Empire. More than 35,000 people are employed. If you turn all those parts into a big project, I think you're getting so much information that you don't get exactly the information you want. That is why the specific request in these three areas, i.e. the area of recruitment and selection, in which it has gone wrong with the outflow scheme and there is still a mismatch of more than 2,000 people, in the area of management information provision and, of course, in the area of ICT.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mrs. Leijten, a third question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u18	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I find this incredibly unbelievable. We have an instrument as a Chamber and as representatives of the people to determine what points we get information about and when. We give an order to the Audit Service of the Empire. We determine the questions and what to investigate. We have the reins in our hands when it comes to what information we get. We are no longer leaving that to a ministry that has been burdening us with thick reports for ten years, but has not informed us systematically and thoroughly enough. If, as a representative of the people, you can make a difference, I do not understand why Mr Omtzigt is right back here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u19	I note that Mrs Leijten does not even go into the argument about the information she wants. In this respect, I would like to make it very clear what information we do and what information we do not want from the Tax Administration. That's exactly what we're doing to make it controllable. There is much to blame for what has happened in recent years, but not for the amount of letters and information we have received from the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mrs. Leijten just sat down when you provoked her. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u21	We've been working on that big project for a while. We have discussed it in general. We even discussed it at an additional procedural meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u22	That is where you have already made this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u23	Everyone has said that it is also important for the three subjects that Mr Omtzigt considers important. We can take control of the reins. Then let's not leave it to the Ministry that hasn't been systematically informing us for ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u24	I'm going to see Mr. Edgar Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u25	Mr President, I just heard the PvdA say that it wants to define the entire Tax Administration as a major project. I'm just gonna give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u26	I hear Mr Nijboer shouting "nonsense." You may respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u27	I was just accused of wanting to. So bring it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u28	I thought: I'm gonna let it go, but it's already been said that the PvdA doesn't support this. There has never been a motion or a proposal from Mr Omtzigt. He only barked, but never bit. At that time, we outlined pros and cons. That is what I said in the debate. In the end, we have now come to the view that it is necessary. Secondly, I have just said, in an interruption, that you can very well define a major project. Our official support, or the former BOR, has made an analysis of this. You can only do ICT, or other parts. That's all there is to talk about. Given the seriousness of the problems, the PvdA believes that this should be done now. Mr Omtzigt only concludes a little. That's okay, but that's more to cover up his own retreat than to seriously go into the PvdA's arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u29	For the record, there was a motion Ronnes here. In addition, the PvdA indicated something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u30	Mr. Edgar Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u31	It just said "big project." So the fact...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u32	Mr. Edgar Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u33	No, Mr. Chairman. The fact that Mr Nijboer is dancing away from that is extraordinary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mr. Edgar Mulder. Finally, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's gonna take some effort. It is precisely within the big project that we can decide what information we want as a Lower House. That was one of the reasons why Mr Omtzigt was in 2016 for that big project. In 2016, Mr Omtzigt was still in opposition. I read in the FD yesterday that they called him the "opposition stallion." Now it's 2018. The problems have gotten much bigger. There's another opportunity to turn it into a big project. Mr Omtzigt is against it. I wonder with a lot of people how Mr Omtzigt feels in his role as a coalition gelding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u36	I'm fine. I would also like to ask you to see who requested this debate. I myself have been the applicant for this debate. With regard to the problems of inheritance and gift tax, I have heard the opposition less often than I have mentioned myself. I have put more questions to the House about this and asked more questions than all of you put together. If you think I would not be checking here, I would ask you if you once raised that 450 million problem that has occurred. I say that to Mr Edgar Mulder. The reproach here is that I wouldn't check now. We would not now be talking about the inheritance and gift tax if I had not put it on the agenda again and again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u37	I do not at all blame Mr Omtzigt for not asking and checking questions. The fact is that we can now do what he proposed in 2016. Then he was in the opposition. Things have only changed badly. Now there's the possibility again. When we had the opportunity to talk about it, he said: in retrospect, it was stupid. Those were his own words that we didn't go through with it at the time. Mr Wiebes said retroactively that it was wrong not to turn it into a major project at the time. Now the problems are even greater; it is becoming very acute in a number of areas. Mr Omtzig knows that as well as I do. Now we have the opportunity to ask as a Chamber exactly the information we need and now Mr Omtzigt does not give at home. Everyone will notice that, and that's why you're asking, and if necessary, you'll just say, "I'm not allowed by the other parties." But no one believes that you do that out of conviction, and that's why everyone here is taking you down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u38	I do not see Mr Mulder asking questions when something goes wrong. I would just like to point out that if we want information, we should simply get it as a Chamber, big project or not. It is quite a misconception here that the government only sends information to the Chamber in the event of a major project. It is not for nothing that we stand here for the fourth time because of the inheritance and gift tax and I ask these questions. I wonder when the PVV will finally do that. And not only when there is a plenary debate here asking for a major project, but also when there are concrete things going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u39	This is a very weak diversion. It's not about the heir and gift tax at all. This is part of the overall problem: the out of control departure scheme, the 75 million the PVV asked for. In the last AO I had a very long debate with the Secretary of State about 100 million he magics from somewhere, when he cannot say at the expense of what post that goes. So you don't come to me with one of those you-bowls. The fact is that there were problems in 2016 and you wanted to intervene by turning the service into a major project. You didn't do that at the time because there was a secretary of state who promised to come up with data. In retrospect, this Secretary of State says about the previous one that he did not properly inform the Chamber. You're not gonna make the same mistake for the second time, are you? For then you are not a ruin, but a different animal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u40	In 2016, the problems weren't big at all when I proposed a big project. Then there was a separate plan for an investment of 1.5 billion. I wanted to make a big project of it then and not the moment we found out that it had gone wrong. Now we start with a different trajectory. That route does not see a separate project within the Tax Administration and therefore I think it would be wise to follow the path I am now indicating.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u41	I see you all waving.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u42	But that's not correct. What do you mean there weren't any problems back then? More than 700,000 declarations were missing, we had the Bulgarian fraud. What do you mean there weren't any problems back then? I want to help you, too. The problems have not even started with this Secretary of State, but this is already the case with four Secretary of State in a row. At the time, with the third Secretary of State, it was also the reason you wanted a big project.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u43	The big project was then about the Investment Agenda. That was that beautiful report by Oliver Wyman, who came completely from outside and was not properly executed within the service by a totally failed departure scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u44	I always feel humble in this Chamber, especially when Mr Omtzigt speaks. That's because I appreciate the work he's doing. The assumption that this is more than we add up is something much, but Mr Omtzigt is asking a lot of questions and he is doing an excellent job. I just want to make the connection. Can Mr Omtzigt support the following proposal? We make it a major project and limit it to ICT, organisation, staff, recruitment and management information. Can Mr Omtzigt live with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u45	I have made another proposal here, and I think that is a better proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u46	How important does Mr Omtzig think it is to stick to his own proposal and to see that almost all opposition parties want something different? How important does he think that is? Does he then hold on to what he himself has invented or is he seeking the connection and, as a coalition party, does he do something with an outstretched hand towards the colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u47	I do not currently know any other ministries where we are going to ask for a report once every four months and send in the ADR. I do not know any other examples of previous governments where this was done by the parties that were in the coalition at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u48	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u49	I didn't ask the question about the ADR. I asked a very simple question. Do you think it is more important to stick to your own idea than to connect with the opposition parties who support the broader idea and thus respond to your concerns? We propose to turn it into a major project and then say to each other that it is limited to the ICT reports, that it is limited to staff, organisation and recruitment and that it is limited to management information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u50	I look forward to these matters with interest, but I also hope that the opposition parties will respond to the proposal we have put on the table, which I have just indicated I cannot remember in my time here that we have asked for such a frequent report from such a large part of the government. I don't see anyone going into that. I can't hear anyone deny it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u51	Mr Omtzigt always sprinkles a lot of documents, so I took a look. He was just talking about a motion he filed at the time. My thesis was: a large project was never submitted. Then he said, "The PvdA is lying." A motion has been tabled by Mr Ronnes/Omtzigt. It calls for quarterly reports to the Chamber. It's just been taken over, supported by the entire Chamber. But it wasn't a big project. That was my point. So I would ask Mr Omtzigt not to scream with the truth. He never suggested it. He suggested it, but he never filed the motion. The PvdA never voted against it. No one here in the Chamber voted against it. He has always spoken very loudly about this in the media and in the Chamber. Because he's coming back to that right now, he's being addressed like that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u52	I'll find out how that went back then. I suggested that at the procedural meeting. There was no support. If I had felt that support, I'd have gone through with it. In that respect, that is very clear. The Ronnes/Omtzig motion to which Mr Nijboer refers has been promised and, in all honesty, has not been carried out, because we have not had those quarterly reports in the end. That is what happened to the last Secretary of State to my regret.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u54	Mr President, I was not ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u55	That's right. You have 37 seconds left. You're welcome to finish. That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u56	More is needed in order to see how the tax authorities are going to proceed in the future. That is why I would ask the Secretary of State to put together a number of experts, both from the Tax Administration and from outside, to think structuralally and fundamentally about the future of the tax system and the Tax Administration. That is not something they will have to produce within a day or a week, but I would very much appreciate it if such a committee could look at the problems that may arise in terms of collection, simplification, surcharges and other structural proposals. Would the Secretary of State be prepared to submit such a proposal to the Chamber in, say, September? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Then I'm going to see Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u58	Mr. Chairman. The IRS cracks in its joints. This is serious, because the Tax Office ensures that we have the means to pay for our services, from the highway to home care, from democracy to municipal cleaning or garbage collection or whatever. I am surprised, though, I find it incredibly unbelievable about what I read in the reconstruction about the inheritance and gift tax. It is noted in September that it is not going well, that it is not being collected. It is not until the end of November that directors are informed. I have no reason not to believe what the Secretary of State tells us, but it's amazing that a service works like that. It is unbelievable that such a big problem, which will only be resolved in 2019 and 2020, will be left to its own devices, even at a time when there is a formation, a start note is made, there are General Financial Reviews, there is even a debate on the Tax Administration, and it is not known. I think it's incredible. Mr. Chairman. The book research that is now being done less affects payment morals. I would like to know from the Secretary of State in general consultation I have also brought it up when this is resolved. The compensation of 100 million is certainly to be found in the increase in the dividend tax, so I ask the Secretary of State not to abolish it until all the collection problems have been resolved. In fact, we should not do that at all; we know what we think about it. Every six months we get a big report, so we know a lot, but not everything. The Secretary of State says that the Chamber has not been thoroughly and systematically informed. That is why it would be good if we took control of the reins ourselves through a large project. But I would also like to refer the following to the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the way in which the tax administration has been reported in the past was not thorough and systematic enough to get a serious insight into the problems as a Chamber;]] [[considers that the future information position of the Court should no longer be at stake;]] [[expresses regret that in the past there has not been a thorough and systematic report on the problems within the Tax Administration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-411]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u59	And then there's the next thing...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u60	I usually make motions because I want to change something in the future. This is a motion to express regret about the past. Could Mrs Leijten, who de facto said in the debate that she would still like to put forward a motion of censure against the predecessor of the Secretary of State, give any further indication of her motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u61	I said in the debate that the Chamber, including the SP, was too kind to Wiebes. This is especially true when we see what has been rolled out of the closet with the inheritance and gift tax and when we look at the book research and the business of the Tax Office at the Ministry there was insight into what was going on with this service. That's a lead burden for the current Secretary of State. For ten years, we have received a great deal of information, and it is 21 half-yearly reports, which, however, was not thorough and systematic. We in the Chamber now want to say that this must not happen again. I am not going to table a motion of censure against the Secretary of State because, as I said in the AO, he still has the confidence. But it's a warning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u62	I don't understand the latter. This motion is all saying things about the past. If Mrs Leijten had tabled a motion four years ago because she was dissatisfied with the reports, we could have voted on them. Am I to understand that this motion is a motion of censure against the predecessor of the Secretary of State? Is that what the motion means? Then I just know what I'm voting on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u63	No, the motion regrets that we have not been thoroughly and systematically informed in the past. That's the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u64	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u65	Speaking of the past, my predecessor, Mr Bashir, has regularly tabled motions, for example not to start with the Tax Administration a redundancy scheme before they actually had less work there. If only the Chamber had voted for that. If only we had done that then. That would have been very sensible. The agenda also included a report from the Committee of Inquiry on the ruling policy, the tax deals with large companies. In that report, scientists advise to ensure that the facts and circumstances are better understood in those rulings. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he's going to do this. In general terms, I asked him to do so, but I did not receive an answer. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Committee of Inquiry recommends APAs and ATRs to improve transparency around the ruling policy by explicating facts and circumstances of an issued ruling;]] [[Calls on the Government to work out how to better understand the facts and circumstances of a ruling when reporting on the ruling policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-412]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mr. Chairman. I do not do it often, but today I would like to devote some of my already very short speaking time to a letter from a former member of the Tax Office. The letter is dated Saturday, June 16. "Dear Mr Van Rooijen. I have noted with pleasure, but also with sadness, your contribution to the increasingly worrying situation at the Tax Office. Sad because my former employer, the Tax Office, where I have been allowed to work for almost 30 years as a controlling official and former chief accountant, has sunk so far away in the swamp. I therefore wholeheartedly endorse your speech in order to put more energy into book research. In 2003, fifteen years ago, the reorganisation of the service started at that time went wrong. The three pillars, Large Enterprises, Enterprises and Individuals, were thrown into one heap. This to the great annoyance of the staff. The problems that were encountered at Enterprise were on everyone's plate and so the whole service got into trouble. When the managers............................................................................................................................................................................................... Almost all my colleagues were used for this horizontal supervision, because that was big business and that was what they wanted to see in the lists." We know from Wiebes that he loved it; that's a remark from me. "In itself, I had nothing against horizontal supervision, but I think that only works where there is sufficient separation between ownership and business operations, especially with large companies. The last few years of my workable life, I was almost the only one who was still conducting book surveys." It's as clear as anyone can say it, and I certainly can't. It has just been noted that fewer and fewer book surveys are taking place. There will soon be someone who will literally take out the light of the book surveys. In addition to what we said about revitalizing the phenomenon of book surveys, we asked the following central question. In the coming years, do we want the Tax Administration to concentrate on some major incidents, as has happened again in recent weeks? Or do we really want the Tax Administration to be able to concentrate on the great priorities of the Secretary of State, which he has recently and rightly set out well in our opinion? There's a field of tension. But as MPs, we really need to look at ourselves. That can't just be rhetoric. If we don't let the right interests prevail now, it could be extremely penny wise, pound foolish. The only thing that matters now is a Tax Administration that can do its job and do it in an enforceable manner, given the legislation. Yes, I said before: the Prime Minister has been there for eight years and looks at it with a distant attitude. It's really chefsache now. Locking up. My group wants an action to follow which shows that it is serious with the focus and concentration that we wholeheartedly support with the Secretary of State. The workload at the Ministry of Finance has more often led to the call for an additional executive. It is always economical and scarcely occupied there. There are departments with three rulers and sometimes even two ministers. Now the situation, for example in ICT, is very critical. Therefore, the next motion, which is explicitly not intended as a criticism of this Secretary of State, but precisely as a support for this lone cyclist, Secretary of State Snel, whose recent criticism of his predecessor was clearly not gentle. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to appoint a second State Secretary for Finance, one of whom is solely responsible for the Tax Administration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-413]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make three more points. First of all, there was the news this morning from CNV Public Case at BNR that fewer and fewer checks are being carried out. We knew that already... but even that checks that are necessary are no longer done by the Tax Administration. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Is that right? The second point concerns ICT, which is a major concern. De Volkskrant wrote a big article about this. We have had a reaction from the Secretary of State. He actually said: it's not that bad with the ICT. I found that worrying. Within the ETM, the digital system, everything would be possible, but the PvdA Group is deeply concerned about the fact that new proposals are not even being implemented or are being implemented in any other way now because ICT is not working. The third point is the reorganisation that is going on. We have already drawn attention to this in general consultation. More than 400 million in savings have been made from the Tax Office. A work package reduction of 5,200 fte is still to be achieved. Of course, the IRS is gonna work differently. But we do not think that such a cut in the state in which the Tax Administration is now in is wise. You should say, "That's what we're gonna stop. We're gonna stop that until things get back to normal. The pressure's big enough as it is. The number of checks is already decreasing. Now stop doing that." That is also the appeal I will make in such a way in a motion. Finally. There are advantages and disadvantages to a major project. As a chamber, we've been talking about that extensively since 2016. As the Chamber has been asking for this for four and a half years, the reports differ time and time again and it is not made clear enough, the PvdA Group ultimately feels that the situation of the Tax Administration has not improved and is also deteriorating in some respects. We just threw 700 million over the bar with that departure plan, causing damage. We believe that, in the long term, you should say as a parliament: we now define how we want to have the information of the Secretary of State, of the Cabinet. This is so big, so important. It's about a vital public function. Without tax collection, we can no longer afford our collective provisions, so we as a parliament must do so now in the form of a major project. We have all thoughtfully formulated them as Chambers. That's the way we have to deal with that. You can, of course, argue about how to do that. This is about ICT, the reorganisation, the management information and other things that can emerge from it. But in the end I have become a firm supporter of this and so have my group. I'll file the motion. I'll be right in time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Tax Administration is a crucial function of our society and is under great pressure;]] [[Whereas there is still a reorganisation under way with a so-called "work package reduction" of 5,200;]] [[Whereas several reports such as those of the General Court and Berenschot note that this is not feasible, not feasible or not feasible in time;]] [[Whereas continuing to cut more than EUR 400 million puts too much pressure on Tax Office staff;]] [[calls on the government to stop the cuts in the tax administration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. file/31066]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u69	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u70	Murphy's law says anything that can go wrong will go wrong. Within the IRS, this Mr. Murphy is considered an incorrigible optimist. I'm trying to start a little cheerful, but the IRS is one big drama, with or without an Investment Agenda. From the very first moment the Tax Administration starts renewing the ICT systems, things are going wrong, but they are also wrong. And it's gonna go wrong until today. Four Secretary of State in a row can't manage or solve the problems. From losing hundreds of thousands of declarations, through the terrible Bulgarian fraud, to a completely failed exit scheme. The current Secretary of State has already admitted some mistakes. So the problems aren't getting any worse. And it gets worse. In 2015, the General Court said that Parliament "should take into account in the coming years that major changes in tax legislation are not possible." This prediction has already been made, because a simple adjustment in the tax on diesel cars was not possible and the repair of the tax unit at the door would not be feasible. Now in 2018 it is even warned that collecting taxes is at risk. What if this prophecy comes true, too? What if the sales tax and payroll tax departments quit? That must not be allowed to happen. The fact that something like this is being warned in the Netherlands is already crazy. And since it can't happen, the Chamber has to go through now. The Investment Agenda of the Tax Administration must become a major project. Fortunately, the PVV is not alone in this. Most of the parties in this house support us because we as the Lower House can ensure that we get information on time. Then it is also possible that we as a Chamber can follow what happens to the money within the service. Whether it's the 700 million from the departure scheme, the 450 million from the inheritance and gift tax, the 75 million from the outgoing cabinet, the 500 million from the government agreement above 2.3 billion, the 100 million from April 2018 and now again the announced 123 million in the spring note, the Chamber gets or doesn't get information or gets it late. The Secretary of State also admits this and notes that it has just been said that his predecessor, Mr Wiebes, has not informed the Chamber in depth and systematically enough, although this was promised. That was probably because in 2016 this Chamber also wanted to turn it into a big project. In retrospect, therefore, this Chamber was silenced with false promises. That is not going to happen again today, or Tuesday at the votes, is it? That is why we are bringing the motion held out of Tony van Dijck's debate on accountability. with piece No. 8 (34950) in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u71	Thank you very much, Mr Edgar Mulder. Then I will go to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u72	Mr. Chairman. I started the general consultation with the determination that the Tax Administration is carrying out a core task of the government: collecting taxes and implementing tax legislation. It is also a pillar under our democracy. This is not just about tax morality, that people must have confidence that tax legislation is being implemented fairly and properly. It is also about trust in our democracy. I also said at the time that this is not only a responsibility for the government or for the Secretary of State, but also for us as a Chamber. It is a joint responsibility of opposition, coalition, left and right to ensure that the Tax Administration is better functioning and modernised. My signature is also under the PVV motion, because my group believes that making a major project can contribute to that joint responsibility that Chamber and Cabinet have to modernise the Tax Administration. However, I have always felt that this should be clearly defined and well defined. This is without prejudice to the fact that, in any event, the provision of information to the Court must be structured in a different way. The Secretary of State wrote a letter at our request, just before our procedural meeting, in which he gives some sort of index of what he would like to do in the annual plan and the annual report. I think that's a good start. I think we should talk to the Chamber about whether there are additions to that. In any case, I have two points which I would like to draw attention to. The first is that the table of contents of the annual plan now starts with the budget, and I would also like to know very specifically what the annual targets are. If you define the objectives well, we can also check at the end what actually happened. That is precisely why I like the design of the annual plan and the annual report. The second is that I would also like to focus not only on the risks of collection and the risks of control and implementation, but also on policy and political risks. I have drawn attention to this before, but I would like to continue to monitor this explicitly, especially in view of the article in the Volkskrant and the letter from the Secretary of State. I understand the Secretary of State is reassuring when it comes to the digital system. We can still change rates. We can introduce exemptions. So much is still possible. But there are also a number of new policy proposals and plans, not just in the coalition agreement. I am thinking of the CO tax, the flight tax and the climate tables. They can produce all kinds of new policy proposals and ideas. Then it is important that we know very quickly and well whether they are feasible. Because citizens, people, are frustrated about the functioning of the Tax Administration, but that also applies to us as politicians, who want to make tax laws. We are getting a little politically out of hand if we want to take initiatives but can't take them anymore, because the Tax Administration can't carry them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u73	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u74	Mr President, thank you. Sometimes I hear very nice quotes. One is the following: "Constructive frustration is the whip of progress." This is what Mr Wiebes said in his last consultation with the Finance Committee. And he said a lot more. He said, "Projects went wrong right after the beginning." And he said, "The opposite of what we had shared happened. We are now driving out of the dead end path and we occasionally hit a pole. There are serious problems with the primary processes. The supporting processes have failed through the ice. The departure schedule was dramatic. The own budgetary accountability was insufficient." Mr. Chairman. We're eight months away, but I'm still seeing the same picture, and unfortunately I don't see any progress. Once upon a time, the Tax Administration was the flagship of the government organization. At present, this service seems like a crippled worry child. The ICT organisation is in decline and can not even handle existing charging processes, and the control has been derailed. Unfortunately, this analysis by Professor Leo Stevens touches the core of the problems of this largest state service with 30,000 employees. Mr Snel has the responsibility to get this unhindered oil tanker back on track and not sink, like the Titanic, especially now that the Rutte government agreement contains 45 new changes in tax legislation. We are very concerned about that. Can the IRS handle all this? Or is the coalition agreement going to be a new poison cup for the IRS? We talked earlier about the donation and inheritance tax, and a bit wider about the Enterprise Tax Management system, which would be obsolete by now. Is it true that this could lead to problems with the collection of the dividend tax? After all, it continues until 31 December 2019 in the government's plans. Is it also true that the ETM is used for the insurance tax, the waste tax and the transfer tax, I ask the Secretary of State? Is it true that there can no longer be any changes and that effective control and enforcement is not possible? And is DENK's assumption that ETM will collect around 17 billion euros, which is now at risk? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Even more dramatic is that during a technical briefing from the service it would have been said that the collection of wages and turnover tax would also be at risk. Then we talk about EUR 140 billion. 56% of the 900 ICT applications have changed. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that the collection is not in danger? Is he willing to tie his political fate to this? Is he prepared to immediately inform the Chamber, which is not a detective agency, fully and without any restraint if the tax collection is in progress? What we shouldn't want is for this state ship to sink like the Titanic. I'd like another comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u75	I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is clear that the Tax Administration, and this Secretary of State, is facing a very big task. A change path has been deployed, and I think that was really necessary. The idea was good, but it was too much, too fast, and too much and too fast at the same time. That is why I think it is sensible that the Secretary of State should now take a different approach, an approach of controlled renewal, one step at a time. The focus is on three main areas: ICT, staffing and recruitment, and steering and management information. It appears that the challenges there are great. The departure scheme, which has been widely mentioned and deplored here, has only increased the challenge. For example, how the information provided to the Secretary of State and the management of risks with the inheritance and gift tax have gone, shows that the leak is really not up yet. Mr. Chairman. So I support the Secretary of State in his approach to reinvigorating more controlledly. I would like to add a fourth topic to his sad ICT, staff and steering, namely that we really need to look at the feasibility of arrangements. The Secretary of State is going to take execution tests even more seriously than before. I think that's a good idea. But we, too, have the task of continuing to consider the feasibility of regulations and the future of the tax system. The coalition agreement contains a lot of reforms, but not a real reform of the system. But it would be a good thing if we didn't stop thinking about it. I have said this before, for example as regards the surcharges. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if in the autumn, around Prinsjesdag, for example, he can make a proposal for the way in which he wants to shape that thinking. This must also be done with a good eye to practice, because then we can also see how we can make it work in future cabinet periods. Mr. Chairman. I also welcome the clarification that the government agreement measures are currently enforceable and that he has already informed the Court of Justice about them, which is not the case. I have to think about the measures on soot and diesels that came by earlier. But the execution tests will also be carried out this summer. Mr. Chairman. I come to the information to the Chamber. Mrs Lodders will shortly be making a motion on my party's behalf, in which we really seek to join the Secretary of State's offer. The Chamber needs to be better informed. The Secretary of State said so himself. Informing three times a year, based on an annual plan, seems wise to me. Then we can very well see not only the actions, but also the progress, the risk management and, of course, the results. And yes, tested and independent. This should not only be done by testing the BIT, as Mr Omtzigt said in the AO ICT. There must also be a major role for the ADR. The Secretary of State has indicated that he would like to have a broad discussion with the Chamber on this matter. I look forward to that conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u77	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Finally... Oh, Mrs. Leijten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u78	The proposal made by the Secretary of State concerns what the Secretary of State intends to do and the implementation of it. It's all very nice to get reports or reports about this, but does D66 also think that the Chamber should be informed if the collection of certain taxes falls silent, if there is an ICT crash or if there are problems with the GDPR regulation, about privacy? We're reading things like that in the papers now, but they're coming to the Chamber way too late. Does D66 think that we should also be informed about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u79	Every organization and every governor is entitled: if there are major developments that are relevant to us, then we need to hear it. By the way, in the case of inheritance and gift tax, for example, one of the lessons was that the direction is still not so well organized, so the Secretary of State and the Minister also heard it too late. It is common practice for us to be proactively informed. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u80	You may make one comment, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u81	The latter, 'I ask for confirmation from the Secretary of State', is a good comment from Mr Van Weyenberg. That is precisely not what I saw in the Secretary of State's proposal. That concerns me, given the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u82	One sentence about that. The Secretary of State's proposal is about how we are going to follow the process of change and ensure that the service can simply go back in the direction of achieving results. This is no longer the case in a large separate project, but according to an annual planning cycle. Apart from that, I expect directors to inform us about relevant activities. The same applies to this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u83	I have another question following Mr Van Weyenberg's comment on feasibility. He talked about big legislation in the autumn. He says that we need to look carefully at what can be improved in the future, including in the area of legislation and the like. It called for a structural vision of the future of tax legislation and the Tax Administration. You're asking if we can get a big report in September on how the Secretary of State thinks we're going to solve certain things. I was talking about a lonely cyclist. We are always going to ask for things he has to do in the coming months with a view to the distant future. My question was above all to ensure that the Tax Administration gets its act together quickly and that a second ruler arrives, who can give that lonely cyclist a big push.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u84	I believe that today, and as far as I am concerned, the next few days and weeks, we are going, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to ensure that we are able to carry out our monitoring task and that we are given the necessary information. The Secretary of State has my full support in the very difficult task he and the service stand for. I'm not convinced of the added value. Mr Van Rooijen knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u85	We have had a great deal of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u86	I do think that thinking about the future is relevant. The Secretary of State doesn't have to do that himself. But let us really make sure that this thinking does not stand still. It is not just a matter of introducing tomorrow, but also of taking the thinking forward by outsiders, also to subsequent periods.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u87	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u88	Mr. Chairman. A good ICT environment is crucial. The tax authorities are at the point of collecting 1 billion euros each working day, and if the systems fail, the collection is at stake. That is how I started our debate last week, and I think this is indicative of the problems we face. I believe that we must now deal with the problems. That's where the priority is. However, as a number of colleagues have pointed out, thinking about the future should certainly not stop. The Secretary of State has said something about this, and I hope he will take that up again in his reply. Mr. Chairman. Last Monday's article in the Volkskrant addressed the problems at the Tax Administration, especially ICT. In his letter, the Secretary of State renounces the fact that the contracts would not be renewed. He has drawn a different picture and mentioned the deadline of early October. I assume that the Chamber will be informed at the beginning of October, or so much sooner or later than is necessary, about what is going on, because that is crucial. The debate we had last week was mainly about the provision of information. There have been a lot of exchanges, there have been a lot of interrupting debates, and here too it is central. In response to the debate and also at the request of Mr Snels, the Secretary of State sent a letter and made a number of suggestions on the provision of information. It is important that we come together to what the Chamber needs. I see an important role for BIT in this, so that the Chamber is also informed about important ICT projects. I myself mentioned in the debate the five most important ones with perhaps the greatest problems. But I also see a role in this for the Audit Service Empire. In order to further elaborate on that, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Tax Administration has different, long-term implementation problems;]] [[noting that the government is "renewing control" in the process of a thorough reform process of the Tax Administration;]] [[whereas it is in the interest of both the Tax Administration itself and the Chamber that the Chamber should not be given too little information, but not too much information, so that the focus of the Tax Administration can be on the implementation of the reforms;]] [[calls on the Government, in close consultation with the Chamber, to establish a new structure for the provision of information to the Chamber, building on the Government's letter;]] [[calls on the Government to involve the Chamber in the definition and scope of the topics, such as staffing, management and ICT;]] [[invites the Government, by means of an annual plan, to inform the Chamber three times a year about the progress of reforms in the Tax Administration and the Audit Service (ADR), to ask the Court to carry out a review role,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Lodders, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-415]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u89	I was done, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u90	Mrs. Leijten, you really are through all your interruptions. I'm not gonna do it. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u91	I have a procedural comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u92	Mrs Leijten and procedural comments, I cannot imagine anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u93	Let's try.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u94	Well, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u95	There has been a motion of 74 Members for some time that will be put to the vote. We are talking about the implementation of this motion, which is a major project, and how do we intend to define it? We have had a wide-ranging debate. Now we get a motion that actually strikes a line through the other motion. May I ask you to ask a question on this matter to the person who has crossed the line?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u96	I think the question has already been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u97	It was a procedural question to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u98	Yes, ask your question and I will give Mrs Lodder the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u99	The question to the VVD, the CDA, D66 and the Christian Union is because this motion is from the coalition: why are you tabling a motion on something that has already been proposed in a letter? Do you do so in order to vote against a Mulder motion or do you do so because you still have brilliant ideas about the information you would like to have, but you do not really want to suggest it because it would seem like a big project?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u100	I believe that we have had an extensive discussion on a major project. I have also had a number of interruptions during the general consultation why or why not. During the debate I indicated that the instrument of a major project was actually much more central than the desire for information. This motion is intended for that purpose. I think it goes a little further than the letter from the Secretary of State in some areas and makes the request to involve the Chamber in the definition. I have just made a number of suggestions to Mr Snels. This motion is not comprehensive. I have mentioned three examples of what the scope could be. I think it is very important that this is also an invitation to all the other parties to think about this information, because we have all shown during the debate how big the pile of information is that we have not been able to achieve our priorities in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u101	Thank you. Then this was the deadline on the part of the Chamber, so there is no second term. This was a three-minute debate. I'll see if the Secretary of State needs a brief suspension or can respond immediately. I see he needs a brief ten-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u102	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have dealt with a number of important issues the last two times. They will be discussed again today, a little more condensed and also in the form of a number of motions, to which I will respond at the end. I have a number of blocks to which I would like to respond in response to today's debate and both times before that. Let me start with a section that has been discussed a great deal, and rightly so, namely the donation and inheritance tax. We've been talking back and forth in a number of sets about things that have gone wrong. The question put by a number of Members of Parliament, including Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Leijten today, was: how could that be? If we're gonna read this one more time, why did things go wrong? From the first time we talked about this, I immediately acknowledged that I also think that these things have not gone well, that the most important thing is that we try to learn from things that we did not have in order and that it takes too long for data on what is happening somewhere in the attack chain to be translated into estimates. So I actually share with the Chamber the inconvenience about what happened during that period. At the same time, I note that the Minister and I began to draw lessons from this from the moment I took that information. I would like to repeat this one more time, because it is important, because it was the actions that we set in motion afterwards. First of all, of course, better management through better information and risk management, which was not always there. We have a new top structure, in which people become fully responsible, not only for their personnel policy, but also for the underlying ICT. We have set up a board of directors' meeting, where the directors from within the department, where rams, legislators, execution and the financial column of our department and of the service come together. That was a really important set of measures. Secondly, I think it was a very important lesson for all of us and especially for the service: do not throw away old shoes before you have new ones. We've used that metaphor before. That is a truth like a cow, you would say, but that really requires a good and comprehensive understanding of the ICT landscape, which has not yet been sufficiently in order. As you know, your Chamber has been briefed on this in a technical briefing. We are well on our way to try all the applications out there... I have sometimes described application management as a Belgian city centre without architecture, where everyone does nothing. I'm sure they're all very nice houses, but when you see them together, it's not the ideal way to set up a system whose parts have to work together. That integral insight, also in how we get from this complicated puzzle to a simpler puzzle, is finally beginning to come. This is important in order not to repeat the mistakes of the past. Finally, this whole discussion also concerned people who, for example in relation to inheritance tax, are in an annoying situation and in personal insecurity. We have sent all these people an apology for the abuses and delays they have experienced due to our mistakes. We have also decided, for example, not to levy a tax rate. Quite a weed, you can say, but well, that was not arranged and we immediately decided to do so. In short, I've been trying to fully inform your Chamber about problems all this time. I did so in the 20th half-yearly report, in the various notes and in my response sets and until yesterday with some additional insights. So I understand, once again, very well the discussion we had. I was also pleased that this was requested by the Chamber, and I have tried to give as much explanation as possible each time and to learn the lessons that are absolutely necessary. If someone then asks whether these things were completely new or if they were more of a symptom, then I also say: in the Committee on Taxation, a culture has also been identified in which perhaps too long there was a can-domeality. As a result they thought: we may have a problem, but we can fix this, we can solve this. Bad Dutch, I'm sorry, but that's a bit of the can-domality that was described as such by the committee. For too long, perhaps that's a better formulation of "that things can be solved"; we don't want that anymore. In the meantime, a kind of incident report has been set up for myself. Then it's very small disruptions. 200 people who have had a letter too late, or if, for example, there would be something going on around the Tax Phone. That wasn't there yet. Of course, it was there at the level of the official summit, so to speak. Given the situation in which we find ourselves, I also found it really important that I signalled it. I'll get to that later. If signals are really important, I just want to share them with the Chamber, proactively, as requested. I'm happy to do that, and I keep doing that. For example, we knew a long time before the GDPR that we weren't going to make it. That's what we said in the six months report. It didn't take investigative journalism, we knew it. We weren't proud of it and we found it annoying. We explained to the Chamber how that happened. That indicates that I do not want to hide these elements, but simply want to share them with the Chamber, so that I can talk to her about them, especially with the idea that we are considering what we can do about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u104	Brief question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u105	It's a good thing there's an incident report to the Secretary of State, because he's responsible. It is really inexplicable that it has not come in the last ten years. But the question is, how does the Secretary of State weigh politically when the Chamber is informed? There are minor and major incidents. He says he wants to do everything transparent, but how much does he weigh? Is it a question of numbers, people involved or euros involved, or is it a question of the duration of the incident? How's he gonna weigh that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u106	I don't have an algorithm for that: at the next amount or with more than so many people it becomes important enough. This is indeed a real political change. There are things going wrong every day in the workplace with 30,000 people. They'll report this to their boss, if it's okay. He asks, "Can you fix this, can you fix it, how do you do it?" Eventually, up to a certain point something of a flow arises. I saw that in the past elements of ICT went wrong with the donation and inheritance tax, for example because people were not at part of the project because they were doing something about another incident. That wasn't in line, it wasn't in the chain, so the chain manager, the one who should have given the signal to the government or the political summit, didn't always know what was happening on the work floor. We've changed that now. We now have integral chain control. So I now expect the directors of the chains to weigh it at some point when things go wrong. It could be a very sensitive group or a very precious pair, maybe only of 100 people, but with a lot of money. There's a sensitive group, so I don't think I have some kind of joke here that I can say: if it meets this, I have to... No, I really think the manager should decide: this is really something that is not going well and I would like to report it. Then I have to share it with the Chamber the moment I think it's important enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u107	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u108	That's the point. I hope to reassure Mrs Leijten on this point that it is anything but something that it does not want to bring out. In the discussion we had, it was the following: if, despite 1060 pages of external reports, we somehow do not have the idea that Chamber and Cabinet share the right information with each other, it is not just the amount of reporting, but the quality and the story that comes with it. That's actually the point I've been wanting to make the whole time. I have done my best to focus the six-month reports by taking out the main points in the imposing letter and mentioning: these are probably the things that are really important to talk about. So I'm really trying to share it with you and not keep it away from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u109	The Secretary of State says the GDPR was in the six-month report. And he was. It was just a little smashed up. It starts with: "The Tax Administration is working on measures to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation. There are two tracks on this.' Only after a set of sharp parliamentary questions comes out that it just takes a year. Does the Secretary of State agree that the next time such a thing is communicated, just at the beginning of a letter or a half-yearly report can be reported: we have a problem? No one here in the Chamber is really surprised that in the coming years, the Tax Administration will come up with a couple more times with such a letter, no one at all. We'd be surprised if it didn't come. Is the Secretary of State prepared to say in the first sentence: we have a problem, it takes that long and this is about how we work on solutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u110	Absolutely. That is exactly my objective, especially around an GDPR that we all consider important. It concerns the right of privacy protection for citizens, which is an important issue. That's what we think. We're gonna put it on companies. I have tried, in every debate with you and, I know, in every six months' report I have sent to the Chamber, to make it clear from the outset that I am not going to hide anything. ETM, for example, is an important system. That system is still working. It is not that it is falling over now, but we already know that its flexibility is lower than we hope. I wanted to highlight this example because I think it is important and politically relevant. It is therefore absolutely my objective to share with you these kinds of problems, which can have a major impact not only on people's lives, but also on the income of the Empire, in good time. I'm not hiding anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u111	Second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u112	Thanks for that last sentence. Don't hide anything. It is not the objective, but sometimes the letters have been rewritten five times, so that the sharp information is getting further and further flattened, and we need to find out where it was. That's what lives here a little bit. My second question concerns what was said before. I asked two questions about the donation and inheritance tax. No memos were found from the previous Secretary of State and Minister. Can I assume that they are not informed at any time, not even in any other way? And two, how does the Secretary of State see that piece in the mid-October timeline, when the entire summit of the Tax Administration was informed, until mid-November, when the Secretary of State was finally informed, and especially the section of 4 November when the entire financial framework was presented to the Chamber? With in it: that's how we stand from the new cabinet, there are a lot of bodies falling out of the closet and there are all kinds of setbacks. But it is precisely the fact that the Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance had a significant setback that is not included in the cabinet's start note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u113	On the first question, yes. I can see everything and I have checked in the system whether there have been notes and whether there have been discussions on this far-reaching delay in the donation and inheritance tax with the budgetary consequences, but I have not found any memos, notes or other things. So the answer to that is yes. The second question is of course an interesting one. I can have all kinds of reflections about that, but the fact is that I didn't know until November 13. Why does this understanding of ICT problems not lead to the understanding that this might also have an impact on the estimation? In the end, that's the question. Because if that had already been clear, it could have been taken. I don't have the answer to that. I can give all kinds of explanations: it was a busy time, people didn't sit with the right people at the table. I can think of anything to fill in, but I don't know. I can't find that either. I can say, however, that I found the most important thing the whole time why I think that the system is not well built and why the chances of this type of accident happening are greater than necessary. That is exactly why we need to make some adjustments. You can really assume that I have raised this question with you, together with the Minister, on several occasions. I also think it should have been. I really think at that point someone should have made that call. That didn't happen. I can't take it back. All I can say is that the moment I found it, I went straight to work to see how we can prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u114	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u115	Am I moving on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u116	Second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u117	That is regrettable, but I would like to know more precisely from the Secretary of State how he intends to deal with this incident report. You can save everything to the reporting moments, but you can also say: I will send this directly to the Chamber. If the Chamber indicated what information it wanted and how it should be provided in a major project, we would be at the helm. But it is clear that we must not be at the wheel of the coalition. The Chamber actually makes itself a little lamb instead of lion. Can the Secretary of State inform me that, in the event of incidents on his desk that are large enough, he does not wait for another report, but says: I will send a note to the Chamber, I will report it immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u118	In itself, there is no resistance on my part to simply share things with the Chamber if they go wrong or don't seem good. I'm not gonna make any mistake about that. That's where we're on the same side. You could only ask yourself the following. At least I always do. At some point, I'm getting a report. It doesn't matter what it is. There's an incident. Something's going wrong somewhere. If I gave that to your Chamber the same afternoon, I think your Chamber will ask me: what are you going to do, Secretary of State? Then I say: I don't know yet, I haven't been able to verify it yet, I haven't been able to look, I haven't been able to see where it came from yet. There's always something about a moment of reflection. Of course, that also happened on 13 November when I knew it. The first thing I'm saying is, how can that be? Are you sure? There's all kinds of lights going on with me. That's what I want to know. In the end, I immediately, very soon afterwards, reported that to the Chamber, because it is quite something. So I agree with the background. Of course I'd like to talk about that. I have no interest whatsoever, I say, in keeping problems with me. It also helps me to tell you how complicated the situation is at times and how many problems we have. At the same time, we should not have the idea that something should go straight to the Chamber on the day that I know it, because the Chamber would rightly ask what I am going to do. I don't want to distance myself from it, but it's just for a moment to explain how things are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u119	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u120	Then I'll come to the report. There are some motions on that, too. I'll tell you more about that. I think this is important to indicate. It was seen, sometimes in the media and also in one or two interventions today, as if I wanted to give some sort of sweep out of the pan to my predecessor. I really didn't mean to. In the previous debate, I said that I looked back a year. I haven't been there for a whole year, but I've just looked at what kind of external reports go to the Chamber. So you can see more than 1,000 pages of external reports with the best will and good advice. They're coming to the room. Yet we all have the idea, and I shared that feeling with the Chamber, that sometimes we are still talking a bit along each other, because the management information that is in there is just too little direction. Sometimes it's input data when we prefer output data. Sometimes they are things that are relevant to tax compliance, but perhaps a little less from the perspective of the citizen. So I actually share the idea that, even if you have 1,000 pages, there can still be no structured and in-depth debate. This was mainly about the recognition that it was apparently difficult in recent years to get that information out of the service. That's what I said I recognized it. I myself had sometimes asked a question and then I got information that contained a very precise answer to my question, but not what I really wanted to know. We've talked about job vacancies before. Until not so long ago, there was no formational assigned to executives. I would just like to point out that it is indeed true that I said that this was not structured enough and in depth enough, but that was not a reproach to one or the other. That was a statement of the fact that it was apparently not good all these years. The most important thing in this respect is, of course, that I am taking steps now, because I think we can do this differently. It was in the letter I sent to you recently. I am still a little agnostic about a certain form or labeling, but I totally agree with the people who say that we should have a better debate about what I can give and what the Chamber wants information. So I wanted to focus on those three points that have been mentioned today: ICT, staff and steering, i.e. management, control, chain control, better separation of functions and that sort of thing. We have another step to take. I think it's important that I try to report on that progress. In this way, I try to meet the wishes of the Chamber and thus also to make this journey with your Chamber more structured, more in-depth and long-term, based on the same format, not least.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u121	Mr Van Rooijen. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u122	The Secretary of State says that he does not want to discuss his predecessor in a reproachful manner, about the provision of information. He explained that. My question is whether he would like to conclude with me, and thus possibly confirm, that in the past major errors have been made by the previous Secretary of State: the departure scheme, the whole ICT issue. I will not give any further examples. Quite apart from the question of whether these should be blames, we can see that there have been major mistakes that have led to the major problems, of which we know more and which take much longer to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u123	I don't really want to go with that rhetoric. I have just said that something is being said somewhere in the media and that I find that annoying. If you were to ask me specifically whether the departure scheme is a great success, my answer would be: I do not think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u124	Please continue. But first Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u125	This is a very short answer. I also mentioned ICT. We're allowed to speak freely in the Chamber, aren't we? We are only looking back at the way in which information was provided to the Chamber; it has not been good. The Secretary of State has said something about this, whether or not he blames it. I would now like to ask him about the issues of substance which have not gone well in the past and which have led to major problems. Can the Secretary of State agree with that, except that he says that the departure scheme does not deserve a price? That's not a real answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u126	The Secretary of State may briefly say something about this, not too long and contemplative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u127	I won't do it too long. I gave my analysis of the situation in my letter of April. In that letter I said that the direction of the adjustments was well chosen at the time, but that the multitude of simultaneously ongoing projects, at the desired pace, was not successful. In that letter I also said that we can achieve the same goal of a better functioning service, where people go to work proudly every day by taking a step back at the pace of the adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u128	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u129	Then I come to the question of what exactly is going on with these reports. I think it would be best to say a little more about this in the debate on the motion. Mr Snels thinks the direction is good, but he asks whether it could not be supplemented by a number of other elements that I think are quite good, including the idea of an annual plan. An annual plan isn't just good for the tax authorities. Whether you are a company, an institution or a government body, at the time you make plans, you must of course also set your policy objectives, indicate what resources you are going to use and how you are going to measure them. I really think this is important. I've called it the KPIs before. That's a bit of annoying abbreviation, but it's how you measure your success in what you want to do. The proposal of an annual plan which will be extended in a slightly different way by means of a motion is simply a good idea. This includes policy risks. A risk analysis for every project you do is also important. In my previous banking jobs, that was even more important, because there you need to know exactly what or how. I think we can use some of the elements I have learned there in the past very well if we want to analyse the way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u130	I'm getting a little cheerful from the Secretary of State's words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u131	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u132	It reminds me of the debate during the pre-consultation. I was just trying to make the point that every normal company prepares a project description in advance, with a budget attached to it. Against that background, I asked where the EUR 100 million came from. We debated this for a few minutes, but I still have no answer. I still think that, especially with all the misery within the Tax Administration, you should appoint projects in advance and formulate objectives...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u133	You already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u134	... and that you'll have a budget on it. In the rematch the question: the Secretary of State has an additional 100 million. He's getting it from somewhere...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u135	No, Mr. Mulder, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u136	What is the cost of these 100 million euros?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u137	I gave the same answer three times last time, namely that you cannot put it that way. You can't trade one for another. This goes through an additional post. A spending plan must be submitted for this purpose. Only when that spending plan has been approved can the money be spent. Since spending plans had not yet been submitted for the entire budget...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u138	I understand that this has been discussed extensively three times in a five to six-hour general consultation. I am very sorry, but this is a three-minute debate. I therefore propose that we keep it short. Mr Mulder may put a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u139	We've done that three times. I got the same answer three times. But now I am pleased to hear that there are the same principles: defining a project plan and objectives. If there was ever $100 million for anything, it was done for a particular purpose, for a project. That $100 million is now being taken somewhere else. Then where did it come from? That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u140	I think I've answered that now. I particularly welcome the support I have here from the PVV for my plan to shape the reporting as I have indicated in my letter. I assume, therefore, that Mr Mulder will give his opinion as soon as the motions are dealt with. I'll get back to the books. I believe that this subject was also raised in a newspaper this morning. This is, of course, a well-known theme. Of course, we write the enforcement letter, which is often about this. It must be incredibly clear that also for the State Secretary, book surveys are important and important instruments within the service's enforcement strategy. However, the additional use of book surveys without taking into account the intention of a taxpayer is not so effective. The Tax Administration therefore always chooses to use supervision appropriately. This means that you are not convenient if you have no prior supervision at all and only enforcement afterwards. So it's always a combination of what you do. In the combination we have chosen, there is sometimes a bit more prior supervision, to make sure that the taxpayer also fills it in properly. I agree with everyone that there is no point in saying that there will be no ex post controls. 'Cause you're gonna need it. That has to do with tax morals. A number of speakers have rightly pointed this out today. I agree, but it is a matter of balance. One must not be at the expense of the other. You need both. Practice shows that a mix of preventive and repressive is best when it comes to compliance with our tax legislation. In general, of course, if you end up with a shortage of staff, you will have it in terms of supervision and enforcement. In the end, we must choose the most effective and efficient combination.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u141	Last question, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u142	The Secretary of State spoke of either before or afterwards. Does he agree with me that you can't tell if a declaration made by an SME, for example, is good? This can only be established with a high degree of certainty by means of a book survey. You can't tell if a report itself is good or bad. It is about what lies behind it in facts, circumstances and considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u143	There, of course, Mr Van Rooijen has a point to make. However, if you can help in advance by explaining to an SME about how to fill in certain items, you are sure that you will get fewer errors afterwards. There are also rather complex arrangements for SMEs. But again: it is not one or the other, but a mix of both. We determine it every year. We're also doing a half-yearly report on the enforcement letter. There have been fewer book surveys this year. Despite this, there have been no less correction revenues than hoped or estimated. That was discussed this morning. The average correction yield per book survey has thus increased in the past year due to the more effective use. That's a little bit like the idea of this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u144	No, Mr. Van Rooijen. We have agreements about interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u145	I have a brief question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u146	No. That's not gonna happen. If I allow that to happen, I also see Mrs Leijten and Mr Mulder. I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u147	May I ask a procedural question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u148	No, no procedural questions. I'm not gonna let you do that. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u149	I asked two questions while I was allowed to ask three.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u150	No. You've already had it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u151	Perhaps I can help you by saying that I would like to discuss these choices in the enforcement strategy with your Chamber in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u152	No, Mr. Van Rooijen. Please continue. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u153	Then I'll come to some more specific questions before we get to the motions. Mr Omtzigt asked why no BIT reports had yet been received. There have now been two: on customs and on the inning. There's some BIT keys coming up. I think that's what the conversation was about. The overview of the ongoing and completed BIT keys is always posted on the website of the BIT itself. So there's still a few coming. Two have been completed. You can follow them there. In general, I understand very much the wish of the Chamber and Mr Omtzigt to involve BIT in this. We have come to know the BIT as very helpful. It's critical, but it knows what it wants. This applies not only to BIT, but also to other Gateway Reviews are really important elements. We're just gonna listen to that. There is no reluctance of us to include BIT in this. That doesn't even have to be according to a top five, as Mrs Lodder suggested. It's okay to do that from a set limit. For all projects above a certain amount we would like the advice of the BIT.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u154	Thank you for that last commitment. The border is 5 million. This means that from now on we will receive BIT advice for each project above 5 million. If that had been done in the past, we would also have had a BIT opinion on the new donation and inheritance tax, to give an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u155	Yeah, absolutely. We have no reservations about having BIT keys run. In fact, we think we'll end up getting better. Mr Omtzigt also asked to let us know when something is feasible or not. A further question was raised later, in my view by Mr Azarkan. We have also talked about this for quite a long time. We have the coalition agreement. In this we have generally weighed the measures. We think we know about how to do it. At the same time, we know that the world is not standing still and that these plans will eventually be transposed into legislation. Only when the legislation is there will you take an execution test. We really need a couple of weeks to do that. Mr Omtzigt is absolutely right: I am going to take it more seriously than ever before. We'll take it with us when we deal with the bill. The last time we had a discussion in the Chamber, for example, on the issue of fiscal unity. There's a plan, but the service says it's very difficult to do it so precisely. Then we come up with another set-up that is feasible for the service, but yet the policy objectives are largely or entirely fulfilled. That's important. I'm sure that could happen more often. I don't have any reason to say in advance that things are gonna go wrong somewhere. It's a lot, and we're gonna test it all. We think we can handle it, but I do not rule out the possibility that there will be a delay at some point when we take the feasibility test.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u156	I want the Secretary of State now...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u157	I'm as good as through. Maybe I should just head towards the motions. I think that all other elements are covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u158	No, Mr. Ommzigt. You also asked three questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u159	A question has not been raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u160	A question has not been raised, has not been answered. And what was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u161	A request to come forward with a proposal in September to a number of experts...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u162	Oh, yeah. I put it in the folder of motions, because I thought: I'm really gonna say something about this. That was indeed Mr Omtzigt's question. He's right. Later Mr Van Weyenberg asked for it more or less in the same direction. We're in trouble at the service right now. We can be very much on implementation, but many of these problems, of course, start with the complexity of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u163	The motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u164	Mr Omtzig asked whether it would not be wise to look also at the improvement of the tax system, because it would ultimately achieve simplification for the service. I couldn't agree more. This is one of my priorities, although it is not in relation to the major project test or at least the Tax Administration, but it is in relation to my fiscal policy agenda. Before that, this part was really important. In short, I would like to say, in full recognition of the story, that I think it would be wise to say in the autumn, as was asked, how I intend to shape it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u165	The motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u166	So I'd like to make this commitment here. The motions. The motion in part No. Mr Leijten spoke about the information position of the Chamber: he expressed regret. I was having second thoughts. I think it's up to the Chamber... At least, I was trying to read if it was meant to be in my direction. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u167	You may have an opinion, but it is indeed up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u168	I have tried today and also in recent times to explain why I believe that my plans lead to better information for the Chamber. I myself tend to look at the future a little more than look back. Even though this motion is not addressed to me, I think I would have advised her not to. The motion in part No. Article 412 of Member Leijten asks the Government to work out how it makes the facts and circumstances of a ruling clearer when reporting on the ruling policy. To this end, I believe that we have also said a number of times that it is really not possible for us to make statements and provide insights by individual ruling issued per company. For that reason, I advise against this motion. In general, I do support what is behind Mrs Leijten's report. As she knows, I have already ordered the ruling practice to review innovations and a redesign. That's not just an internal investigation. There are also outsiders involved in this. We then look at the content, process and also transparency. I hope that the questions that lie behind Mrs Leijten's motion can be dealt with in this evaluation, because I understand what she is asking for. Anyway, it's already in the investigation I announced. I advise against this motion because it is a ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u169	Mrs Leijten, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u170	Okay, first of all, let me make a comment. I do not think it is chic of the Secretary of State to give an opinion on a motion that is not a request to him. It is also crazy, because last week he said that the Chamber was not informed in depth and systematically. If the Chamber concludes anything from that statement, then it is crazy to dissuade it. Then the motion to part No. 412. The conclusions in the half-yearly report on the last page are as follows. That is the report of the independent committee of inquiry APA/ATR; I am sorry for the terminology. It simply says that transparency can be improved. I shortened that as the facts and circumstances in the issuing of the ruling. I would also like to read the whole passage, but I do not think the President wants to read it. But that's just a conclusion. That's just a fact. This has not been addressed in the questions raised about this report. This was not addressed in the debate last time. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State to come up with a proposal on how he's gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u171	That's...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u172	And I really don't understand why you're setting up an independent committee. He then gives an opinion. He's drawing a conclusion. I'm not talking about the disclosure of the rulings that I would eventually find the best, but just ask: how are you going to implement the conclusion of that committee? How could the Secretary of State not advise that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u173	I advise against the motion because it explicitly calls for clarification on a ruling. And I can't say that much about "one" rule in general; we've said that before. I think it is important that, in general terms, there should be greater clarity and transparency. That's what I said. I put in a plan for that. The plan is about what the Court of Auditors is going to do. The plan is about which rulings I have investigated myself. It's about the whole series of questions that's behind it. So in short, I'm already doing that. By the way, I have already indicated in the letter to the Chamber how I intend to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u174	There's no word "clearness" in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u175	No. You are free, Mrs Leijten, to put your motion to the vote. Eventually, it's up to the Chamber. I suggest you move to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u176	But what motion did he judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u177	The motion in part No. 412.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u178	Then where does it say "clearness"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u179	Mrs Leijten, first of all you have expressed your opinion on this. Two, of which the Secretary of State says "dissuade" for a number of reasons, which you disagree with, but you are free to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u180	Look, the Secretary of State is telling her off because I'd be talking about clarity. The word "clearness" does not appear in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u181	Thank you. I suggest that the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u182	Does the Secretary of State have the right motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u183	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u184	I shall continue, Mr President, with the Van Rooijen motion in part No. 413, which is actually being asked if I would like another colleague to join me in the Ministry of Finance. In itself, I thank Mr Van Rooijen for this innovative thought, although I think he has been suggested in a distant past. This cabinet has not chosen to do so. That was a good choice. Despite my sympathy for the thought behind it, I do not think it is useful because I believe the following when it comes to having legislation and implementation in one hand. Actually, that is also today's discussion: we can improve the implementation practice of the service, but we also need legislation for that. That's exactly why I don't think that's convenient. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u185	I see you standing, Mr. Van Rooijen, and I know this isn't the first motion on a State Secretary's Tax Office. Is that right? Oh, yeah? Really? I thought you had ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u186	This has been discussed with the Minister in the previous debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u187	You can ask one question and then it's really done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u188	Yeah, about the motion. The Secretary of State has understood that the motion for him is a support in the back. He has big legislation, not only in the Netherlands but also in Brussels, and he has a big problem with the Tax Office, and we want to help him. That is why I would like him to assess this motion in that light.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u189	Okay, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u190	I am sympathetic to the support I have received from Mr Van Rooijen, but I would nevertheless advise against the motion, for the reason I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u191	Then the motion to part No. 414.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u192	Yes. I also have to say that I find what is being called for or what is being considered sympathetic to support the staff of the Tax Office. That appeals to me very much. We often talk about things that go wrong. It is also important to point out that there is also political support for the work they do. So I expect a lot of sympathy, but at the same time I am afraid that Mr Nijboer knows that too. There's no cover in this motion. That's why I have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u193	Mr Nijboer, a short question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u194	I haven't asked a single question yet. I am glad that the Secretary of State is at least so positive about it. I would like to put two things to the contrary. If we turn it over to the CPB and invest $100 million in the Tax Office, we'll get $100 million in revenue. For example, the PvdA's electoral programme was passed on to half a billion euros. So it's less money. The second is that I've been asking for nine months for such support by the Secretary of State. It doesn't just come out of the top hat; we've had an intense discussion about it. I would like to make a few changes to the text of the motion, but this is the direction I think it should be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u195	The reference made here by Mr Nijboer is about business cases. We have indeed discussed this on a number of occasions. I've said over and over again that I understand what's behind that. If you could pick up more people, why don't you? At the same time, that means you have to make pre-investments without knowing for sure that you have it. With my own minister, I have been in a real debate on this on a number of occasions. That idea is not gone; there will be another discussion about it. This is something else for me. This isn't a business case right now. This is more about the question: if you have a problem with the service yourself, do you have to let that earlier cut go through? I also said that the most important problem of the service at the moment is not the money. We have now released extra money to recruit these 1,200 people, for example, on top of the recruitment needs we have. There's money for that now. So again, it is sympathetic and important that it is also felt from the political point of view that we do not have to cut down on the service too far. Nevertheless, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u196	The IRS actually has money left over, which is why the money isn't a problem. Because the Investment Agenda is lagging behind schedule. The Secretary of State could consider some of those funds.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So if I fill it out like this, because the budget is there and that's not a problem. Isn't that a route we could take to prevent people from being fired unnecessarily? I feel that the Secretary of State actually thinks that this should be supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u197	We're not actively trying to get people to pour out right now. Our problem is rather the other way around: due to the departure scheme a lot of people are pouring out. We have also clearly agreed that we are not going to do revolving door constructions, bringing those same people back in. That would be really wrong. So honestly: my biggest problem at the moment is not money, but making sure that we bring in quality people, because we are also dealing with mismatches. There's more of my energy in that right now than in the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u198	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u199	Of course, that's the biggest problem. At the same time, the ambition has been established to do the same work with far fewer people in the reorganisation process, which could cause major problems. However, I would like to call on the Secretary of State to see if that does not put too much pressure on the service.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u200	That's right. That call is definitely not for deaf ears. In fact, part of the management and renewal programme is that we are going to implement less automation quickly. This means that hopefully we will have a shortage of results. I have to take it with people, and I need money for that. I've cleared money to do that by now. If more is needed, I will say, with the money that is still on the bar, that if you ask me, the priority is also with the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u201	Following on from this: we have, of course, in the coalition agreement, also made extra time available for a number of years, because this phase-out has to be different. I think it would be a good idea for the Secretary of State here to confirm what I think his predecessor always said. He says money's not a problem right now. But I think it's good if he also says, if it's necessary because of continuity, then we're just gonna take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u202	Agreed. That's important. We can't abandon the service, not even financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u203	The final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u204	Then the final motion. Should I also respond to Tony van Dijck's motion? 'Cause I don't know if there's a judgment there yet...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u205	Well, not Tony van Dijck. The motion belongs to Mr Edgar Mulder. Oh, yeah, that motion belongs to Tony van Dijck, but it's again...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u206	Yeah, that's why. I thought: perhaps I should say something about that, because I do not think that this has yet been judged.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u207	Yeah, that's fine. That was the request, wasn't it? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u208	Yeah, I thought that was the request. I agree with some of the considerations. It is important to have and share the right information in the right way and structured. In the end it is also up to the Chamber to choose a form, but the underlying part I do. However, I do not recommend the motion, because there is a motion that I think is better, which is more in line with what I think is really going to help us. That is today's fifth motion, the motion in part No. 415. I do not advise against this because I think it builds on my letter and the insights that I have in order to improve the information provision with the Chamber in order to improve the discussion. That is certainly because the last motion by Mrs Lodders and Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Bruins, which contains news about my idea, including the request for further involvement of the Chamber in the definition and scope. I would also like to point out to Mr Snels that I wholeheartedly support his elements. I think that could very well be given a role in the discussion that this motion calls for. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u209	Okay. Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u210	On the motions tabled and on the Tony van Dijck and others motion held. (34950, No. 8) we will vote next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State and the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-7.u211	You're welcome.
