ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u1	The next item is the continuation of the first term of office for the internal affairs budget. I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u2	Thank you, Mr President. All good comes in two, I'll just say: before the break the minister and I get to finish. I can tell you that my input will be a little shorter than the Minister's. Perhaps that reassures some of you. I won't judge the quality, it doesn't suit me. I can at least tell you, Mr President, that I enjoyed the first term of office in the Thorbeckesal; it has been said before. A somewhat different setting, but appropriate given the lecture that the minister had given, the Thorbeckelezing, in which the vision from the Ministry of the Interior was also well chosen. The debate that took place today is very much in line with that. Mr. Chairman. In my area today, there are three issues in particular: the digital government, public services, including the right of mistake; digital inclusion; and cross-border cooperation. In all these areas, we have been able to take a significant number of steps in the last year. I would like to emphasise that we have done so with a lot of parties, including outside the department. There is often the image that we are in those towers. That's right; we can't deny that. But we are also very often active outside with all kinds of parties. That is exactly what the Ministry of the Interior wants to play. It is very nice to see that there is so much enthusiasm outside the departmental buildings, among people who have the same goals as the minister and I, namely to serve the people in the country. We want to do that by not excluding anyone and involving everyone. That is a considerable task, and we have already raised a number of such issues, but we are doing so with great enthusiasm. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the first block, the digital government. This cabinet not only has digitisation on the agenda, but has also identified it as a priority in the coalition agreement. This is not limited to the Department of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations. That goes much further; that also goes to other departments. During last week's contribution and also today about the house of Thorbecke a few thoughts crossed my mind. That house of Thorbecke has laid a very nice foundation over the past centuries that we are building on now, but also at the house of Thorbecke you have to adjust some things now and then. When we talk about digitization, I think we should replace pipes, create digital connections, routers and put new devices for the Internet or things in the house of Thorbecke, where that house stands like a house, and at the same time goes along with modern times. I believe that I have also made it clear, on the basis of last year's debates, that we really want to learn lessons from the various committees that have been looking at the way in which the government has to deal with digitisation over the past period. That digitization is there. We don't want to walk behind; we want to lead. At the same time, we want to use the safeguards to ensure that citizens' rights are properly protected. I would particularly like to mention the Elias Committee and the BRP Committee, which have delivered commendable opinions. According to these opinions, we are now also working. This means that we are developing digitization projects within the government step by step. We do not set up large-scale, megalomaniac projects with a high chance of failure, but we do it step by step, also by experimenting and walking off the beaten track. The minister has previously indicated in the Thorbeckelezing that she is seeking the boundaries. I even exceed them, but that is only in cross-border cooperation. I can see Mr Middendorp sighing of relief. It is only about cross-border cooperation. But that's kind of the attitude we have. Of course, we also have the BIT, the ICT Test Office, which has proven to play a very good role in the way projects are assessed. It also forces everyone who is working on these projects within the government to get those lessons from the Elias Committee and the BRP Committee working on their own again and again, in order to reduce the risk of errors. Mistakes will always be made, but it's about reducing the chances that projects funded by public money go wrong. As part of the question of how to deal with digitalization and what that requires from the political direction and the high level of administration, I took part in a course called the ABD APP of the General Administrative Service. I could also recommend them to the members of the House of Representatives if they are interested. It focuses on a number of these issues. Over the past few years and decades, finance has mainly been a steering tool. Now you see that especially the i of information and IT is a very important steering tool, which the new top managers of the government are also being prepared for. I thought that was an extremely useful course. For the rest, I didn't have time for courses; this is the only one I've followed in recent years. To take advantage of the opportunities of digitalisation, we have also explicitly sought the connection with the ministries of JenV and EZK. The National Digitisation Strategy has also been published, which looks at the exploitation of economic opportunities together with the protection of fundamental rights and also security, cybersecurity, from the justice side. Because the government's ambition is to continue to play a leading role on the global playing field of digitalisation. We're doing relatively well, but sitting still is going backwards. So we really have the ambition to continue with that. In the field of digital services for the citizen, which I am responsible for, the starting point is that the citizen and the entrepreneur are at the heart. Contact between public authorities and citizens and entrepreneurs must and can be better and simpler. That dot on the horizon, that ambition we all have. This has not yet been achieved immediately, but through the presentation of the agenda NL DIGIbeter I have tried to create an agenda that is not static and not concrete, together with many stakeholders from inside and outside the government. It's a rolling agenda, inviting all kinds of parties to see how we can do better. This already leads to MPs coming up with their own ideas on the basis of this and inspired by it. I warmly welcome that. This includes a number of actions for the coming years. These actions are about modernising the national sportals and releasing open source software, but also about experiments with digital identification and a national data agenda, which will be published at the end of this year. Together we try to link public and private interests to see how we can step by step improve what can be done better and try out what is possible. This agenda will therefore also be updated and the Chamber will be informed accordingly. In NL DIGIBetter is therefore especially how this citizen, as well as that entrepreneur, can be better placed in a position to gain control of data and control. But I cannot say it often enough: the importance of protecting fundamental rights and public values will also be at the heart of this. One of these principles is therefore a more personal service. The direction is strengthened and that means that some facilities also require modernisation, such as my.government.nl. This will have to be transformed into a place where citizens and entrepreneurs themselves can direct their data. This can be done by adjusting the personal data yourself, by providing insight into the recorded data, by giving consent to whom that data may be used and by managing the digital identity. In the latter context, Mr Middendorp and Mr Verhoeven also presented an own-initiative paper, which we will be discussing shortly. The issue of the digital authorisation of other persons is also important. This has been discussed several times in the Chamber. We are increasingly dealing with people who can't do this anymore and who want to empower someone. Then, of course, you want to make the whole process as simple but as safe as possible. I am committed to continuing to emphasise that the government also opts for customization. We know that developments in the digital society will continue. At the same time, there are people who can no longer fully follow that. There must also be room to give these people a place in the digital society through alternative forms. We're not leaving anyone behind. Mr. Chairman. Last week the Message Box app of my.overheid.nl was launched. I do not know if everyone has already downloaded it, but as promised to the Chamber, it has been delivered in accordance with schedule. That app makes it easier to read government mail on a mobile phone or tablet. Reading messages from the government becomes easier and people can also be alerted more quickly to new mail by a notification on their phone. Our expectation is that this will increase the number of messages that are being read. We had that discussion last year, when it was about nudging, seducing or better informing people. In the first week this app has been downloaded 80,000 times. I'm very happy about that. As far as I am concerned, it is only the beginning, but this will produce a new form of communication. Mr. Chairman. You can only innovate and improve things by organising things differently, by doing things differently than in the past. We don't do that without a policy. Of course, there is a vision behind this and we use modern techniques, but we will always have to bear in mind that we also guarantee privacy and security. Still, we're gonna have to experiment. That experimenting is also a matter of taking a different attitude and not taking everything for granted, but always thinking: how can we do it better? To encourage this, last Monday we kicked off the Startup programme in Residence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where start-ups temporarily commit to us to seek new solutions to societal issues using new technology. For example, one of these is the digital conclusion to find new innovative solutions for digital low-lettered people. The second is to try to connect supply more quickly in the housing market. We also do this with hackathons, together with DutchChain and other parties, to create innovation in a new conceptual way. Extremely interesting. I believe that the government should play an important role in this. Internationally speaking, it is a good thing to say this, I hear from many countries and from parties from many countries I am speaking to say that they are very pleased with the way in which the Netherlands is handling this. I believe that we can really play a leading role at European level, because it is not natural that it should happen in other countries as well. I've said a few things about public values. The tendency is very large to allow the technique to be leading. I am not in favour of not doing so, but this must be accompanied by a debate on what you think you should and should not be able to do. The technique in a sense has no boundaries and can go very far, but the question is always whether we want to implement all these applications automatically in that house of Thorbecke or whether we are asking ourselves whether this is at the expense of certain fundamental rights and public values. We do not run away from all kinds of technical solutions around blockchain and artificial intelligence. In fact, we want to know what that's like. But we have to ask ourselves each time whether it is useful to apply it in the way in which the government communicates and provides services to citizens and businesses. We received the report from the Rathenau Institute some time ago. We have already responded to this from the Home Office. The Council of State has also recently given its opinion and the Cabinet will respond to it next month in the direction of the Chamber. In the context of international cooperation, we are faced with issues which are also the subject of discussion in other countries. This is, of course, about the physical infrastructure that belongs to a digital government, so that you can compete globally with other countries. It is about speed, about access for businesses and people, but it is also about the issues of public value. In this context, I have begun to bring together a coalition of the willing, like-minded countries within Europe that have the same issues, to talk about this precisely and see what we can learn from each other and how we can strengthen each other. Following the debate the day before yesterday, following the Minister's interest, I took note of Mr Middendorp's five-point plan. I must honestly say that I also went to the website www.janmiddendorp.nl. Of course, I couldn't stay behind. I have to say that I got some feeling of confusion when I entered the website, because it took me some time to access the website. I got all kinds of pop-ups I had to click away. When I found the right piece after one minute and saw Mr Middendorp's five points, they were very recognizable to me. That is not strange, because we have been discussing this on a regular basis lately. As the Minister said, we think it is very important that, in the context of Mr Middendorp's points, but also of the vision we have with regard to ICT and the government that plays an important role in it, the government remains attractive as employers for those who are experts in this area. Partly you can stimulate that through courses such as those of the ABD, partly you rely on people from the market. In this context, I think it is very important that the Minister and I have both worked on this over the past year in order to maintain these contacts with the market. For us, the market is not a dirty word. We are in close contact with the market. We learn from it and they learn from us. This also means that we can show that we can add an extra dimension to those ICTs interested in these developments, precisely with regard to that normative framework on public values and fundamental rights. I note that the people we are bringing in, despite the tight labour market, are people who do not choose the highest salary, but who also have a different view of serving the public good. However, I cannot deny that we would like to have more of these people. So it is also a struggle between the market and the government. This issue is still on the agenda. Mr Van der Molen spoke in the debate about people getting stuck in systems and being sent from the locker to the wall. I must honestly say that we all know those examples of people who happen to be. It may happen to ourselves sometimes. This is not done exclusively by the government, I say immediately; it can also be done by companies. This gives a very detachable feeling and often leads to frustration and a kind of accumulation of errors where organisations are also going to point to each other. I think it is very important that the government not only applies the rules, but also sees how it can ensure that people who are at risk of falling between shore and ship are helped and how it can improve its systems in such a way as to minimise the chances of that happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u3	But the government is not a system. The government is a lot of people who are serving the citizen. I've actually been asking for attention to this for a few years. During the first period, I noticed that there was much more support for this and that many people had questions about it. The government's supposed to be human, too. As a citizen, you should always be able to go to an official, to a gentleman or a lady to whom you can refer your case and who always feels a bit of a problem owner of what you say, who can explain things, clear up misunderstandings, reassure and guide the right way. The government must also remain a human being. But where is man when we can only carry out more and more tasks digitally?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u4	Mr Van Raak is now confusing two things: whether it is digital or analog and the attitude and the way you deal with citizens. Whether it has digital or analog processes, the government fits the attitude that it is sympathetic to the citizen or the companies and that it communicates. That presupposes two-way traffic. And that is precisely why we want to introduce more two-way traffic into the digital systems and why we want to have alternatives in addition to the digital means for those who do not want to or cannot participate. That's an important condition. We have had this debate with each other before. The point about which we may not be entirely on the same page is that I think, on the basis of what I have learned about this, that you cannot stop the developments in digitisation. They're just gonna keep going. And as a government, you also need to provide services to people who are used to digital developments outside government. We must therefore communicate in a modern way. But much more important is that there is a way to call a helpdesk, something else, a phone or whatever and to say that you are stuck if there is any uncertainty as to whether you are actually stuck on a website. And we organized that pretty well. I know, of course, that there is a discussion about the Tax Administration, but in fact it is a very good example of how the various forms of service take shape. In the beginning, I said that the task we all have and are already being tested for, including within our organisation, is to consider how we can improve this. And we're just doing that by watching what happens to people we put in such a customer journey and where they might get stuck.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u5	Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u6	The Secretary of State says: if you get stuck on the Internet, you can call someone; the Tax Phone is a good example of that. But it's just my fright that it's gonna be like that! People sometimes get crazy about the Tax Phone, because there are people behind it who read in a call center from another computer what the answer to the question you asked over the phone is. I mean, the government has to be a human being, a civil servant you can talk to, a gentleman or a lady who gets it and knows where to go. Human, smaller. No, I'm not against progress. I am not against digitisation, but I am against it when it is used to throw people out and make services less human.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u7	Mr Van Raak and I agree on that point. Then it's really about attitude and not so much about medium. I've also been given letters that can't be read. It's about being helped in the right way if you have a problem. We now have some cases going on where I am really looking at how we can solve it as a citizen or a company that, although formally, in the official sense, also outside the government, has done what he has to do, gets the feeling that he is not being heard or not being heard. I think it is a task not only to say to each other at the end of the day: we have applied the rules well. No, it's also about people getting the feeling that they're being heard and helped. Is that what people always want to hear? It doesn't have to be, Mr Van Raak will understand that. The point is that you set up the service in a good way. By the way, we all have that experience. It is not an excuse, but it often goes very wrong with companies. Then it's just gonna be disconnected after ten minutes. We all know how you feel about that, which is that you're not taken seriously. That's the last thing we want. We want citizens and businesses to be taken seriously. If you're stuck somewhere, you have to try to fix it technically. We also see this in the systems that we are testing, for example, where there are no logical paths. Digitalisation can play a role in improving this. It's not just a threat. We all know the example of the smartphone that can be easily operated by children. This is because the technique behind it is very complex, but the application is relatively simple. We need to work more on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u8	My fear is that you can't solve it technically. Years ago, the National Ombudsman has already investigated this. He said that a lot of complaints we get, even a very large part of the complaints we get, would never have been there if there had been normal human contact, if, for example, people could have just expressed their concerns. I am very much afraid that the technical solution chosen will become a technicalization of the government. Now that city halls are already being closed, I can see they're heading in the wrong direction. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you cannot introduce humanity into a system in a technical way, but only by putting good people there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u9	I fully agree with the latter. Once again, we are going on the road of digitisation, but there will always have to be another possibility, a sidetrack or an outlet, for people who are stuck or not on the digital highway at all. I have spoken with many organisations in the past who represent people who have difficulty dealing with digitalisation. There's more than a lot of them think. Listening to those people is, I think, the way to put emergency bandages to help that group too. Honesty commands me to say that more and more people find it easy, provided well-designed, that digitalisation develops further. So we have to walk different paths. We are not a company that can choose to approach a particular market and target group and leave the rest. We're an inclusive government. We leave no one behind, but we are there for every citizen in this country. This means that our service package must have all this diversity. Following the debates we have had over the past year and the Digital Government Agenda NL DIGIBetter, in which this is clearly described, I hope that Mr Van Raak will realise that we are not leaving that group, despite the fact that we are going down the digital road.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u10	I believe and trust the Secretary of State. That's not where the problem is. I'm worried about how we're gonna materialize that. It is about digital government, but accessibility is not explicitly regulated. I have already made the suggestion myself to do something with a digital neighbourhood helper. How do we ensure that what we both want, including what Mr Van Raak says, becomes tangible and that it does not become empty and empty?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u11	That's a fair point. Some modesty suits me. I want to cooperate to the maximum in stimulating innovations and experiments, but we were talking about right to challenge. I went to Twente a few weeks ago. There I spoke to people from a foundation who are working in rural areas to bring digitization to the attention of the elderly, for example, of people who do not automatically work with an iPad or a computer. There you see very surprising results. This is also about the fight against unification, by bringing people back into contact with each other. It is a very nice example, not in The Hague, but just in the region. If you were to export this to other parts, you could get to work in a very practical way. Actually, I'd like to say that I'm not too crazy as long as it works. There are different forms of appearance. I do not think that we should decide how to do it from The Hague. I just think that we need to emphasise this issue politically. I can only see support for this subject throughout the Chamber. Everyone's talking about it. It is up to me to bring parties together and put good initiatives on a pedestal. In this way, we will take steps forward each time and inspire people to respond to this. I found the suggestion for the digital neighbourhood help a very interesting one in this context. Mrs. Kuik may not know, but actually that is what is already happening in Twente.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u12	Yeah, I knew that. Only, my concern is that digital developments are going so fast. A number of cities are ahead of them and others are behind them. If you don't set a standard of what you expect from it, what that accessibility is, whether you're still making that punch and if there's anyone else you can talk to about flesh and blood, then I say, where are we going to be together? So I really like to leave things to all kinds of smart initiatives, but all these smart initiatives must eventually lead to something. I do not impose on the police forces exactly how to set up their corps, but yet we have a number of standards together because we do think there should be enough district agents, because if there are not, we know that it is going to go wrong at all. So this is all gonna be too non-committal for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u13	That is certainly not the intention. The norm is that everyone should be able to participate. This means that unlike a company, the government must focus on all those target groups. I've been to the Read & Writing Foundation. I have been to the Bartiméus Foundation for the visually impaired, where some of you have been. These are all people who, from a different background, have difficulty with the way the government organized things. The very concrete task is to make people who have that feeling feel that they can do better and differently. And we can't do that alone. I want all parties who have knowledge and experience of it and who represent these people, who represent the low-literate, the digibetes, the visually impaired and the blind, to have a role in this process. Only, what I don't want is for us to put down some sort of blueprint from The Hague for how to do that. I would like to use that experience for our government organisations to say: take this into account and make sure that these people are also satisfied clients of the government. The same applies to business. I am talking to a number of companies that have exactly the same issues and want to know from us how to solve them. So this is a social-wide issue where we all have a responsibility. I am appealing to that responsibility from the government, but here we are very strongly seeking the connection with all kinds of civil society organisations. I would very much like to share with the Chamber the initial findings, results of such discussions and experiences in the update of the Agenda NL DIGI better, so that we can also discuss them. I believe very strongly in the strength of the bottom to bring about this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u14	All people go to school and yet we have a million illiterates. Why am I saying this anecdotal? Good ideas, best practices and freedom, happiness is all very nice, but if it doesn't mean that all people can actually participate and it's too noncommittal, then I know one thing for sure: then it doesn't lead to the goal the Secretary of State has in mind. I would nevertheless like to call on him, including in the framework of the Digital Government Agenda, to see how you can measure what you are aiming for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u15	Freedom, happiness, that's frankly not in my vocabulary. That's not something I'm dealing with. You'll have to be at another club for that. What I am trying to say is that I want to bring together the strength and knowledge of civil society organisations and the bottom-up initiatives with the ideas we have. I think we serve the same purpose. I have already said once and again that the norm is that everyone can participate and continue to participate. That's what the government's asking for. Does this mean we'll have everything taken care of tomorrow? No, that is a continuous path, because also the developments in digitalisation continue. From my responsibility, I do feel obliged to take care of this. The accessibility of websites, not only those of Mr Middendorp, but also those of the government, can be improved. They can become even faster and more accessible. So that's what we need to keep talking to each other about. Then let's keep doing that. I do not believe that all kinds of conditions and obligations, other than those already in force under UN conventions on accessibility of websites, would further encourage people or organisations to do other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u16	Of course, communication between public authorities and citizens sometimes goes wrong, not only in digital communication but in all written communication. We all need to find the human size. I also see a Secretary of State who has an eye for that, which is very good. We have already talked about the right to make mistakes. The Secretary of State visited his colleague in France and removed ideas. I know from the answer to my written questions about this that the Secretary of State is also going to look at legal issues and that sort of thing. But I do have a supplementary question. Municipalities think that the granting of the right to make mistakes is a very nice development. How does the Secretary of State view a possible local experimental space? Does he also think that municipalities should be allowed to work on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u17	The Secretary of State indicated that that was his second block, but maybe he's riding it right in here. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u18	The client is king, chairman. I'm glad you received the letter positively. You specifically ask what space there is for municipalities to experiment with. I have indicated that the context in which Mrs Den Boer laid down this issue in the Netherlands is different from that in France, because the legislation in France already has a lot less provisions which allow you to make a mistake once, but the idea behind it is very appealing to me. At that time, I said that it should apply to everyone, including those in government: they should be mistaken at some point. But I'm very much in favour of experimenting with this. It should apply not only to municipalities, but also to other public organisations. Of course, that's gonna be exciting, because how far can you go in there? Everyone makes mistakes, but it's about asking whether all those mistakes are intentional or most of them are real mistakes, and whether you want to punish people for that right away. In practice, many organisations already have rules of coulance, hardness clauses or whatever in their procedures. To the organisations that do not have them, I would say: look again closely at whether they can get in. That is exactly why I have suggested organising a round table: I would like to bring together a number of parties to ask, on the basis of this theme, how are we doing in our organisation? to be mirrored. If organizations want to experiment with this, without me knowing exactly what they're aiming for, they'll basically get that space. It must not, of course, be in breach of our legislation. We assume that a citizen does not make intentional mistakes, but at the same time we are also dealing with fraud. We shouldn't be naive about that. If there is fraud, we must act hard, but we must not treat everyone in advance as a fraud. That was also Mrs Den Boer's plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u19	I understand that, of course. It is not about fraud, it is about human mistakes that can be made: not seeing a letter, not seeing a post or anything like that. I welcome the words of the Secretary of State about possible local experimental space. I expect the municipalities to be eager to get to work on this. And I'm glad the Secretary of State says the client is king. That actually sounds liberal, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u20	I call that service-oriented service, but okay, we can put it in a political booth. I would say that it is not just a matter of liberals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u21	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u22	Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with Mr Van der Molen, who was stuck in a system, at least he called for examples of this. In fact, all the interruption debates went on afterwards, so I think I have said enough about that. Then I come to Mr Verhoeven. It has outlined a number of problems with regard to the digital government. I must say that his input was very appealing to me, because he has put his finger on a number of points. I also saw many similarities with the points already mentioned in NL DIGIBERT. This involves, for example, the more active involvement of users in the development of government websites, the integration of digital portals for services to citizens, professionals and entrepreneurs, the way in which the government can clearly understand how its systems work and the improvement of the knowledge of people working in the government. The National Academy for the Digital Government is a good example of this, as is the ABD APP. Those are all things that appeal to me very much. Mr Verhoeven suggested that there should be a single coordinating director for ICT within the government. For this, I refer to the letter from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who was sent on my behalf on 11 October, because it touches a little on the discussion we had just had about ICT as a new steering tool. That is indeed the issue, but that coordinating role does not mean that the Minister and I, or one of us, can take over the responsibility of the trade ministers for their digitisation processes. That would be contrary to the Constitution. I think that Mr Verhoeven's appeal is as I interpret it now: that you should look at how you are going to steer more coordinated and coherently. The ambitions of the coalition agreement, which cannot be misunderstood, have now been translated into the Dutch Digitalisation Strategy and into the agenda NL DIGIbeter. These are action points, all of which must be operationalised. In the discussion you have about this, for example in the framework of the Digital Government Act, you try to bring together the different developments in the departments regarding frameworks within which you do certain things. How do you deal with ICT projects, how important do you consider the role of citizens in certain processes? Each department is now dealing with ICT. All specialist committees here in the Lower House discuss with ministers the extent to which these processes are going well or that they need to be improved. For example, when we talk about issues such as open source or the application of algorithms, which Mr Verhoeven has already asked questions about, we naturally come up with something like a framework in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can indeed play that role. We do not just do that, I say explicitly. We always do this in coordination with the other departments. But the role of director has been invested in the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u23	It is not at all that I am very dissatisfied with the way in which the cabinet is currently coordinating all digitization issues, although it is about three disks, and although it is also three disks with three rulers who happen to be all three of the CDA. I have no concern about that in itself. And I see that's what's happening. Only, Mr Middendorp has drawn a parallel with the Ministry of Finance earlier today. I would like to draw a parallel to the fact that there is also a committee on European Affairs. There is a committee on European Affairs, while all committees are also concerned with the European dimension. In this sense, I find the idea of a ruler who can also be addressed by a specialist committee, even though digitisation is at all committees, a thought that we could build on. How does the Secretary of State see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u24	Mr Verhoeven is quite right to say so. Of course, we come from a situation in which those responsibilities were invested exclusively in the departmental departments. In the present cabinet, everything related to digitisation is actually divided between four directors. The Minister of the Interior is responsible for the state ICT, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs is responsible for the digital economy, the Minister of Justice and Security is responsible for cybersecurity and the Secretary of State for the Interior is responsible for the digital government for citizens and businesses. I also spoke with my French colleague, Mr Mahjoubi, at Mrs Den Boer's request. That's where everything was wrapped in one hand. That's where everything lies with one ruler. In addition, there are always dividing lines with departmental departments. That is also the case there. But what is clear is that ICT or digitisation is no longer something of "beyond." It's just government core business. When we discuss this subject, all colleagues in the cabinet, all the departments of the trade, will talk about it. An example is the letter about the steering on "e" which was recently sent. In that sense, it is well arranged. Is this the end of the way we built this? I'm afraid to say that. It's working now. Maybe you could take some more steps in that. The most important thing is to agree on the main lines of computerisation policy, its foundations and the framework conditions. This was found in both his translation in the letter that the minister sent on my behalf, as well as in the Digital Government Act, which is now pending before the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u25	I agree. Indeed, steps have already been taken in relation to the past. Although I still hear a lot of companies, organisations, experts and scientists say that coordination is difficult. Can the Secretary of State now outline what is going on in practice between these three ministries? Is that a regular meeting? So how is this coordination being developed? I think it is quite right that we should choose the security, digital government, digital opportunities perspective. This is also described in all documents. But how does that work in practice? Co-ordinating something like that over all other departments is more difficult than doing it from one department.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u26	With regard to the latter, I could set up a tree in other policy areas, whether it would be easier to do so as one person. You can also say that if more rulers are responsible, it is also felt more as a collective responsibility. Of course, we have the administrative layer, which I have just mentioned. We also have the administrative layer of the CIOs in the various departments, under the leadership of the CIO Empire. So there is also coordination at that level, at a high level of administration. That's just a reflection. As regards the cooperation between the three directors, if, for example, letters of office or notes are made, and now, for example, cabinet responses, the same composition takes place. The same applies to the Dutch Digitisation Strategy. So that tuning's fine. And the fact that there is regular discussion in the Council of Ministers on this subject, and I cannot, of course, mention what has been said, also indicates that it is no longer something of Minister X or Y, but a collective responsibility that is ultimately invested in the specific areas of the various rulers. For of course, all these trade ministers have, for their implementation organisations, most of the directors do have an implementation organisation where digitalisation is playing... all have a picture and sound of what that means in practice. So they also talk about those framework policy papers from that experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u27	Thank you. Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u28	Of course, I couldn't let this go, because the Secretary of State has clearly described how you don't just have to look at one ruler for digitisation, he has explained how it goes with three. I would like to point out to him that there are actually many more. Because in all these other departments very large ICT procurements are sometimes also made, at Social Affairs or other departments. There may also need to be more knowledge exchange. That is what steps have been taken, and we have just talked about this before lunch. How does the Secretary of State look at the layer under the CIO Reich et cetera? So not the top-down structure, but more knowledge sharing on the workplace floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u29	The first part of Mr Middendorp's question was that more rulers have responsibility. I have just explained this in detail, so I fully agree with him. Of course, there is also a simple exchange of knowledge at policy levels, depending on the policy area. Let me give you an example: when the discussion was about the fraud at the UWV; not at the UWV, but fraud committed with UWV files. Then, of course, there will also be coordination with other departments that have knowledge and skills. We are one government and of course we have a certain classification, but also at the levels below is simply exchanged. I haven't even talked about conferences yet, but I'm not talking about ABD learning, where officials from different departments sit together and share their experiences. I've been talking about the National Academy. So actually at all levels that connection is there, you might say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u30	That's interesting, and that's how I see it, as far as I can tell. The question then is whether there is anything to be gained there. Because I can imagine very well, especially in crisis situations or in such a fraud case and so on, that people will find each other. I ask the Secretary of State whether in his view there is still something to gain in order to strengthen that cooperation and perhaps to seek systems. I also have something in mind, as I say right away, in order to make the sharing of knowledge even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u31	It can always be better. There's not a ruler here who says, "It's all going well." It can always be better. But the attitude, the recognition that digitalization is a sine qua non, I would almost say without digitization, nothing happens anymore in our still digitized government. For example, if there is a crisis, as Mr Middendorp calls it, it can be a hack or any other violation of the integrity of personal data or whatever, then there will be immediate consultation with the authorities responsible for it within the government. That's all very well organized. That's very fast. We have discussed this before in the debate. So that's actually well invested at all levels. The question that arises when you find that it can always be better, how are we going to do it? Mr Middendorp's suggestion on this matter has just been dealt with in detail by the Minister. I agree with that, of course, within the framework of the unity of government policy but also because... Then the question is whether the proposal, as you have done in concrete terms, is the best way to go there. Eventually, awareness, steering on IT and learning the lessons of committees that have written very commendable reports on it are much more important. Finally, there is also the notion that things can not always go well. We shouldn't be cramped about that either. I've reported that several times. I have also found support for this in the Chamber. That is not a bonus to make mistakes, but if we want to rule out mistakes, mistakes are made. So we also have to have an attitude that we accept that sometimes things go wrong, but by making the steps manageable we try to keep the negative effects as small as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u32	Very briefly, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u33	Clear. If the Secretary of State says we should learn from committees, I think he also means that we should learn from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u34	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u35	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u36	Mr. Chairman. I have already said something about digital inclusion, but I would like to say a few things about it. I also see very young people sitting in the gallery, who are not usually here because they have to go to school, but are now on autumn holidays. I have also spoken with the Council of Children, for example, about how to promote in a very simple way people who are perhaps less dignitary can participate. What I loved about that session was that the idea came up that kids were going to help their grandparents and grandmothers get on the smartphone. I have also heard the experiences of the Dag!en Doen Foundation! in Twente, who equips the elderly with iPads. They noticed that the elderly not only were going to do those things with the iPad they intended, but that the elderly, once they had discovered the iPad, were also going to build whatsap and social networks they had never heard of. This is really something to do and facilitate. This does not only have to be done by the government; it can also be municipalities. You see really beautiful things. I myself found the visit to Bartiméus very impressive. I received a guided tour of a website in a kind of simulated environment from a young, partially sighted employee of that foundation, Falco van Dinteren. If you see how bad some websites are designed for visually impaired people, which means they are completely stuck and people with poor vision are literally isolated from government services, then we really have something to gain. That kind of work visits always give me courage and energy to work with our officials on this every day, because this is something we need to be constantly working on. Mrs Özütok reported, as she has done more often, that she believes everyone should be able to participate. I wholeheartedly endorse that. I can therefore report that it has also been reported to the Chamber earlier that digital public sector information and services should be available and accessible to all. The cabinet has decided that new policies and new legislation require a so-called capacity test for citizens. This is in response to an opinion of the Scientific Council for Government Policy. The test will be included in the comprehensive balancing framework used by departments in the review of new policies. At the front, we have to ask each time who we make the websites for and whether everyone can get on them. We want to be inclusive from the beginning. It often goes unintentionally wrong, but by asking that question at the front, you hopefully prevent people from getting into trouble. Mr Van der Molen also asked a question on this subject, following the opinion of the Council of State. I have already indicated to him that that answer will come to the Chamber before Christmas. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the third block: cross-border cooperation. So that's what cross-border is in it. The boundaries are incredibly important. Not because they are borders, but because at the edge of those borders, on both sides, a lot of potential remains unused. When we talk about Europe, we often talk about the great institutional changes and challenges that Europe stands for, but for many people Europe is mainly the Europe of the border regions, where you find your neighbours and where you sometimes run into borders. Remember, there are 6 million people living in these border regions. I've traveled the entire border region for the past year. I have met a great deal of enthusiasm with drivers and citizens on both sides of the border. I have heard what problems people face and at the same time what opportunities they see. These problems can be summarized as, in particular, frontier work, accessibility and lack thereof, recognition of professional qualifications, problems of enterprise across borders and local education. And of course there are also a number of specific bottlenecks per location. Mrs Van der Graaf asked me about progress in border regions. Now we have had a recent debate on this and on 20 April I informed the Chamber of my commitment on this issue. The most important thing is that, as a cabinet, we have set ourselves the objective of removing the bottlenecks that exist as much as possible. I am thinking of bottlenecks which cannot be solved at the level of the municipalities and regions themselves. At the same time, we want to encourage initiatives that are being taken to make these borders disappear figuratively and to see how we can make the most of the resources available at European level to facilitate good cross-border cooperation initiatives. And finally, how do you organise governance? It may not be the most interesting subject, but it is a condition to be able to do it right. In simple Dutch: how do you ensure that the good people on both sides of the border speak to each other, without creating all kinds of bureaucracy? In the past year I have been able to meet many people across the border, both in Flanders and Lower Saxony as well as in North Rhine-Westphalia, but also administrators and citizens on the Dutch side. As a result, governance is actually ready. This will be confirmed in the government meeting of the Dutch and Flanders and North Rhine-Westphalia respectively in November. I'll inform the Chamber afterwards about the progress. I can say that an important element of this governance is strengthening the role of trade ministers on both sides of the border. They are also given a place in this governance, so that it is not only a matter of a coordinating executive in the Netherlands, North Rhine-Westphalia or Lower Saxony, but also that the trade ministers, for example those of Social Affairs, Education and Infrastructure, are also given a role in this. It is often the subjects on their land that sometimes fall between shore and ship because they are a border problem. Mr Van der Molen asked whether we could not get closer to citizens, just at the level of the people living in those border regions. I must say that I am very enthusiastic about that idea, not least because I myself went to Germany once in my own youth. I remember exactly how exciting it was to participate in a football tournament in another country at the age of eight in which you do not speak the language and to stay with people who speak another language. It leads to a great deal of understanding and recognition of how neighbors live and live. And I think it can also contribute to the blurring of borders in that area as well. Then what is better than giving the new generation, the people who are going to shape Europe over the next few years, this opportunity to do things with sport and culture? I have to say, I'm very excited about it. Mr. Chairman. It also fits the challenge we have all faced to ensure that German becomes more prominent as a second or third language. This, of course, is particularly true on the German side of the border and in the border area of the Netherlands. It should not just be about English, we should also encourage German. Luckily, that's heading in the right direction. Recently I saw the example of the Valuas College in Venlo where they want to teach a number of subjects in German, just as you now often see bilingual English teaching. That's good, because then there's something to choose. It's all very nice when young people of that age come into contact with that second language in a perhaps playful way. There are also projects in the EUREGIO. For example, learning the project in the EUREGIO in Kleve helps, because they are going to train euregional students. There are students from different countries in one class and they speak German or Dutch alternately. That just helps to build understanding for each other. It can also help in the later stages of life, because people then more easily cross the border to work and live and then return. I think it is also in line with the perspective the Minister is working on for those areas where population is stagnating or declining and where all kinds of problems arise. By means of more cross-border connections, you can get economically attractive regions. So we can really do some nice things here. In this context, there is now also a youth summit, ahead of the Flemish-Dutch summit on 5 November. I'll be there myself. There we talk to young people on both sides of the border about issues that concern this generation, just as we have the youth parliament here. I like doing that. There's always a lot of energy. Then there are Mr Middendorp's questions about the border app. We have talked about this a few times. On the day we discussed this in a debate on border effects, the steering group of the five border information points indicated that they did not hear from their constituents that there is a need for a border app. They consider the current channels they use to be sufficient to communicate. I have already indicated, in response to questions from Mr Middendorp, that it is not up to us to determine how the border information points organise their information. This is their current view, but I do see an attitude in the sense that they are also of the opinion that you should always improve it. I would like, perhaps on behalf of Mr Middendorp, to point out to the border information points that the signal here is that it is good to go along with modern techniques, but I do not want to impose it, because I do not want to interfere in the operation of those border information points. I hope Mr Middendorp understands that. However, I am pleased that these border information points can continue, that it has been said from the Dutch side by SZW's colleague, Secretary of State Van Ark, that she is responsible for the Dutch part of the costs in proportion, and that the regions will also be involved. That's a good sign. It was just an interrupting debate with Mr Van Raak about the human dimension; this is a very good example of all kinds of regulation that comes together, not always automatically leads to a solution, but sometimes you need a broker who sits around with people and discusses and solves their multiple problems. I haven't heard anyone in the last year who said that these border information points should be stopped. Everyone wants them to keep going. That's a good sign. This also ensures better cooperation in the region. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I am very pleased that the various proposals for regional deals, the projects that have been notified, contain many cross-border components. I have also expressly invited the regions I have visited, because they are often untapped opportunities. I hear that the attention of the cabinet on this important issue is extremely welcome. Mr President, I believe that I may not have answered Öztürk's question, but I have answered most of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u37	Thank you. We're gonna hear it. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u38	The Secretary of State is also responsible for digitisation. Well, your colleague said we're in cyber war with Russia. You've also been a soldier. When you are at war, you are also under attack; I also see a number of soldiers in the public gallery. Our country is also being attacked, digitally, and the citizens are simply affected by it. They can't pin a day, they can't spend a day on their Wi-Fi or any other business. They have material damage. Who's responsible for that? The moment we expand our AIVD and engage in the cyber war and will be attacked even more, many citizens will suffer from it. Who's responsible for that? And how does our government protect citizens from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u39	Before I go into the last question, the central question, first the following. It is a misconception that soldiers are for war or would like war. They want to prevent that from happening. There's someone here who wants to, just to be clear. In my view, the Minister has just made it very clear how we look at the threat from the Interior. There is. Absolutely. That is precisely why the Ministry of Justice and Security also plays an important role in cyber security. In doing so, the government has the task of protecting institutions, public institutions or matters where, for example, citizens' data is stored. That's a real government job. Business also has its own responsibility to do so. And we cannot deny that attacks around the world are unfortunately daily reality. There are all kinds of websites that make that very clear. So that's what we need to arm ourselves against. Let me say it in a transitional sense: not literally arming but against arms. We shouldn't be naive about that. We must be extremely serious about this. There's a lot at stake. There are major interests involved if you get access to databases with identity data from others. You have the state actors. Then you could talk about the metaphor of the war. Of course, you also have the criminals, who are just trying to get data and get access to systems, and then demand ransom for that and make a save. Both are equally threatening for the government in that sense. We have to arm ourselves against that. We deal with that every day. We have experts on that, who monitor all that and ensure that MyGovernment remains accessible. Unfortunately it happened in the past year that it was not accessible, because we had to close the site because there were too many attacks. That is a very serious matter. The government has an important responsibility to prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u40	The question was who pays for the damage and how we can ensure that it doesn't happen. That's not answered, but okay. If you compare that with Belgium, Luxembourg, Denmark or Finland, will we be attacked more often than those countries? Or is it the case that the Netherlands is more involved in international geopolitical matters, which means that the attacks of the Netherlands are somewhat larger? Because we, as I understand, hack ourselves, are we being hacked, too? Are we attacked in comparison with other countries, which are similar in size to the Netherlands, or is it just a trend throughout the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u41	First the question that had remained: who pays the damage? The government itself invests in the defence of our data and our systems. So that's just on the government's behalf. Companies do the same. They pay their share. That is the answer to the question. On the question of whether we are attacked more often and how you measure that, in absolute numbers or relative, I cannot give a clear answer. I also think that sometimes the attribution is not fully visible. Whether there are multiple attacks and where they are monitored, but if I have any information about them, it doesn't seem convenient for me to share them here. But I don't know. I do not know exactly whether we are being attacked more often in relation to other countries or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u42	Final word?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u43	Yes. My question was whether we are doing something different than other countries, which means that we are being attacked a little more than other countries. I think we should be able to monitor that. If we do some hacking ourselves, we will also be able to expect some hacking back. Are you prepared to compare this with other countries? You do not have to share all the data, but can you make a comparison so that we know if we are attacked a little more often than Belgium, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u44	Maybe you shouldn't ask me that question. Maybe you should ask someone else. That seems to me to be the most honest answer to Mr Öztürk. 'Cause I can't give you the answer. I don't have that data at my disposal either. It seems to me that you are not going to be able to answer the questions on this matter. I cannot guarantee that you will be able to answer the honourable Member. Maybe you'll get an answer there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u45	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his first reply. I am looking at those Members who are undoubtedly in need of a second term. That's what I wanted to do in a rush. I give the floor to Mr Bosma of the PVV as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber in the second term. No, Mr. Bosma, we're not suspending. If you leave us flabbergasted, we might suspend for half an hour, but I think we're gonna be fine. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u46	I thank the directors for their introduction and for answering the questions. Mr. Chairman. In part one of this debate, which we held in the Thorbeckezal, I found that D66 is an anti-democratic party. See the words of Ollongren at a D66 meeting in Amsterdam, in which she openly advocated non-recognition of the election results when the PVV wins, and in which case to prepare for a separate Republic of Amsterdam. Never in the history of the States-General, which dates back to the year of our Lord 1464, we had here a ruler who is so openly antidemocratic. All her demolition work on our democracy must be understood from that mentality. See the demolition of the binding referendum, see the destruction of the consultative referendum, see the demolition of 30 municipalities and the associated local democracy, see the appointment of party friend Thom de Graaf as Vice-President of the Council of State, see the cooperation on the further transfer of power to unelected bureaucrats in Brussels and the further erosion of our hard-won national sovereignty, see her hate campaign against what she calls fake news with the aim of ringing freedom on the Internet, and see today again D66's initiative to enshrine our EU membership in the Constitution, terrified that the people are going to vote against it. A world of difference by 1994, when Hans van Mierlo proposed a binding referendum, precisely in order to be able to vote on the EU and Maastricht. But, Mr President, we all knew that. In the debate we were allowed to see something completely different, something that shocked my group to the bone: D66 has once again emerged as a racist party. The D66 representative Mrs Den Boer notes that there are too many white people working in ministries. That bumps into her chest, that's wrong. In the debate on human resources policy, D66 argues that the number of white people working for the government should be reduced. That's very serious. Apparently, it's just one thing about D66, and that's race. It's not about immigrants or migration backgrounds, it's about skin color. That is very serious and we should not let that pass. A political party that chooses to judge people by their skin color. "You're white? Well, then we'd rather not have you." It's too sick for words. It is also shocking that Mrs Den Boer calls on Article 1 of the Constitution for this to happen, which apparently, according to the party of all state lawyers and the head of the Council of State, has a racist effect. The fear beats you around the heart, the Enlightenment never existed. Reverend Martin Luther King Junior once gave a famous speech: I have a dream. In it he said to dream of the day that his children would not be judged on the colour of their skin, but on the content of their character. D66 declares war on that dream in this debate, D66 assesses people's skin color. A racist personnel policy is wanted, just like the Ku Klux Klan actually. Diversity like the progressives using it is a constant plea for racism. Because of your skin color, you're more or less welcome to work somewhere. D66 used to call herself liberal, but now she chooses to see individual citizens as members of a group. People are reduced to their skin color. You can't think any more unliberal. Identity politics are miles away from anything Hans van Mierlo or Thorbecke has ever stood for. It is also a goodbye to the meritocratrie, that the best person should simply come to a position. And the anti-white escapades of D66 are all the stranger for those who look at the racial composition of D66 meetings. They're as white as a brawn of the African resistance movement. I was not there, but I dare to take poison that the speech that Ollongren gave to the D66 people in Amsterdam, in which she declared war on parliamentary democracy, was a speech for a completely white audience. That is beautiful in itself in the multicolored Amsterdam. Anyway, that's what D66 looks like. And the D66 group in the Lower House doesn't exactly look like the members were born in Soweto. Wouldn't you start doing that sacred diversity yourself before you start cleaning ministries ethnically? One point of light: the trailer of D66 evaporates. The party is the Twan Huys of Dutch politics. Hopefully, it will soon be back on zero seats, just like in 2006, when it could only come to the Chamber after a vote by Mr Erdogan. But that doesn't solve the problem. D66 is the par excellence of the elites of the Netherlands, of many judges, prosecutors, journalists, business bobos, professors, senior officials, the subsidised action system and so on. We only understand how we are driven into the swamp now that we understand what the true mentality of D66 is. The mentality of anti-white racism is apparently the culture of the elites of the Netherlands. Mr President, it is not our birthday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u47	It is clear that the PVV has become extra obsessed with my party over the last few days, I'll say. Last year I actually heard all kinds of strange lyrics coming out of Mr Bosma's mouth. I had planned today not to respond to it and ignore it. I could ignore most of it, but the accusation of racism on the basis of the proposal we have made for greater diversity is really far from my point of view. It doesn't make any sense, it's far-fetched, it's seriously offensive, it's totally wrong. Mr Bosma knows that. All he wants to do is win politics based on statements that don't add up. I still think I should say something about it, because otherwise I'm gonna let it go and people are gonna think it's true. We also talked today about disinformation and fake news. The second term of the Bosma as a whole was fake news and disinformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u48	Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u49	It didn't make any sense. I'd still like to speak against it. Diversity in government is something completely different from racism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u50	I think it's weird. The day before yesterday, at least in part one of the debate, Mrs De Boer spoke about this. Mr Verhoeven only talked about digitalization. Now I am attacking Mrs De Boer and her group, and Mr Verhoeven's big brother has to come to the interrupting microphone to protect Mrs De Boer, because Mrs De Boer cannot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u51	It's Mrs. Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u52	Mr Verhoeven himself said here the day before yesterday that he was here to talk about digitisation. But Mrs De Boer does not even dare to defend her own words here. That's how weak D66 is. That is the debate of the Netherlands. Mrs De Boer does not even dare to come to the interrupting microphone to defend her own racist proposals. Mrs. De Boer just said it. She said those ministries are "too white." That's racism. That's a racist proposal. Why isn't Mrs. De Boer at the Interrupt Microphone and Big Brother Verhoeven? I think that's weird. I think it is a violation of the agreements previously made in part one of this debate. Mrs. De Boer, meet me at that interrupting microphone. You're a racist, Mrs. De Boer. You're making racist proposals. Why aren't you standing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u53	I have only responded to Mr Bosma's contribution in the first term and just in the second. I've heard that whole input. It covered a large part of my party, the input of Mrs Den Boer, my earlier input and the input of the Minister of the Interior from a year ago. It was all about all kinds of things. We decide how to divide the tasks. I have listened to Mr Bosma's contribution. I responded to that. He now starts bouncing through the hall calling for someone else to respond to him. That's extremely childish. He's not interested in the content at all. This is a political game. It doesn't make any sense. It is even unworthy of your party to rage and use the word 'racism' when there is talk of diversity. You disappoint me very much today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u54	I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u55	I actually have a point of order. Mr Bosman says to a fellow MEP that you are a racist, and you do not intervene. I have often seen you leave the Chamber in other Gremia when you thought: I do not want to experience this. So I would like to ask you first: do you think it is right that one parliamentarians here should say to another parliamentarians 'you are a racist'? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u56	You're asking me the question. I am happy to give the floor first to the party accused of this, and I think that Mr Verhoeven has prepared this on behalf of D66. This is how I conduct the debate here as chairman. If you have a question for me, you can, but this is my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u57	It's kind of sad to see you let these words go. This means that there can be a cultural change here and Mr Bosman can say even worse next time. I will also mention that this kind of language is used under your presidency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u58	Fine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u59	This really is a far-reaching accusation against a Member of Parliament. I would have expected an intervention from the President-in-Office at the moment. Well, I'm disappointed in you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u60	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u61	You could have asked me the question. I'd have liked to have riposted. Then why are you attacking the chairman? I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u62	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Middendorp of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had here: "It was a good debate." So I'm just gonna start the way I wanted to start. In any case, I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for that. We have discussed Haarlem in the debate, and we have been able to conclude with the directors that it is totally unacceptable what happened there last weekend. In the end, I think we have also established that we should simply find the perpetrators of this. I also think that my group will certainly come back to this in the budget debate on Justice and Security. Mr. Chairman. I am, of course, pleased that the Secretary of State has personally visited my website, and that he has also found that there is room for improvement. In my opinion, I can only agree with the Secretary of State on this issue about the digital world. I do hope that the Secretary of State has liked my Facebook site when visiting my website at one of those pop-ups, because that is possible there, and that also works, as far as I know. I think my comment that I agree with him on the speed of my website is important, because I do support, on behalf of the VVD Group, the path taken by both leaders in relation to the digital government. We have seen in the debate that the rulers also see that things can be done better. If we do not want a separate ruler for digitisation, which we have talked about, there are still many improvements possible, even compared to the letter sent last week. So I think that if we start looking for a good way of working that fits with the problems that we sometimes face in the digital government, without creating a new authority or a bureaucratic papermoloch that is going to check other people or write reports from outside that cause projects to be fired, the VVD sees a very clear possibility at the state inspection finances. I don't think this is the place right now to work out what that government inspection finances is doing. It is important to note, however, that, as far as I can see, officials are also keen to work there, and that it is a sort of specialist corps that is very highly regarded. In short, the argument is that, although finances are not digitized, there are similarities. I think we all agree on that. I think that, although not all elements can be taken over one-on-one, there is still value in looking at how digitisation could be introduced into a state inspection. I would like to add that in this respect I do not depend on naming, the title. I do have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Ministry of Finance and the Finance Inspectorate play an important role in government-wide budget management and that the Ministry of the Interior has a national-wide role in the efforts to build a digital government;]] [[noting that, in the digitalisation exercise of the government, the optimal sharing of knowledge and skills is indispensable and that new methods and forms of cooperation within the government are required;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how a National Inspectorate for Digitisation, by analogy with the Rijksfinanciëninspectie, could be designed and to send the results of this investigation to the Chamber for the Annual Report on Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Middendorp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VII-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u64	I have a question about that motion. We have a rich tradition of research in this Chamber. Research sentiments are often seen as "the first step after," while both the Secretary of State and the Minister have indicated that they like the idea, but still have doubts. Now Mr Middendorp is submitting a research motion. I have sympathy for that. I also liked the other four points in Mr Middendorp's note. But if the research shows that another form, for example a lighter form, is better, is Mr Middendorp prepared to take over and not to say: no, we need to have this form now, because I have submitted a research motion and that was the first step in this direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u65	Mr Verhoeven knows me as someone who always likes to do research and does not know in advance what comes out of the investigation, so he can certainly count on it. This also applies to the next research motion, which I am about to submit on his behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u66	That second motion has my warm support, Mr President! That is a very solid motion! Thank you, and then I will really advise my group to vote in favour of the Middendorp motion and for this study, because I really like the ideas behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u67	Your second motion, Mr. Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u68	Whole elections are being fought online today, and in fact we know very little about the impact of new technology on our democracy and on our elections. I think we have seen a bit of that in the discussion we had here for lunch. Because it's not that simple to say what the influences of all these techniques are. The fact that there are positive and negative influences is certain and that people need to be aware of that, is also definitely for the VVD. But the motion that I would like to table is aimed at gaining some additional knowledge first. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas social media and internet search engines can influence our democratic rule of law and the threat of external influence is becoming more and more concrete;]] [[Whereas its scope and impact are not clear;]] [[believes that it is important for our democracy to have knowledge in the Netherlands of the possible positive and/or negative influence of social media and internet search engines;]] [[Calls on the Government to investigate the impact of social media and internet search engines on these elections in the Provincial State and European Parliament elections in 2019, including possible foreign influence and sharing the results with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Middendorp and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VII-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u69	Mr. Chairman. I started in the Thorbeckesal and I have found out that there is also an Old Hall. Should we ever find ourselves in such a situation again, I would just like to inform Mr Verhoeven that there is also an Old Room. I said in the Thorbeckezal that Thorbecke didn't know time or hour because he was working all day for the Netherlands. I see that in the rulers, too. I think that the issue of summer and winter time should not be missed, because I heard in the first term of the rulers that the mailbox was full. That has only become more to me after our first term. So I look forward to the position of the cabinet and the response to the proposal made by the European Commission. If I start placing the poll in time, it might come after the response to the chip. I wonder how the Cabinet sees that. I heard in the first term of office that it was about the questioning of the poll which would be important. I would like to add and give it to the Cabinet that, if you are going to do a survey on winter and summer time, it may also depend on when you do it. In winter people may feel very different about winter time than in summer. There are a number of questions that we will all have to answer. In replying to the cabinet's questions on summer and winter time, I saw that there is a lot of work going on and that consultation is taking place. The point I had in the first place was that the Chamber has some sort of function in it to monitor as representatives of the people that we are going through a good process. That also means that we have to look at it. Finally, on this point. The cabinet has indicated that it will seek information and discuss it with a number of countries in Europe. I wondered whether the list mentioned in the answer to the questions contained the number of countries or whether there could be more. I also asked for a letter in the first period with some broader considerations on this issue and how to reach a position on the European Union's deadline of 31 March 2019. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u70	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks. Oh, sorry. In consultation with my fellow Members, I give the floor to Mrs Kuiken because she then has a meeting on behalf of the Chamber and her club, for which I am happy to give her the space and certainly you too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u71	Mr. Chairman. Thank you so much. I would like to thank the directors for their reply. In a lot of things we could find each other and a lot of things are still going on. There's one thing I want guaranteed. I don't want a new official, but I want it to be less noncommittal. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the public authorities are increasingly communicating with citizens via digital means and providing services;]] [[Whereas not every citizen has the skills to use that digital government;]] [[Whereas the Council of State also points to the danger that citizens will suffer from further digitalisation in the public sector;]] [[considers that accessible digital assistance in neighbourhoods may be important to ensure that every citizen has access to the digital government;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how best to design and/or ensure "digital neighbourhood assistance" and to report on it to the Chamber before the summer of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VII-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u72	And he's trying to ask that question as soon as possible, because we're under time pressure. That neighborhood help was already agreed and was already funded. How do you see that? Should a system be rolled out before I consider supporting this motion, which is, by the way, quite sympathetic?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u73	No. But just as we have district agents and set standards for the number of district agents per district or per population, I also think you should have a standard when you say that everyone should have access to the digital government. 'Cause the government's gonna be digital. I want a little less practice and no commitment in that. I also want you to agree on how to ensure access for everyone, whether through the librarian or through the official at the town hall. I want there to be a little less commitment in it. That's why I formulated it in a moment, so that it's something you can finally grab and measure. Finally. Thorbecke went along with his time, but sometimes you also have to stop the time. You don't always have to decide. The same applies to summer and winter time. Keep our sultry summer nights and keep those mornings in the winter rush. Keep it the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u74	Mr Verhoeven has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u75	I am fine with the fact that the PvdA group wants to leave everything to the old. You can also think of a substantive story. Moreover, I do not think that we should have the discussion now. I won't. I do have a question. Suppose other countries around us go to an adjustment, does the PvdA keep saying: no, we have to stick to the old, because that's the best thing? Or does the PvdA still have room to align it as well as possible with the neighbouring countries? That seems to me to be an important, guiding principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u76	When we're in dance scenarios, we're gonna talk "if-then" again. You are now pretending to have one choice and that it is one choice or the other, while there is also a third choice: to keep as it is. This is not the first European priority. This has been thrown up as something we need to get right together, but I think there are other things more important: the climate, organised crime and the fact that labour is still under pressure. Please!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u77	I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u78	Fine!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u79	We don't have to talk about it, but Mrs. Kuik has brought it up herself in a loud tone. That is why I think it makes sense to ask a question about this. Yes, Europe needs to deal with migration and climate, and not with details at all, but if Europe makes a point of this and the Netherlands has to discuss it with other countries, I think it would be a good idea to agree with all of them rather than say: let's keep it as it is. Period. That's my only question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u80	My point is: the point is not there yet. So we don't have to choose one or the other. We could just say, "We're not gonna do that for a while." We're not gonna start a crazy referenda on a subject like this. I am very much in favour of referenda, but on other subjects. The European Commission has not said in vain that it will postpone the decision for a while. You can just go back on your feet. That would be my advice. For the rest, I would like to thank my fellow Members very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u81	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their detailed reply and commitment. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has launched experimental gardens experimenting with new forms of social return;]] [[Whereas the results of these experimental gardens can serve as good examples for fellow governments;]] [[calls on the Government to evaluate the testing grounds, to share the results with the co-governments and to inform the Court of Justice accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas steps have been taken to make the state purchasing policy more sustainable, setting standards for, among other things, circular procurement and social return;]] [[whereas, however, there is still a great deal of profit to be gained;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that national purchasing policies are as sustainable as possible and to report annually to the Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VII-16]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VII-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u83	Then my final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the national commemoration of the abolition of slavery is financed through various project grants;]] [[Whereas this creates uncertainty every year for the organisation of this commemoration and is not desirable for a commemoration of a national character;]] [[Calls on the Government to enter into consultation with the various project financers of this commemoration, to examine whether the funding of the National Slavery Remembrance on 1 July can be structurally embedded and inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 May 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VII-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u84	You should have waited until the motion was tabled by Mrs Den Boer. Thank you to the directors, the Minister and Secretary of State, for answering the questions. Also thank you for the commitment to respond positively to the proposal that D66 and we have made to launch an awareness campaign on disinformation and fake news. A deadline for the end of this year was asked to take us as a Chamber further into this plan. I think it is very good to put that on the agenda as a Chamber and to do something from the government to make people aware of everything that is happening online. I would also like to thank the Minister for the comments she has made on local governance and the flexibility that it should have. I would like to come back to two issues that were not raised, even after we had just been suspended. It was two subjects that I raised on behalf of the CDA. The first question I asked was about the differences that exist between governments in the area of tax remission. Municipalities apply their own standard, as well as water boards. In the Participation Act, we have written a standard with the Chamber. A standard is also included in the Recovery Act. That's where people get stuck. That is a bit of a red line in the remarks made by the Secretary of State. In this case, it is mainly people with a small grant who get a waiver from one government, which they urgently need, but not from the other. In the Minister's reply that we received on paper, it said that if we do something about it, people will get worse if they get more forgiveness and then work. I have to admit, this is definitely possible. But there are also innumerable people who, over a very long period of time, depend on a social minimum and who really should not be stuck because of the simple fact that we do not have our affairs in order with the different governments. I would nevertheless like to table a motion to which the Minister can respond. Well, then we'll just have to see how far we can get. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet is committed to a vigorous policy to combat debt problems;]] [[noting that the capital standards for tax waivers are different between governments;]] [[Whereas the Nibud indicates that reserving for unforeseen expenditure is wise for people on small incomes;]] [[Whereas low income individuals may be affected by differences between government schemes;]] [[Calls on the Government to consult with municipalities and water boards to jointly consider ways of better aligning property standards for remission, including the legal framework of the Recovery Act and Participation Act, and to inform the Chamber of the outcome of this by the summer of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VII-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u85	Did things go well in the bleachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u86	It went well, it was a chair that shook back a bit. There's nothing wrong. That gentleman doesn't want any more attention paid to it. Just carry on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u87	If things are going too wild in the place where the officials are, then something really happened. I'll bet you do. I had put another item on the agenda. That was the problem with municipal taxes, where social welfare institutions run into. I am talking, for example, about sports associations, scouting, playground associations, music associations and other organisations that get an izz-attack from their municipality. We can see that there is a great deal of uncertainty in the Netherlands about whether you can exempt this group of users of buildings from an ozb-attack. For this kind of association, an ozb-attack is quite considerable. That is why we have called for an option for municipalities to be included in the municipal law in order to exclude this group from ICI taxation. We think that then municipalities can decide for themselves whether or not to do so. In any case, we now see that many municipalities, through all kinds of subsidies, are again providing compensation for the ICI tax, which is in fact very complicated and unnecessary in terms of administrative commitment, and it is still a burden on these organisations, which we as CDA would like to avoid. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the real estate tax for sports associations, scouting associations, playground associations, music associations and other social interest organisations (sbbis) with their own accommodations is a significant burden;]] [[noting that some municipalities compensate associations for the ICI they pay;]] [[Whereas municipalities should be able to decide not to pay for their accommodations on the basis of their social interest;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals to amend the Municipal Law to allow municipalities to tax the accommodation of SGIs at the rate of housing in the ICI or to exempt the accommodation of SGIs entirely from ICI,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VII-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u88	Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw your attention to the enthusiasm shown by the Secretary of State for more exchange in border areas between young people living on different sides of the border. I think that will be very good, for the reasons mentioned by the Secretary of State: language, sport and culture. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that language problems and cultural differences hamper fruitful cross-border cooperation in the fields of education and the labour market;]] [[Whereas joint events for young people in the field of sport and culture across national borders can contribute to solving language problems and bridging cultural differences;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the border regions concerned, to promote cross-border events for young people in the field of sport and culture,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Molen, Mr Den Boer, Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Middendorp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VII-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u90	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Raak of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u91	Mr. Chairman. I must say that I find it very regrettable that in this Chamber one Member of Parliament accuses another Member of Parliament of racism, while that Member of Parliament does not give any reason to do so. It makes me sad, and I'm gonna stand back from that. Having said that, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Chamber has public registers for gifts received by Members of Parliament, traveling by Members of Parliament and by-jobs held by Members of Parliament;]] [[considers that disclosure of other financial interests of members, such as ownership of shares, can also contribute to the transparency of the House of Representatives;]] [[noting that other parliaments, such as those in Great Britain, Canada and Sweden, have all kinds of registers for reporting financial interests, including holdings of shares;]] [[calls on the Bureau to carry out an investigation for the purposes of a register for the reporting of financial interests, including the holding of shares,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VII-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u93	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Verhoeven, but I do not see him, so I shall give the floor to Mrs Den Boer, from D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u94	I would very much like to thank the Minister and Secretary of State for answering a range of questions on nevertheless very important issues, including very important issues such as resilience to undermining and crime in public administration, trust between citizens and government, diversity in politics and public administration, which we have just discussed, and the functioning of local democracy. I really think the Ministry's getting steamed. For the sake of enthusiasm and encouragement, I shall therefore table two motions. The first motion concerns an equipment fund, and I would very much like to point out that I would prefer to move towards structural cover for this. I'll read the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that council members experience virtually without exception a high workload in the performance of their council work;]] [[noting that research shows that 20% of municipalities do not budget group support for city council members, while group support is a legal right;]] [[Whereas a reinforced municipal registry and more group support are needed but municipalities themselves have been budgeting too little money for this;]] [[noting that the Netherlands Association for Council Members advocates the establishment of a national equipment fund that contributes to knowledge development and equipment of city council members and municipal councils, from which (additional) budget can be allocated to municipal councils and Registrys that work on the training and equipment of city council members;]] [[invites the government, together with the VNG, the Dutch Association for Council Members and the political party directors' associations, to sit down to work on a national equipment fund, including the possibility of individual drawing rights for municipal council members, and to report on this to the Chamber in the spring note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Boer and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VII-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u95	We have a coalition MP here, a Member of Parliament, who, for a minute, reads a motion that the Minister ultimately asks to table with a number of organisations, to come up with a proposal after six months that we can deal with here in two years' time. And then she says: the Ministry is on steam, we do good work. Is this it? There are motions asking the Minister to go to the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u96	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u97	My question is: these are not deeds, are they? If that's what you think, come up with an amendment or a motion. We'll support them. Then those council members can get that support already.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u98	We had a brief exchange of views on this last Tuesday. In my view, Mr Öztürk and I very much agree that local democracy needs support, given the enormous challenges that local councils are facing, among other things. I can also see that there are many players involved in this. It just costs a little money. I would very much like to leave this with the Minister. I'm about to see the Minister's judgment. And then we'll see how we get on this front.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u99	Pretty "a little money," she says. 1.9 billion has been released. As a D66 group, you can claim a few million dollars for those council members, right? At least. Do you try your own role... Well, I really don't get it. Have you just become a party that can only table a motion that the government requests to go to the table? Or do you really want to support those council members? That's my question. Is it: we have asked the Minister and we will see if there is anything we can do? Or is it: we don't have the guts, we don't have the money or we don't get it? Say it!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u100	Of course, I would also like to urge the Minister to act and not just to stick to words, but I really want the Minister himself to take that space, with the municipal councils, with the VNG and so on. I think it would be very useful if Mr Öztürk himself could table a motion on this point. Of course, that would always be possible. That's totally open to him. My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that making a mistake in communication with the government is human and can happen to everyone without being directly malicious;]] [[whereas the right to make mistakes is justified once you are allowed to make a mistake without a penalty being imposed immediately, but this error must be corrected on the basis of public confidence in the citizen;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State for the Interior at national level has the right to make mistakes;]] [[Whereas there is also an interest in experimenting with this in municipalities;]] [[calls on the government to inform municipalities about the possibility of misusing the right to introduce locally and to remove any obstacles to it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Boer and Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VII-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u101	Thank you, Mr President. As far as I am concerned, it was a nice two-part budget debate. It started in the Thorbeckezal and today it is here in the plenary. I must say, however, that I think that budgetary treatment has been really distraught by the scandalous attack of the PVV colleague. He accused my party of racism when we were discussing a proposal for more diversity in the government. I must say that I find it unacceptable. I want to say that again. I just turned it in, too. With regard to the content of this debate, I would like to thank the delegation of the cabinet, in the form of the Secretary of State and the Minister for the Interior. Thanks for the answer. I welcome the steps that are now being taken. On this point, I would like to join Mr Van der Molen and Mr Middendorp. Indeed, there is now a broader soil than last year in the field of disinformation. I think that the campaign leading up to the elections in 2019 and the investigation during the elections are a nice combination of two initiatives from this Chamber. We've seen the threat is serious. With regard to the digital government, I am also positive; the Secretary of State knows that. However, there are improvements that I have highlighted in my first term in the field of the online environment and in the areas of government and ICT. There's not enough openness. Then it's not just about open source, but also about algorithms. I also mentioned the insecurity of data. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is digitalising and the government is involved;]] [[noting that the government embraces technology but can strengthen its starting points;]] [[calls on the government to focus more on the following five principles in shaping the digital administration: humanity, transparency, expertise, flexibility, and data protection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u102	I see we have a minute left. That's beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u103	I think your colleagues are very happy about that. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u104	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the rulers for the comprehensive answers in the first term. Mr. Chairman. In the first period, I myself argued that policy effects on shrinking regions should be taken into account in advance, because we regularly see that it is harmful and that this was not in the picture in advance. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas regional tailor-made work for shrinking regions is necessary in the areas of housing market, labour market, education, care and mobility, and that generic legislation and regulation in these areas is frequently detrimental;]] [[considers that it is desirable that laws and regulations that are disproportionately detrimental to shrinking regions should be early identified, so that regulatory action can be made appropriate in advance for the regional context;]] [[calls on the government to prepare a regional check for new policies and new laws and regulations, with the aim of making the impact on shrinking regions understandable and allowing regional tailor-made work to strengthen economy and viability,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u105	The remuneration of council members in small municipalities should be increased structurally. That must be done very quickly. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas council members from smaller municipalities up to 24,000 inhabitants receive compensation which is disproportionate to their tasks;]] [[having noted that the Minister of the Interior has once released an amount of EUR 10 million in the 2018 budget to provide additional support to these Council members;]] [[calls on the government to enter into consultation with the VNG for a structural increase in remuneration for council members in municipalities to 24,000 inhabitants and to seek cover for this within the Municipal Fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Van der Molen, Mr Middendorp, Mr Den Boer, Mr Bisschop and Mr Özütok.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VII-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u106	Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased that I have speaking time left on a subject which I, together with colleagues Van der Molen and Van Haga, have drawn attention to for the summer: the recovery of aircraft wrecks from the Second World War. We have asked for a national recovery programme to be drawn up for budgetary treatment, and we have succeeded in doing so. I am very pleased with the result and the careful impact of it. In doing so, we do justice to the wishes of survivors of World War II kites who were killed and we can pay our respects to these kites. It is also significant, as the Minister writes, with a view to commemorating 75 years of liberation by 2020. I am pleased that the VNG, the flight crew officer, but also the Air War Study Group, are involved in the implementation of this. My question is only: when will they start their work and what is the timetable that goes with this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u107	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me also begin by saying that I find it wrong and disgusting that one Member of Parliament is a racist person without any reason to do so. Let me say that. I have three motions. One is handwritten with fountain pen and the other two with the most modern ICT resources. First, the craft motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that artificial grass recycling companies systematically seek and violate the limits of environmental legislation and that local authorities have not adequately monitored and enforced them;]] [[Whereas this again demonstrates that local authorities are insufficient to cope with companies that are not so close to environmental legislation;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the Empire can take back the direction of tackling environmental crime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that EUR 200 million is being invested in a warm clean-up of pig farming in congested areas;]] [[noting that authorisations for the construction of new pig housing are still being granted in these areas;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a moratorium on the construction of new mega-stales in congested areas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VII-28]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VII-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u109	My final motion, Chairman: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for years municipalities and provinces have granted permits for new pig stables;]] [[noting that certain areas are now overburdened in such a way that the Empire has to allocate EUR 200 million of taxpayers' money for a warm clean-up of pig farming, but that there is no analysis of how this situation could have arisen;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an evaluation of the livestock authorisation process, including whether there has been undue authorisation or too wide environmental standards or rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u111	Thank you. Mr Krol has indicated that he does not need a second term. His questions have been answered. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u112	Thank you, Mr President. I could also have waived a second-term response, but the good parliamentary mores actually require that you thank the directors for the proper answer to the questions. I would also like to do that, since it is both the written reply and the oral reply. I would also like to include the staff of the two directors in that thank you. That alone is sufficient reason to speak. I do not have any motions, so that is why I could have waived a second term. Why don't I have any motions? Because there are a number of things that are clearly going on, as the Minister has explained. They will come to a report or a message to the Chamber at any time, in the foreseeable future. A number of commitments have also been made, which I very much appreciate. I'm relying on that, and I'm refusing an additional motion. Once again, my thanks to the rulers. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u113	Thank you. Mr Krol has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u114	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I just wanted to express my thanks to the rulers. Well, at least that's what we've had.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u115	Look, it's nice to get Mr. Krol's approval. I appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u116	Exactly, a generous gesture, including thanks to all the officials. I saw: he looked at them. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Öztürk of Denk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u117	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first is intended to support council members in small municipalities. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that council members in small municipalities sometimes receive less than €400 compensation, while their workload does not differ much from council members in large municipalities, who receive more than €2,000;]] [[noting that the Dutch Association for Council Members calls for the remuneration of council members in small municipalities;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the possibility of a structural increase in the remuneration of council members in small municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u118	We just had an exchange in which you spoke to my colleague from the Christian Union because she would have tabled a motion without anything at all. It'd be some kind of empty promise. Now you are tabling a motion which states 'want to see if', while the Christian Union has tabled a motion with the support of the Chamber to simply regulate it and, moreover, to cover it. That's gonna be a case of the pot blaming the kettle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u119	This is also the role of the opposition. I challenged the coalition and then they thought behind the plush: well, we really have to do something, otherwise we'll be really embarrassed. Then they came up with that motion, but that doesn't mean I have to abandon my motion. This shows how serious I think that there should be structural money. This is a win-win situation, Mr. Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u120	Yeah, you know, that's how someone's trying to wipe his street clean. You just yelled at everyone two days in a row: it's an empty promise; you don't fix it. Other parties fix it. You had your chance. It is a completely unnecessary motion and no councilman in a small town buys a jota for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u121	You can see Mr. Van der Molen is still new in the Chamber. The role of the opposition in the Chamber is to challenge and establish the coalition and then ensure that it happens. I hope that it will happen next week in the votes and until then I will show society and all the council members in society how we, as DENK, are in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u122	We usually do it in two, but you were addressed personally. You can respond to this very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u123	Thank you, Mr Öztürk, for the compliment that at least I haven't turned into a gray record yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u124	Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u125	Whether that's a compliment, I don't know. But I do know that you still have a lot to learn. Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are regular integrity issues surrounding people's representatives, which undermines confidence in politics;]] [[Considers that good integrity testing at an early stage can prevent many integrity issues;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the possibility of releasing resources for political parties so that they can carry out an integrity check prior to the candidacy of future elected representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u126	I would like to give the floor to the Minister for her appreciation of the motions and any questions she wishes to address. As I have seen, 20 motions have been tabled, one of which is addressed to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u127	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u128	So you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u129	A number of motions are addressed to me and some to the Secretary of State. If I skip a number, the Secretary of State will go into that after me. Two questions have also been asked to me. To begin with, I would like to make just one comment, namely that we started this debate so unanimously in the first term, when everyone talked about the threat to the mayor of Haarlem. At that time, we saw from left to right that the Chamber too was one man, one woman behind the mayor. I really liked to see that. It was the same unity I tasted in Haarlem last Sunday. But now, of course, the debate is not always there to be united, and that is also what we have seen today. I have listened carefully to Mr Bosma to see if he might have had a question for me as well. That was not the case. It was only one major hyperbola, in my opinion, with the intention of seeking the political pain threshold of some parties. Mr. Chairman. The two questions that were asked to me were about summer and winter time. A question was put by Mr Middendorp. I think we've already said to each other: yes, no matter how you ask the question. It matters when you ask the question. It doesn't matter how much knowledge people have on the subject. I would almost say that climate change may also have an impact on this subject, because a good friend of mine, who is birthday on 16 October, said to me last week "I had my birthday in the autumn." It was 26°C that day. These are justified points made by Mr Middendorp and I have just said that we are going to take them into account in that poll. We are going to ensure that people have sufficient information and that this point is also taken into account. It is true what Mr Middendorp said about the timetable, namely that the timetable originally foreseen by the European Commission is extremely ambitious. The cabinet will come forward with a reaction towards Brussels and I can assure Mr Middendorp that we will also draw attention to this, because it seems extremely quick to move ahead next year. The other question was from Mrs Van der Graaf. She pointed out that, thanks to a fine initiative by three MPs from three parties, the Christian Union, the CDA and the VVD, we have indeed agreed on the recovery of aircraft wrecks from the Second World War. She asked when we thought we could start. I hope and expect that the salvages will take place in 2019. After that, of course, it will have a much longer term. We have also talked about this for probably about ten years. Mr. Chairman. I'll get to the motions now. The first motion is that in part No. 13, in which Mr Middendorp comes back to his suggestion in his five-point plan for a state inspection digitization. It is a research motion, Mr Verhoeven pointed that out, but research is very focused on how a state inspection could be designed. I hope he has also heard in my first term that I see his five-point plan in itself as a support for the policy that the Secretary of State and I used in our letter of 11 October, but that we are not in favour of a new control tower, that we are not in favour of an entirely IRF-based structure and that there are also legal problems to do it in this way. In fact, I would like to ask Mr Middendorp whether he would not like to look again at the wording of that motion. I think she's very focused right now. It does not leave open the possibility of concluding that a national inspection is a less appropriate instrument and that would entail too much control burden. Mr Middendorp could reformulate his motion to create more space. As it stands, I'm not very excited about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u130	I understand that. Not that the Minister would not be enthusiastic about that, but what the question is. I propose to make it "requests the government to investigate whether and how." Then I think we are a long way away, because then, certainly in conjunction with Mr Verhoeven's remark, there is really a lot of room to do a good research and then talk about it later in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u131	I had hoped that Mr Middendorp would say that he thought the word 'or' was sufficient: whether a national inspection could be carried out by analogy. That seemed like a good fallback position to me. I thought I heard him say two more words back there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u132	He'll still have to change the motion in writing if he wants to change her. Then the colleagues can take a look at it. Mr. Middendorp?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u133	I think I said "or so," because the word "how" was already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u134	Yes. My suggestion would be: 'I think that Mr Middendorp is going to reformulate it, and I am glad and also grateful for the fact that at least there will be 'or'. That's enough for me. Then it can "and how" as far as I'm concerned. We'll see the modified motion. If we had a modified motion, we would be better off. Again, we're gonna do all the other things we've announced anyway. Then we could explore this option. But I would have to see the amended motion first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u135	In a modified form, the judgment could indeed be left to the Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u136	In a modified form, the judgment could indeed be left to the Court. Then the motion to part No. 14, also by Mr Middendorp. It's about social media and search engines. For the sake of speed, don't let me walk through the whole content again. I think this is very similar to what I said in the written reply. We're gonna do these tests, and I'll share the outcome of the investigation with the Chamber. I could, with the consent of the authors, take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u137	Does anyone object to taking over this motion? No. Oh, yeah. Mr Middendorp may wish to see it put to the vote. Talk to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u138	Well, I suppose I can say this on behalf of the co-author Verhoeven. I just heard in the debate that this study would also be included in the letter on the awareness campaign. I have a bit of an idea that the Chamber would therefore be included in what this investigation would look like in the elections to the Provincial States and the European Parliament. So I think it is a good thing that the motion should be taken over, but then we should skip that step right away. I would therefore like to suggest that we simply put her to the vote and that we should include that piece on what that research would look like in the letter on the awareness campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u139	That is entirely up to the proposers. In that case, it is: Judgment Chamber. And I've already promised to come back to this whole palette before the end of the year. (NL) Mr President, I am then in favour of the motion for a resolution on item No. 16, by Mrs Özütok. In fact, I think it is a very good proposal. As far as I am concerned, I am taking her over, unless the author feels otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u140	Minister and Members of Parliament, I would like to remind you that our system has failed. We have a sublime stenographer in our midst who is now going to give the report a shortcut in the original way. So I'm going to ask the Minister to be our Stenographic Service as short as possible and not too soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u141	Mr President, I am going to do my best, because I do see black screens in front of me. The motion in part No. I therefore believe that 16 may be taken over from the author. Yeah, I see her nodding. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 17. It also belongs to Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks. This motion is about government purchasing policy and sustainable purchasing. This is a motion that I am actually very pleased with because it focuses on sustainable procurement. I could imagine taking over the motion, I say to Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u142	Mrs Özütok says yes. She's got another addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u143	If the Minister can also set a deadline, I am very pleased.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u144	I assure you that we will report annually, as stated in the motion. I'll do that through the Annual Reporting Company Rich. Speaking from my mind, it's just in the spring with the accounts. So that's the deadline. The motion in part No. Mrs Özütok's 18 is about the commemoration of slavery. I would like to explore with the colleagues of OCW and SZW the possibilities for what Mrs Özütok wants, namely a structural embedding of funding. BZK is not the only department involved. However, I would like to assure Mrs Özütok that she will do the reconnaissance and inform the Chamber accordingly. From this she may deduce that I am in favour of the subject matter of this motion. I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u145	The motion in part No. 18 gets judgment Chamber. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u146	The subject of the motion in part No. 19, by Mr Van der Molen, we actually took off in writing. But Mr Van der Molen came back to it in the second term. I think the subject is very relevant. I believe that in June, so before the summer, he received a letter on this matter from four rulers. He mentioned that in his term just now. The issue of poverty falls into this context. So I can go a long way with the author, but I would point out to him that it is an extremely complicated issue to resolve. He formulates the motion with a "how." How can we better coordinate that? I want to do my best, but I can't guarantee it'll work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u147	I deduce from that that the motion could get "judge chamber." I understand it's a difficult task, but it's really necessary. So if the Minister says he wants to make an effort to try to reach out to other ministries involved if he so wishes, then I would be very happy. So I think the Minister's approach is very good and I am very glad that we can vote on it here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u148	Yes, Mr Van der Molen is listening very carefully. I am prepared to look with the colleagues in SZW and Finance at the advantages and disadvantages of harmonisation. However, I would like to make the point that it is extremely difficult, and I would like to make that observation to the Chamber. That's a little harder on his next motion, the motion in part no. 20. It is actually about differentiation in the specific area mentioned in the motion. The current law provides sufficient room for this differentiation. I have also received no signals from the municipalities that this is necessary. I would almost say, therefore, that what is proposed in the motion does not have to be done, because that can already be done. That would make the motion unnecessary, but we agreed not to do so anymore. That is why I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u149	Which, of course, is very unfortunate, because we see in practice that many municipalities are making a detour. If it were so easy for the minister to make it appear, these municipalities would be included in their tax regulations in a simple sense, which would be excluded. We'll see that happen in practice. We have seen cases ourselves, but very often the municipality on request indicates that they are, for example, facilities whose buildings are under the administration and ownership of the municipality. This is what you see on the buildings that aren't. I would therefore very much like to hear from the Minister at least that she would be able to have this checked out for the Chamber, so that we could then possibly take a next step. If I could get that commitment, I could still hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u150	I think that's a good deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u151	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u152	I am going to try to find out if Mr Van der Molen continues his motion in return. I am sure we will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u153	At the request of Mr Van der Molen, I propose his motion (35000-VII, No. 20). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u154	Then I'm gonna jump to the motion at piece number one. 22. That is a motion by Mrs Den Boer on the equipment fund, also signed by Mrs Van der Graaf. I'd like to give this motion a ruling, Chamber. We talked about that. I also said that I understand the thought well. I also said that I would come back to the whole issue of support in the spring anyway. In doing so, I would like to leave the vote on the motion to the House. The motion in part No. 26 is the only motion I need a slightly longer run for. I will try not to do so too quickly, in view of the system and the stenography. The motion concerns shrinking regions and the so-called regional check. I argued in my first term that there are great differences in the Netherlands and that we have to take account of those differences in our policies and in legislation. We are also increasingly seeing that from here and from the regions we are also going to work area-oriented. Perhaps I could give an example, in an attempt to convince Mrs Van der Graaf of what I am going to suggest. One example is that we have seen in the Wadden Islands that, after VAT was introduced for wadden feathers, it became more expensive for the inhabitants of the Wadden Islands to come to the mainland, where there are often necessary facilities for them. That could be about care, about education or about work. I recently made a proposal to solve that problem for the wadden inhabitants. In the meantime, the municipalities have informed me that they are very happy with this solution. I say this in order to illustrate that there is also real attention from the cabinet to specific problems, wishes, bottlenecks in specific regions, even if they are more difficult regions. But to do a regional check that is equal in all shrinking regions is actually the wrong route, I think. This creates additional administrative burdens. I do not think that is really going to help us in our area-based approach. That is actually how I read the motion as it is now before me. Maybe I'm interpreting her a little too strict, but for that reason, I don't think this motion is the right incentive. Perhaps Mrs Van der Graaf would like to reformulate the motion. However, as the motion is now before us, I must advise against it, while I believe that we share the objectives of the shrinking regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u155	I do not hear from the Minister a suggestion for a rewording. I'd like to think about that. I think it is a good example that you give: in the Wadden Islands, the VAT increase was negative and we are going to see if we can compensate for that. The point I'm making is, maybe we could've gotten this figured out in advance. There had also been an example in the education debate about the new funding system for secondary education. This is now being compensated afterward. So I see that we do stick some patches afterwards, but you want to have those effects in front of you. I have formulated the motion in such a way as to allow the government to formulate an executable regional check. You don't have to put it on too heavy. Put the right effects in the picture at the right time and then see if you need to take appropriate measures. During the first period, I received the Minister's reply that she is still working on the Action Plan on Population Reduction and will return to that. I think it would be very good if the Minister, when she is working on this Action Plan, also gave a place to the development of a form of a regional check, whether or not in consultation with the provinces. That should also connect...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u156	What's your question? I'm gonna watch the time. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u157	I would be sorry if we did not accept this, when we see that this issue is recurring in many areas. So I'm giving the government room for this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u158	I had hoped that the motion could be reworded. Once again, I do not want bureaucracy, I want the same thing as Mrs Van der Graaf, namely that we work area-oriented and preferably not afterwards with patches but by having the conversation with each other in advance. We have already put in place an integral balancing framework to ensure that new policies and legislation always take account of their impact. I think it really fits in there and is enough. I insist that there is no need for extra bureaucracy. Perhaps it is an idea, then, to hold the motion until we return, following the commitment I made, to the policy on shrinking regions and the decline in population.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u159	Thank you. A Member of Parliament may consider holding a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u160	I'm gonna think about that. So it's not an extra bureaucracy. Connecting to the area-oriented policy seems very good to me, but the important thing is that you have the effects in full play. It has just turned out that this is not the case at the moment. There is an integral balancing framework, but this is not being considered. That is why this motion is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u161	Mr President, I think it would be best to continue with the motion on item No. 27. The first signatory is also Mrs Van der Graaf here. The motion is about a fee to council members in smaller municipalities. I interpret the motion in such a way that we find the same thing, namely that in the small municipalities with less than 24,000 inhabitants we want to align the remuneration with that in the municipalities with 24,000 to 40,000 inhabitants. I share that bet. I also share the idea that I have also argued in the first term that there is enough room in the Municipal Fund to increase this structuralally. I would like to conclude the discussion with the VNG and I will inform the Chamber about the outcome by the end of the year. I'd like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 28 Mr Wassenberg asked the government to examine how the Empire could take control of the fight against environmental crime again. I have more to offer than Mr Wassenberg, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Wassenberg is now being replaced. I am not in favour of further recentisation of this approach and therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 29: a moratorium on the construction of new mega-stables. I really think it is a motion that belongs to the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. I think that's what the Chamber's gonna be talking about in two weeks. I would say hold the motion until that budget debate. The same applies to the motion in part No. 30 on the authorisation of livestock farming. There are environmental standards: the IenW budget. There are agricultural aspects: the LNV budget. Actually, it belongs there and not here. The motion in part No. 31 belongs to Mr Öztürk. Of course, I welcome his support for the remuneration of council members in the small municipalities, but I have just commented in detail on the other motion, which also provides for cover. This motion does not do so and I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mr Öztürk's 32 talks about means for political parties to carry out an integrity check. I am glad that DENK also thinks it is a good idea to do an integrity check and to leave it to political parties as well. That is exactly what I think, but, of course, there are already facilities for political parties. Also on the basis of funding from the Political Parties Finance Act, a subsidy is given for recruitment, selection and guidance. I believe that this task should be financed from it. So although we agree on the intention, I'm afraid I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u162	Thank you. Mr Öztürk hurried forward on the previous motion, so perhaps he already wanted to say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u163	The cover for the first motion is the Municipal Fund. The municipalities themselves are actually about whether they want to give their money to that or not. So that's making a little councilman happy with their own money. The Minister refers at the second motion, the motion on recruitment and selection, to the Law financing political parties. I would advise you to dive into that law again with your officials. Then you will see that not much money is made available to look more closely at the integrity and to be able to really investigate all those candidates, there are thousands and even tens of thousands of people in some parties. You can't tell me that the money made available for that is enough to check all those candidates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u164	I just said that I think it is very important for political parties to do so. I do not think that this is a huge financial increase in the burden that political parties already have on selection, but that it is actually part of doing a good selection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u165	I simply note that the Minister has not read himself very carefully on that point. Compared to all the countries around us, political parties get the least. We only get €1 per voter. That means we have to do all those integrity tests. I would once again recommend to the Minister that we look very carefully at the availability of resources and whether they are really enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u166	That doesn't change my judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u167	Thank you. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, Mr Middendorp's remark that room for improvement is necessary and possible, including on his own website. I can wholeheartedly support that, because I can only continue on his website if I like his Facebook site. If I don't want to do that, I'm gonna have to do all kinds of hard work outside the screen. Maybe he can take a look at that. Unless that was the target, but I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u169	Team-Middendorp is working hard every day to keep its website accessible to everyone. That's actually what we're working on. But my question wasn't whether the Secretary of State had been on my website. He already told me. My question was whether you also liked my Facebook site. That can indeed be done by an interesting pop-up. I'll leave my question as to whether you liked my Facebook site and I'll at least take this exchange of views with me. I'll make it clearer how you click it away, because it doesn't necessarily mean that the Facebook site is being licked. The pop-up can also be clicked away, but that's not clear enough, so I'm gonna get started on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u170	It's a bit of a detail, Mr. Chairman, but to click it away, you have to adjust the screen completely in shape. So you're almost forced to like him. I say to Mr Middendorp that I like him when he makes sure that also the ability not to like him clearly comes into view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u171	I'm gonna stop this paper. I'll do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u172	Mr. Chairman, may I...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u173	Do you have a question about what the Secretary of State says?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u174	Oh, yeah. I have a question about what the Secretary of State says. The border app is only available by website and I notice to the Secretary of State that he has visited my website by phone. My website doesn't work very well on phones. I ask the Secretary of State if he has looked into whether this might be the case with the information that border information points publish, because in my opinion that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u175	I'll see about that. I haven't done that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u176	Good. You have that promise again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u177	I come to an assessment of the motions. First of all, the motion in part No. 15 by Mrs Kikken and Mrs Özütok, inviting the government to consider how best to design digital neighbourhood support. I will come back with a response to my plan of approach inclusion. That'll be before the end of the year. I will take a number of initiatives into account. I think this is an interesting suggestion, but in the operative part as it is now, it is asked to consider how this neighbourhood aid can be designed, so it is assumed that it should be done everywhere. I have indicated in the debate that it is really a choice menu as far as I am concerned. Municipalities and other bodies can choose how best to do this. I don't want to make that happen. So if the motion stays the way it is, I'm gonna dissuade her. If the motion is modified, I could give a different verdict...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u178	Ms. Özütok nods and looks at it and...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u179	... although I find the idea sympathetic, as I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u180	Thank you. We're gonna change the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u181	Then the motion to part No. 21 of the members Van der Molen, Den Boer, Van der Graaf and Middendorp. It invites the Government, in consultation with the border regions concerned, to promote cross-border events for young people in the field of sport and culture. That motion I can give "judge chamber." Then the motion to part No. 23 by Mrs Den Boer and Mr Van der Molen, in which the government is asked to inform municipalities about the possibilities of wronging the right to introduce locally and to remove any obstacles to this. I have already promised that there will be a round table which will include municipalities. I would not like to limit it to municipalities, as I indicated in the debate. Anyway, I assume that Mrs Den Boer can endorse that, also in view of her reaction. If so, I can take over this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u182	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u183	Finally, the motion for a resolution on item No. 24, member Verhoeven, in which the government is asked to put five principles more at the centre of the design of the digital government. This is extremely sympathetic and largely in line with what we have already said, including in the agenda NL DIGIBERT. If I may see this as not exhaustive, then I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I see Mr Verhoeven nodding in agreement, so it is "judgement chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u184	For the sake of completeness, the Secretary of State has indicated that he is proposing the Den Boer/Van der Molen motion in part No. 23 to be taken over. Anybody mind? It seems to me that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-16.u185	We shall vote on the motions after the recess and on the amendments later. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes because the Stenographic Service wants to see what's going on with their system.
