ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the European Summit on 13 and 14 December 2018. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and I will give Mrs Leijten the floor as the first speaker on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is never a boring moment when it comes to the European Union. Of course, everyone knows what I'm talking about. Not a minute or an hour goes by, or there's breaking news from the UK again. Of course, that is what the forthcoming summit is about, but not just about that. In addition to all the great chaos that we are seeing and the great uncertainty for residents of the United Kingdom, and certainly also for residents of other countries of the European Union, there is a great deal on the agenda to be decided, and we see that the train is pervasive and pervasive. Unfortunately, I cannot ask questions about all the points. That is why I shall initially confine myself to the Brexit. We have already discussed the withdrawal agreement here. Then I asked the Prime Minister why the European Union came to this impossible deal. We actually knew in advance that it would not be acceptable. The final outcome, if there is no trade agreement in the interim period, is that the United Kingdom must change the border. Should that now be the outcome of the negotiations in the European Union, I have asked the Prime Minister. What scope can the EU now give Prime Minister May to get through this agreement? Everyone says there's no room to reopen the negotiations. I say to myself: saying that no negotiations are possible is also a form of negotiation. I saw Prime Minister May's press conference this morning. She says she made "progress" yesterday, that she made progress in the visits to Prime Minister Rutte, Chancellor Merkel and the gentlemen in Europe. But what exactly happens when the remaining 27 countries of the EU start talking about what should happen to the United Kingdom? I would like to know that from the Prime Minister, because the letter we received this morning does not answer that. And what happened in Brussels on 3 and 4 December? The Minister of Finance has arrested the boxing glove and he has concluded a coalition in Europe. Very good. The French Finance Minister was openly furious about this. Well, then you're doing something when it comes to relationships. I said I liked seeing a finance minister at the barricade. Of course, that appeals to a SP, but what happened in those eighteen hours of boxing between Minister Hoekstra and the French Finance Minister, Le Maire? Afterwards they were both super satisfied with the outcome, while they did not agree with each other in advance. The Dutch Finance Minister says that there will be a household pot from the euro area countries, the so-called euro area budget, but that it is a very small household pot and that it is not about stabilisation. So that means that we are not going to save countries from that household pot when things are going badly. The stabilisation function must absolutely not be allowed in and would have been negotiated out. However, the report by the European Finance Ministers states that the Heads of Government are going to decide on the household pot, how it will work and how big that will be. And the stabilisation function will certainly be discussed again. Do I have to conclude from this that the Minister of Finance lost the game and got a black eye at that eighteen-hour boxing match? That can happen, but be honest about it. If the Minister of Finance says here that he has fought and that he has won, even if Rutte has to sign with the cross, then our Prime Minister will come back with a black eye, while the Minister of Finance has contracted it. Or is the discussion going to take place all over again between the Heads of Government? Then I ask Minister Hoekstra if he has taught the Prime Minister to fight a little better than he did in those eighteen hours? We do not want that euro area budget, not even the part of the multiannual budget that is currently under negotiation. That is the next subject on which I would like to put some questions to the Prime Minister. The current EU President, Austria, has produced a negotiating document. It's still classified, so I can't quote from that. I won't, but I do have some questions. It is, by the way, a 50-page document. Then how do you keep an overview of exactly what negotiations are going on and what is the state of play on which chessboards? If you still have that overview, by the way, I think it's pretty good. The negotiating document sets out what subjects are being negotiated and what subjects are no longer being negotiated. Can the Prime Minister pledge to the Chamber that there is simply still room for negotiation about the removal of discounts for large net contributors? If we say that the future multi-annual budget must be fair to all countries, then do you have to keep some kind of emergency stop as discounts? Does the Prime Minister say that this remains part of the negotiations on the multiannual budget? We know that the European Commission wants more taxes to become part of the multiannual budget. "Own resources" is then called. However much I see a transaction tax, I do not think that it should necessarily be decided there. That's what you should do all over the world. It has clearly been said about these taxes that we, the Netherlands, are not really waiting for more taxes to be imposed from Brussels. Can the Prime Minister promise me that new taxes can still be negotiated? I'd love to hear that from him. Then there's the last topic I'd like to talk about. That is about the question of who is allowed to make rules and who is about policy? It's called subsidiarity, with a difficult word. In other words, are we dealing with certain policy areas ourselves or is Brussels always in charge there? We have said procedurally that we believe that we should be able to assess and send back a proposal from Brussels. That is now eight weeks ahead and the stakes are that it will be twelve weeks. In the discussion on this, last time with Minister Blok, I also asked him: should we not turn it around? If there is a proposal from Brussels, it should not be the Dutch Parliament, or the German Parliament, or the Finnish Government: hoho, Brussels should not be the boss here, we want to send it back. The European Commission needs to demonstrate that it has the right to take charge in this area. I have tabled a motion on this and I would like to put it to the vote. I want the Prime Minister, in this debate on subsidiarity, to put the reverse route on the agenda when it comes to demonstrating whether Brussels should be the boss in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Mr Tony van Dijck has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u4	I have a question on a motion by Mr Merkies, co-signed by Mr Van Bommel, Mr Slob and Mrs Thieme. It states: does not ask the government to agree to agreements that could lead to a budgetary capacity for the euro area. That motion made it. Does Mrs Leijten think that this motion is being carried out by the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u5	There is a lot of fake news, and fake news is of course very bad, especially when it comes from abroad and with it elections or countries are destabilised. This could also be fake news from our own finance minister. He says that he has won the boxing contest and that it is a very small euro area budget, which would not be about stabilisation, while the reports of the Council of Finance Ministers reflect that this is on the agenda. Then you have to conclude that the motion is not being carried out. I just asked those questions because I'm in the dark. How can this minister say that I've fought and I've won? How can the French Finance Minister, Le Maire, say that? While they were so diametrically disagreed. I think that our finance minister has taken a bit of a piss, but I would like to hear his explanation of that. As soon as he's let himself be fooled, the Merkies motion becomes c.s. Indeed not carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, we have hardly been able to hear the news that the vote in the British Parliament did not take place, now that we have been given the news that perhaps the position of the British Prime Minister is so uncertain that it will not reach the end of the day. In the meantime, it is not clear, and that is perhaps the most serious thing about this whole issue of which the British Government is actually after. Buying time so there won't be room to say no? Buying votes in the House of Commons so that there will soon be a majority for the current agreement? Or a serious attempt at renegotiation? That cannot be the case, Juncker and Tusk said at first, and now the Dutch cabinet is very explicit about this. My question to the Prime Minister about this is actually: what exactly is it, or is it something that would be very nice to have the space between renegotiating, what we do not want, clarifying, what we can do, and helping the British Prime Minister get the deal through the House of Commons, which I heard somewhere? Somewhere in between, it will have to happen in the near future, and I wonder if the Prime Minister can shed some light on that point. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, what we always call a hard Brexit of course comes closer and closer, and with that also the question what this means for the Netherlands. The report of the Court of Auditors published last week dealt, among other things, with the consequences of a hard Brexit. Proposed additional direct costs: 2.3 billion. I don't think that's entirely unexpected. The question is whether the Prime Minister sees it that way. Customs is also not fully ready. This observation is justified in itself, says the Cabinet in a response to the Court's report. And it is unclear how preparations are going in business. I read in the Court's report that only 10% of companies doing business with the United Kingdom are actively preparing for the consequences of a hard Brexit. That's very little. Is that how the Prime Minister sees it? And what can he do to improve that preparation? On this point, I do have some questions about the preparations of our own departments, because I do not necessarily hear encouraging stories from colleagues from various committees of Parliament. At one department last week, the committee asked the Minister to take a look at it. At another committee, JenV, my colleague Buitenweg proposed yesterday that we also look at the effects of a Brexit. Another department seems to have an emergency plan, but the Chamber doesn't see it. Shouldn't there be a scoop on top, I'd like to ask the Prime Minister. And is there enough direction? Will the Prime Minister give the Chamber an insight into the state of preparations and the implications of a Brexit, hard or soft, for the government? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to our relationship with Russia, also a topic on the agenda of the European summit. We have talked recently with the Foreign Minister about Russia's aggression by the Azov Sea. Unfortunately, it is necessary to extend the sanctions until July 2019. We also read that in the annotated agenda. I ask the Prime Minister to support this in all the Member States. My group welcomes the report that the EU Member States have agreed to the Dutch proposal for a Magnitsky sanctions regime, although it probably should not be called that. Work is now under way on "further development of a blueprint." Can the Minister say anything about the timetable? Of course, it would be good if all this did not take too long. Mr. Chairman. In the relationship with Russia, Nord Stream remains unabated. We've talked about that a lot. The Prime Minister said this week at CNN in a fine action on climate change that we should become less dependent on dubious countries for our energy supply. I'm assuming he's thinking about Russia, too. Is he prepared to reconsider his attitude towards Nord Stream as a private enterprise? Following my vote on Nord Stream, the cabinet said in the summer: we are waiting for the talks between Russia and Ukraine first. I assume that optimism about the positive outcome of these talks has not increased. And the time for reconsideration seems to me to have come. It was promised by Minister Blok that there would be another letter before Christmas, but I would like to hear the Prime Minister's views on this. Finally, I come to the euro summit. I have a number of questions to ask, in particular, the Minister for Finance, about the euro zone budget. A complex compromise has been reached in which France can say that there will be a budget of this kind and the Netherlands can say the opposite. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, convergence and competition, not stabilisation, can be an instrument, if only within the Multiannual Financial Framework. The question then is, of course, how do we think we will ever finance it, because the total expenditure within that Multiannual Financial Framework has to go down and the Netherlands is not in favour of a new own resource. I know that last point of view, but I don't really understand it. Why are we so opposed to that? I ask the Minister if taxation at EU level is not an appropriate means of countering unwanted tax competition. I understand, of course, that you need to think carefully about what you do and what you don't want to tax. And I also understand that you need to be alert to the fact that the tax burden doesn't go up uninhibited. But so categorically rejecting a new own resource is perhaps not so wise. But maybe the cabinet doesn't do that at all. In any case, I noticed the following sentence in the Eurogroup's report of 3 December. "The cabinet is not in favour of a new means of its own and believes that such instruments should be subject to strict conditionality." That's interesting, because you'd almost say it's either one or the other. Either you're just against it, or you say it's possible, provided it meets certain conditionality. I would be interested to hear more from the Minister. I see, Mr. Chairman, I have to finish. That is very convenient, because I am at the end of my speech with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u8	That's a coincidence. Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr. Chairman. We have heard and seen that the vote on Brexit has been postponed. And we were informed today that there are 48 votes to hold a vote of confidence vote on the Prime Minister's leadership in England. It could be in a week. The question that concerns us all is of course: how to proceed with the Brexit or not? The Prime Minister's letter on his discussion with Prime Minister May states that he wishes to look with his colleagues at how further clarification of the withdrawal agreement can support the approval procedure in the UK Parliament. How does the Prime Minister see that? Can a further clarification not lead to even greater annoyance in the House of Commons? After all, it is clear that at least there is no longer any way to negotiate. I agree with Mrs Leijten's question on this point. The Prime Minister said yesterday that there was "some progress." What does that mean? Mr. Chairman. The European Council concludes the year with a strong agenda. Because of the limited speaking time, my group focuses mainly on two points, namely the Multiannual Financial Framework, the MFF, and the Euro Summit. The negotiating document on the MFF is explicitly referred to as "dynamic'. Does this dynamic go so far, I ask the Prime Minister, that there is still room for discussion in the European Council? Or are the results of the General Affairs Council established? And what is the response to this document? Where are the pain points for the Netherlands? How often is the negotiating document updated? Is that what happens in every General Affairs Council? And could the Chamber be better informed in advance than in the annotated agenda for the European Council? It was really short. There are no amounts in the public version of the document. But is it true that the negotiations are using documents in which they already exist? Mr. Chairman. I will go into more detail on the MFF and the euro area budget. The 50PLUS fraction has a few clear starting points. Firstly, the European Union's budget must remain 1% of GDP. Secondly, if there is to be more, it can be done through a premium on the payments made by France and Germany. I have said this before: they want so much. Thirdly, the Netherlands must now take a firm stance in these negotiations. Does the cabinet agree with 50PLUS? I would like to reply to these three points. The term 'hard draft' is a nice bridge to the remark I would like to make on behalf of 50PLUS on the euro summit. Minister Hoekstra reportedly took a hard line at the 18-hour meeting of the eurogroup last week, particularly with regard to France's and Germany's paltry plans for a euro area budget. But what has he achieved? The press release indicates that the Netherlands has already committed itself in any way to a euro area budget insofar as it focuses on convergence and competition within the MFF. There is even talk of decisions over the next two days on the size of this fund. If yes, then why is this better defendable than a euro area budget for stabilisation? And will that not then be a slap in the face for a full euro budget? We know that slowly in Europe: it starts small, but before you know it, you're stuck with a system, a system or an agency that you thought would never get there. Can we count on the Prime Minister to make it clear to his colleagues that under no circumstances does the Netherlands agree to a euro area budget? Is the Prime Minister prepared to use the means of veto if necessary? As far as we are concerned, if he needs a motion to support him, that is no problem at all. Mr. Chairman. The impression is that, on a number of other points, the results of the Eurogroup are consistent with the principles of the cabinet and with the views of my group. Can the Minister of Finance state how he looks back at this meeting? It has already been mentioned: the French Finance Minister has his own explanation and so does our minister. The French Finance Minister was furious with the Hanseatic group. And to think, last Monday, at 8:00 a.m., President Macron caused a 10 billion larger deficit, which certainly puts France above 3%. I would like a response from the Minister of Finance and perhaps also from the Prime Minister on how to do that in a moment. What has been decided on the new own resources and/or additional payments made by the euro countries through an Intergovernmental Agreement? For the record, 50PLUS is against these two funding resources. Does the cabinet still believe that? What has been agreed on the European Deposit Guarantee Scheme? Technically nothing, but we want to know clearly whether the cabinet still agrees with 50PLUS that this cannot be achieved without the two Dutch conditions being met, and in particular that of a prudent valuation of government bonds. Recently, a German ruler said that the current 100% rating of government bonds is "the biggest misincentive on the planet," a paranoia.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u10	Will you finish up, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u11	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I will. We have made clear agreements in the European Union, which work excellently on paper but in practice have been disastrous. They were and are the main proponents of a federal transfer union that has been responsible on several occasions for letting the reins be celebrated, and we do not want that anymore. Finally, Mr President. The question is whether the total depletion of the French and Italian public finances is not a reason for the Prime Minister, together with 50PLUS, not to open the door, because otherwise a French team will be ready to break that crack with crowbars. Our question to the Prime Minister is whether he has the guts to put Europe, and in particular some of the countries I mentioned, on the zero line. Or does he dare to do so only in his own country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman. Although the brexitchaos provide a lot of political entertainment, they should not lose sight of the fact that a lot of English people, but also a lot of Dutch people, are at risk of losing their jobs as a result of this mess and mess. That may encourage the Dutch supporters of a nexit to think. There are still parties - the PVV and Forum for Democracy - who think it would be a great idea if our much smaller country were to take the same step. They still claim that we would keep all the benefits and that, of course, the disadvantages are only the fault of Brussels. Don't fall for it, I'd like to say. Mr. Chairman. We support the Prime Minister in his efforts to reduce the damage in this situation, to keep the British as close as possible to the European Union and to serve the Dutch interest. Now a situation can arise that, without a clear course, solution or deal, will be based on a no-dealbrexit. Unfortunately, that scenario is becoming more likely. I think it is important for the Prime Minister to make a commitment to buy time, to push deadlines backwards, to ensure that we do not all jump off that cliff and in the meantime continue to think about what we can do from the European side to the causes that have led to the voice for Brexit in the United Kingdom. I am thinking in particular of other and better arrangements for labour migration. As far as we are concerned, he has the space to think about it in the coming months. With regard to migration, I would again like to draw attention to the situation in Greece. We've talked about this before. It's getting colder in there now. In Camp Moria, 4,000 people have to use 20 toilets. That's what happens on this rich continent! That is a mockery that we have said before that we should not accept. I now ask our Prime Minister, along with other European countries that do not deny the problem, to take the initiative to do something about it and to agree on it. And yes, if that would mean that the Netherlands too would have to accommodate some of those people, I would support that. Because it is slowly becoming impossible to explain that in a decent country, on a decent continent, we continue to look away. I do know: it is not the fault of the Netherlands. It's complex, but it's happening under our eyes. Mr. Chairman. At the end of November, the European Commission published an important report on the climate with ambition. Earlier we saw our Prime Minister from Katowice tell us in an interview with CNN that there is no time to lose; a compelling call. This morning I heard the leader of D66 also from Katowice making a similar call. It is not for me to review the differences between those political leaders, but the message was clear: there is no time to lose. And that's right. Water in the Rhine has never been so low and the ice cap in Greenland melts faster than it has been measured in the last 7,000 years. But it leads to huge noise when it comes to action. This is true here in the Netherlands and that is true in Europe. I ask the Prime Minister to speak in favour of a CO levy on industry and the energy sector, so that we do not have to raise the energy bill of many people and pay the polluters. In the meantime, we know that this is also the way to be sensible about this problem. I ask him to commit himself to this at European level, because it is on the agenda and his colleagues should take the same step. That urgency that we heard from Poland has stunned in The Hague. The employers think there's plenty of time. It's time for the Prime Minister to rule. If he is not clear enough immediately, I am considering tabling a motion on this point. Finally, Mr President. On the euro area, we read in the preliminary outcome of the negotiations that it will be easier to address investors and investors after 2022. I think that's a good thing. I ask the Minister of Finance to confirm that this means that the fundamental choice will be strengthened that we no longer continue to appeal to citizens/taxpayers to irresponsible behaviour by banks, to the irresponsible debt position of banks and to what consequences this can have for countries. So that the Dijsselbloemdoctrine is first addressed to investors and investors instead of ordinary people being anchored. I also ask him to explain how the Netherlands will ensure that this will be used, as you see the risk that some countries will perish in a kind of hug with their big banks with these banks. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. We're going through some bad times. Once again, we are on the eve of a loaded European summit. Europe is at a crossroads, not only when it comes to the Brexit, but also when we look at hot issues such as the Multiannual Financial Framework, the euro area, subsidiarity and migration. Mr. Chairman. The chaos around the Brexit is getting bigger and bigger. The vote on the deal has been postponed. We have seen this morning, as many have pointed out, that the leadership of the Prime Minister in the United Kingdom is under discussion. One of the biggest stumbling blocks for many British parliamentarians is the temporaryity of the customs union and the backstop regime. My first question is therefore: do the Netherlands and the European Union have sufficient regard for the real concerns of the United Kingdom, such as the temporaryity of the backstop and customs procedure and, if so, what does that show? The SGP continues to stress that a deal is of the utmost importance and that the Netherlands must continue to prepare for the cliff-edge scenario. I would like to hear how the cabinet is going to implement the recommendations of the General Court and, as stated in its recent Brexit report, to, among other things, the additional customs capacity. Mr. Chairman. A choice for the Brexit will hopefully lead to a pass for the European Union. This wish was expressed by the SGP two and a half years ago. Unfortunately, we see that the European Union is not becoming more cautious and wiser, but more reckless. For example, proposals are being made for the substantial expansion of the Multiannual Financial Framework. The SGP reiterates the call, in line with the adopted Bishop/Leijten motion of February this year, for a slimmer budget. The fact that a political agreement seems to remain out for the time being is a bad thing. Look at farmers, for example. They must guarantee food security, innovate and meet climate objectives. We ask a lot of them, but we leave them in uncertainty. Does the Minister agree that the aim should be to reach an agreement by May 2019? Mr. Chairman. I congratulate the government, especially the Minister of Finance, on the opposition to the euro area budget. A so-called stabilisation mechanism is really three bridges too far for the SGP. Anyone can feel on their clogs that this leads to an indirect form of transfers. However, the compromise does not reassure us. I ask whether or not there will be a shock fund. The word'stabilisation' is nevertheless included in the text of the EU ministers. The elephant seems to have become the mouse in a cage. You usually catch a mouse to get rid of it, not to coddle it. Our question to the Prime Minister is therefore whether he is going to do his best to get that proposal finally put in the trash. And then, as Mrs Leijten said earlier, are we going to talk about it ourselves or is Brussels going to talk about it? Subsidiarity. Unfortunately, we can see that the European train continues to penetrate many areas. Education, social affairs, you can't think of it that crazy, or the EU is worming its foot in the door. We're tired of that. A lot of Dutch people are tired of that as well. The SGP therefore wants the deadline for the subsidiarity test to be 12 weeks instead of the eight that we now have. I ask the Prime Minister to express this position in Brussels as well. In order not to upset too much, the SGP pleads for... Apologies, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to talk about migration, but of course I have to tell you that sooner. In that respect, you can see that I'm right back in the spotlight. That's what it's supposed to be! In order not to upset too much, the SGP recommends that as much as possible be based on existing directives. We are not waiting for new regulations, but the European Commission is now suggesting that proposals for regulations would have been converted into directives. For example, the Qualifications Directive remains in place. There will be no qualification regulation. Our question is: is that really true? Does the government intend to ensure that this is done in the case of the Procedural Directive and the Reception Directive? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you, Mr President. The Europhiles in Brussels are once again running in the wrong direction and our leaders, here in box K, are running behind them like lemmings, towards a federal Europe, a political union, a transfer union, because that is the terminal station. For a monetary union cannot exist without a transfer union, and an EU cannot exist without a political union. That is why all the plans, from a European army to European taxes, are all based on a step-by-step approach. In Brussels, they were singed away from reality. Many citizens are tired of the EU. They do not want more but less EU. They want to be the boss of their own country again, the boss of their own immigration policy, the boss of their own money, the boss of their own policy and no longer have to dance to Brussels. We are therefore seeing the EU's and the euro's acceptance sink. In Italy, France, Greece and Eastern Europe, they want more self-determination, more sovereignty and less EU interference. During this Euro Summit, further steps are being taken towards a transfer union. Take the emergency fund, the ESM of 500 billion, which is being reformed. That's a big pot of money, 500 billion, where everyone will be able to pry out to their heart's content. What once began as an emergency safety net, now becomes a hammock for Club Med. That's good! The PVV warned about this. If Italy is going to get into trouble, it is only a matter of time, for example because they can no longer borrow on the capital market. They will all dive into the 500 billion hammock. Even if Italian banks threaten to fall because they are wallpapered with irrecoverable loans and national junk unions, this pot of money is ready to support the banks. Mr. Chairman. And then there is the euro area budget, a French-German proposal. Our minister says first of all: about my dead body that I agree, because that would mean a tough transfer union. He said so himself. He fought this proposal and gathered seven, eight or nine dwarfs around him. I don't know how much more to block this proposal. Le Maire was not amused, but it was not allowed to benefit. The euro area budget is going to be there, but it must not be called that. It will be an instrument for convergence and competition. But the euro was actually sold to us as a means of promoting convergence and competition. We have seen that the opposite has happened. The euro has not brought us prosperity, rather the opposite. It is not for nothing that the real disposable income has stopped for 16 years, thanks to the euro. The euro has really brought us nothing, but instead of dismantling the euro and seeing that the euro does not bring us prosperity, it is intended to strengthen it. How does one do that? By making more money flow from North to South and from West to East. Does the Prime Minister really think people are gonna stand for this? And so there is a call for a euro area budget, so that billions are made available to Member States to compensate for the absence of monetary policy and exchange rates. You can also return your own coin. That's a lot cheaper. Is it true that the Finance Minister has agreed to a euro area budget against all agreements and that the Heads of Government only have to give their mandate and decide on the amount? And is it true that this euro area budget needs to be fed by European taxes, such as the financial transaction tax, or additional payments from euro area countries? I hope not, and I hope that the Prime Minister will be right about this: no euro area budget, no transfer union, no European taxes, no extra payments, not now, never. Is the Prime Minister saying this to me? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the deposit guarantee scheme, the EDIS. That's what's gonna happen, sooner or later. Some banks are so rotten that everything has to be put in place so that it is not the Member State that is responsible for the debt, and not the taxpayer of that Member State, but the other banks from other Member States. That is why a resolution fund of nearly 60 billion, created from the ESM, is soon being set up, in case there is not enough in that resolution fund, and one would prefer a European deposit guarantee scheme today rather than tomorrow. Because if a bank falls over, the account can be transferred to the other healthy banks in the other Member States. What do the Dutch banks actually think of that? This Minister of Finance is still a little reluctant to say: first risk reduction than risk sharing. But who wants to share risks with the zombie banks from southern Europe? These banks are covered with bad loans and overvalued government bonds. The Italian balance sheets alone contain 30% of non-performing loans and 2,500 billion in Italian paper. You're not gonna share any risks with that, are you? You'd be crazy. Mr. Chairman. If these banks are then regarded as healthy as we saw last time in the stress test, then all those banks were supposedly healthy, you may wonder what that test is doing. Are you sure that test is correct? How long are these banks healthy, because that's also a snapshot? If they are equally healthy now and we are in favour of a deposit guarantee scheme at European level, then we will be committed to it in ten years' time if those banks are not healthy. So you don't want to sail on that compass. Then the MFK. The European Union now wants more money, much more money. This year we pay almost 9 billion to Brussels, or more than €1,000 per household. This makes the Netherlands the largest net contributor in the EU. But that is not enough: the European Commission wants more. It wants to take away our discount, it wants to halve our collection costs for customs and it wants new own resources such as European taxes. How will the Prime Minister achieve that the Netherlands will not lose a dime extra to the European Union? Is the Prime Minister going to veto this or not? Mr. Chairman. People want less Brussels and no more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr Van Dijck says that purchasing power has not increased for 16 years as a result of monetary union. I think the euro has nothing to do with that. Does he agree with me that the main cause is that we have been living on a growing debt mountain since the mid-1990s, that banks are dominant, that central bankers' policies are dominant, that we are not so much focusing on real production and on real innovation, but on more and more debt and that we call that economic growth? Isn't that the main cause of the fact that prosperity and wealth don't end up with ordinary people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u19	No, because because they have beaten the monetary instrument out of their hands in order to devalue or play with interest, there is only one thing you can do as a country: reduce or limit wages to be competitive. In the past, for example, a country such as Greece was able to devalue with the currency or lower interest rates and thus boost the economy. You can't do that anymore. The only thing countries can do to be competitive is to reduce wages and wage increases. As a result, you automatically get that wages are lagging behind and therefore the real disposable income is also lagging behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u20	I do expect Mr Van Dijck to agree with me that we should focus more on real production and innovation and that wages in the Netherlands can indeed grow with us if we have a healthy economy and not just drive more and more debt to the banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u21	Of course, but we see in France, in the Netherlands, throughout Europe that people are going out and demanding higher wages. Wages are hugely behind schedule and therefore the disposable income of the people. This has not been the case since 2002 but since 1977. The euro has fed this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u22	I still want to go back to the Brexit. You can now see what the situation is with a Brexit, for a country that is leaving the European Union. You're a big supporter of a nexit. Does this now also affect your position on a nexit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u23	No, we are still very much in favour of a nexit, because we see it going completely wrong in the European Union and with the euro. I also don't understand why parties like the VVD are signing and guaranteeing every time. I just said it for all those banks that are wallpapered with bad loans and for all those countries that are dying of debt and don't know how to repay them all. And that is what the Netherlands is going to guarantee as a prosperous country. Until we get the bill, and then our prosperity is over, and then we're even worse off than Greece. And then the United Kingdom laughs at us in our face, because it saved its ass in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u24	I think this is a very special reaction from the PVV. I believe that citizens in the UK, but also the Dutch who live in the UK, are not laughing at all at the moment and that companies are not laughing at all. I don't think anyone's laughing right now, because the situation that's there is, of course, horrible. I don't understand why you don't want to take a realistic look at that and say, "I don't want this. I would not want to do that to citizens and businesses in the future: this uncertainty, this uncertainty and a deal that may not be made at all." I don't understand why the PVV would want that. I would like Mr Van Dijck to explain again why he would like to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u25	Well, that's what I'm saying: because the European Union requires us to guarantee all the banks and all the countries that are members of the European Union. And that's what we're gonna do. You're talking about the future. You say: for the future of children and grandchildren. They will be billed when Greece decides not to pay back the 200 billion we threw there. Who's gonna pay for that later? You probably don't, because they don't start paying back until 2050, but your children or your grandchildren will get the bill. And then the United Kingdom got away with the dance and laughs like hell.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u26	You can move it back to the future now, but I think we are all going to take measures to prevent that kind of thing and to reduce those risks. It is about the uncertainty of the citizens now. It is about the certainty for the companies now, about the economic damage we are suffering. If you were in favour of a nexit, that is something you should accept the consequences of. I just understand that the PVV wouldn't accept those consequences either, because that would just be bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u27	Yes, because we have clearly said that it will probably hurt in the early years of a nexit. This is particularly true now that we see the European Union's behaviour towards England. She's more out to punish England, to set an example for other Member States, so "don't even think about getting out, because we're gonna punish you; we're gonna destroy you completely." That is what it is doing now with the United Kingdom. You don't want to be a member of a club that treats ex-participants like that. Anyway, we say we have to get out quickly, and the sooner the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u28	"The sooner the better." One of the questions I have is the following. You propose that the Netherlands leave the European Union as soon as possible. Would you like a hard nexit? This means that we are actually stopping trading with the countries around us under the conditions we now have. Or do you think that the Netherlands should remain part of the internal market?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u29	That last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u30	Is the PVV aware that this also means that you have to abide by all the rules that the European Union makes without talking about them and that you need a customs union? 'Cause if you don't, you can't. In fact, these are rules that are made in Brussels. Do you not agree with me that you are actually being very tough, you say: we should get out as quickly as possible, but we should be as guilty of promising something that is not right as the British colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u31	No, that is nonsense, because we choose the Swiss model: the European Economic Area. That's what we've always said. That's our choice is also in all our investigations. You say that you will have to stick to everything, but that is not true, because then we will no longer have to guarantee Greece. I don't think Switzerland is participating in the ESM. I do not believe that Switzerland is participating in the kamikaze policy pursued by the ECB by buying up 2,500 billion in bonds that it will never see again. Switzerland doesn't participate in that. And, indeed, to a greater or lesser extent Switzerland also has a kind of free movement of citizens, I believe. They have a little more to say about it than we do. But Switzerland doesn't participate in all that bullshit you stand for, bringing all those Africans and all those people from the Middle East here. So Switzerland doesn't participate in that either. So Switzerland has well guaranteed its sovereignty in that respect by being a member of the EEA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u32	The PVV has no idea... It's easy to talk: we're staying in the internal market, we're getting out. I think Switzerland is a great country too, but what you do is bullshit. You always have a lot of criticism of others, of everyone else, always, of all governments and of all parties. But your own proposal to leave the European Union costs incredibly many jobs, costs incredibly much money. And you have no idea how you want to handle it. You're worse than the worst brexiter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u33	Well, at least I'm glad Mr Asscher thinks Switzerland is a great country. That is what we agree with. And Switzerland is doing great by not being in the European Union by not having a euro. And that is why Switzerland is an example country for us. It would adorn the PvdA if they looked at Switzerland a little more and took an example instead of joining the transfer union, which the European Union is about to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u34	I would like to ask Mr Van Dijck about the following. The PVV always points to Brussels and Europe, but I would like to look at what happens if similar parties like the PVV do so in national governments of countries. The Italian Government has put forward a budget that is much more money than it is coming in. In Hungary, a university is expelled from the country. And in the United Kingdom it is decided, on the basis of all kinds of lies, to leave the European Union, with all its consequences for citizens. These are examples of national populist actions that are bad for people. Would the PVV think that is a good idea in the Netherlands? Let us look at what is happening at national level by parties similar to yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u35	"National populist actions"? It's called "democracy." I know that D66 is not a supporter of democracy, because D66 knows better than the population and makes choices that the population does not agree on at all. I am thinking for a moment of the referendum: there was no one for that at the time, not even D66, and yet they are abolishing it. But what they do in those countries is at least their right, because they are sovereign countries. Sovereign countries must do what is right for their country. That's what the Netherlands wants. And that is why the Netherlands wants to leave the European Union. Of course, it cannot be the case that Italy is pursuing a mispolicy and is about to place the bill on the Dutch taxpayer's behalf. That is why we say: Italy and the Netherlands would be better off from the European Union, so that they can both do what is right for their country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u36	Yes, I know you're in favour of sovereignty, and that's your right. However, I am referring to substantive proposals by governments that violate human rights, that violate free choice of university, that submit budgets that are totally incorrect and that plunge their population into chaos and misery by stepping out of the European Union on the basis of lies. I ask Mr Van Dijck: would the PVV like to see this kind of policy in the Netherlands? Because you always point to what is happening in Brussels and in the European Union, but you never look at your own brothers and sisters in countries in Europe where the people are treated to problems caused by politics such as your party always does. So, why don't you go into that? So not all that rhetoric about things that happened here again. Here things are still going pretty well, because responsible parties take responsibility. It's about what happens in countries where populists come to power. They just take out universities, they serve budgets that don't add up. Those are parties like your party. Get into that. Look at you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u37	I say it again: every country must do what it thinks is right for the country. And who's gonna decide that? Those are the people of those countries. There will then be elections, where votes will be taken. In Italy, there are now two parties at the helm that you may not agree with, and then suddenly they are lies. The Italian population has chosen to do so. You can't imagine that. You are so unsung from reality... In the United Kingdom, they have chosen to leave the EU. And because they decided that, it's suddenly based on lies. Why? It is possible that these people are very sick of the European Union. That she says: we see our country changing, I feel too often that I live in Poland instead of in England. A lot of English people do. They see their village and city completely changing. And you say, based on lies, they chose to do that. That's bullshit! You're not a Democrat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u38	My last question, about Hungary. There is a party that, on the basis of your democratic majority, your democratic walhalla, says: we are going to evict a university from the country. How does the PVV feel about that? Is that the democracy you're talking about? Do you think that's a good policy? Would the PVV be in favour of expelling a university from the country on the basis of a political majority, as happens in Hungary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u39	We have just found that the "D" of D66 does not stand for democracy. D66 should be more concerned about his own people, about the Dutch. You're always reading other people's lessons. You tell them how to do it in Africa, Hungary and you name it. Look at the Dutch. Half of the Dutch people are on the verge of water. They're barely making ends meet. But you are concerned about what is happening in Hungary, the Middle East, Africa and so on. That's what you're doing. The population blames D66 for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u40	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u41	Mr President, thank you. Since the British Parliament beheaded the king in 1649, it was not so confused. The United Kingdom is simply in political chaos. A number of colleagues have already mentioned it: yesterday the announced vote on the Brexit deal did not take place. Tonight there is a vote of confidence on the position of Prime Minister May. Today, too, this leads to new uncertainty among all those who are wondering what the next few weeks, Christmas and beyond are going to be like. Mr. Chairman. If Prime Minister May does not survive that vote, there will have to be a new British Prime Minister. Perhaps the Article 50 procedure should also be postponed, which has been under way for more than a year and a half. But that does not change the existing majorities in the British Parliament. Within the British Parliament, they have agreed on one thing, namely that they do not agree on the deal that Theresa May has made with the European Union. But that was the only thing they agreed on. Making a majority against something usually works. This is often the case in this Parliament. But what are they for? Are they for a harder deal? Are they for a softer deal? Are they for a new election? Are they for a second referendum? The British just can't get out. There is no majority for this deal, there is no majority for no deal and there is no majority for staying in the EU either. So you have a political chaos. Unfortunately, it is not just a political chaos. I agree with people like Lodewijk Asscher and Van Ojik who say: it is in itself nice to watch; it may look nice and the videos lead to a lot of entertainment, but it is of course just bad policy, irresponsible politics over the heads of people who lose their jobs and who do not know if they can still take care of their parents when living in the United Kingdom as a Dutchman. And so there are many other examples of uncertainty. Mr. Chairman. The British parliamentarians must therefore take responsibility and work together for the future of their own country and the European Union. They have to prevent people from getting hurt by populists, because that's what's happening. It all sounds very good. When you listen to the story of Nigel Farage and Boris Johnson, you think: well, that sounds pretty plausible. They're setting something in motion based on lies. That reminded me of Mr Van Dijck's speech just now. Then they step aside and let other people solve the problems. They're gonna have to deal with the damage. The deal that's now closed is definitely not perfect. There's a lot you can do, but he's better than the chaos that's about to come. Because no deal is just a nightmare. It's a doom scenario, a step in the darkness. That is why I hope that, if this deal is agreed, we, as the House of Representatives, will send out a signal to the British that they will remain very welcome in the European Union, because Brexit is and remains a tragedy. Brexit is bad for everyone, bad for the pound, bad for jobs, bad for businesses and bad for civil rights. Let's make that call today. Mr. Chairman. For D66 it is important that people do not suffer from the Brexit. Now that the no deal is an increasingly serious option, I repeat our plea for a law that will ensure that the Dutch can have a dual nationality in the United Kingdom. For this group of people that would really be a great solution to some of the problems that hang over their heads. I would like a response from the Prime Minister to this proposal. What steps does the government intend to take to help the hundreds of thousands of Dutch people in the United Kingdom? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to hear from the Prime Minister how his conversation with Prime Minister May went during breakfast. What guarantees do they ask about the backstop, the safety net system with regard to the specific problem of the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland? This deal has been negotiated for about two years and this part seems difficult to negotiate. You could clarify some things and offer some comfort to the British, but the question is what is still possible and what the Prime Minister thinks the European Union should do. That's what I like to hear from his mouth. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the report by the Court of Auditors on the Brexit on EUR 2.3 billion in additional costs over the next five years, i.e. calculated by an institute intended for this purpose. Of those 2.3 billion you can do a lot, but that's what the no-deal scenario is going to cost us every year over the next five years. This is still separate from the possible higher contribution to the EU budget, because that is not in that amount. What does the Prime Minister think of this investigation? I ask his colleague in the Finance Committee whether the cabinet is prepared financially for this kind of figure. Did we even create space, should there be any such costs? I agree with my colleague, Mr Bram van Ojik, who said that Parliament seems to have been broadly informed but has not received much or no information on the detailed legislation by specialist committee, by section, whether it is about justice, agriculture or education. We get a law that says the minister can unilaterally revoke or amend laws, but we don't get good information about the parts at the level of the departmental departments. Could this be better taken care of? I could talk more about the Brexit, but I also need to discuss a number of other items on the agenda today. I would like to talk about the plans relating to European finances and the euro area. I was just talking about Italy. That country is threatening to build up far too much debt with a budget that sounds good, for the simple reason that much more money would go out than it comes in. This is not sustainable in the longer term. It is unique that the European Commission has sent back this budget and finally bites through against the populist Italian government that has submitted it, which is using it again as a campaign tool against the European Union. Eventually, this leads to nothing. It leads to an unhealthy budget, to poor finances and also to longer-term problems for Italian citizens. So this isn't good. The EU must prepare for a future in which the prosperity of future generations is guaranteed. Germany and France have said that this is why we need a euro area budget, precisely because countries like Italy, where economic growth is lagging behind, are doing worse. So you have to try to encourage those countries to reform that will make the economy healthy, so that they are much better able to exploit their potential and thus allow much more money to come in. I therefore welcome this step and also the extension of the European Stability Mechanism in order to be able to advise on this. The Minister of Finance is looking at this differently. He has become the leader of a njet coalition: he says above all what the Netherlands does not want and what needs to be stopped. D66 would like us to speak more often about what we do want, so what cooperation on the euro should look like, how we strengthen each other and how we can drive economic growth in all kinds of different countries, so that we can become stronger together. That is why I would like to see a yes-coalition that will enable enforceable economic reforms and take responsibility for building a stronger economy together as a Union. That is in the interests of all our citizens. Secondly, more money should go to innovation and knowledge and less to agriculture. I understand that the proposal, which we are also discussing here today, is to get money for a euro area budget from the Reform Delivery Tool of the MFF, but why not just get it out of the CAP, the common agricultural fund, or from the cohesion funds, the non-innovative part of those funds? That would be better as far as we are concerned. I would like a response from the Minister of Finance to all the questions, including the enthusiasm that I would like to see a little more on the yes side than on the no side. Saying no is always easy, but saying what you do want is especially important if you want to achieve something. I see spokesmen standing by for interruptions, but I'm not finished yet, Mr. President. I'd actually like to say I'm just getting a little loose. I just want to say a few things about migration. Yes, Mrs Leijten, unfortunately it's just not in today, I guess. No interruptions for me today, what a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u42	No, she saved them all for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u43	Sure. Mr. Chairman. The Marrakesh Pact has been supported by 190 countries, but Europe is not moving forward in the area of migration. The negotiations on a common approach are simply blocked. In the meantime, people are still sailing on dangerous boats to our continent and the situation on the Greek islands, I think, was Mr Asscher, who said something about that. It just can't happen on a continent like ours. We could easily settle this with each other, but political contradictions, polarization and fear stand in the way of this. That's worrying and disappointing. Why don't we as the Netherlands really try to get ahead of this in order to pull this off? Can we still get this legislation around in 2018? What does the Prime Minister expect from the summit in this area? How does he look at the French-German position paper on the Dublin rules that appeared this week? In any case, we cannot wait for this dossier to be dragged and dragged forward. We really need to find solutions. I really think that the Netherlands should take a very responsible role in this. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Then there is my final point, the rule of law. A number of parties here have the mouths of democracy. Democracy is very important, but there is also something like the rule of law. I have often said that the rule of law cannot be reduced under the guise of democracy, that human rights cannot be suppressed under the guise of majorities. And that is what seems to be happening in Hungary, where a Hungarian university in Budapest forced by Orban's new legislation has to close its doors and simply move to Vienna. Then you are no longer talking about normal democracy, but about violating academic freedom as a shared European value. A pillar of free society is being trampled on. We can't keep looking at that like it's nothing. D66 considers that to be very problematic. I was pleased to read that the cabinet also agrees with the D66 Group and that the Article 7 procedure really needs to be dealt with. I would like to ask about the state of play. I would also like to know whether the Foreign Minister mentioned this in the General Affairs Council which took place yesterday. Mr. Chairman. I see that I have to finish, and that is what I am doing here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mr Verhoeven does not talk about populists, and those are actually those who are critical of the European Union. In my view, that is a very unwise attitude to debate other solutions for the European Union than that federal train. When it comes to populist telling a story because it is better for those to whom you tell the story, isn't that exactly what the Minister of Finance is doing, when he says he won last week and that there will be no euro area budget when we read everywhere that in the coming days Prime Minister Rutte must agree to the scope, size and deployment of a euro area budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u45	Mrs Leijten raises two points. First of all, it's true that I don't have it on populism. I find lies to satisfy citizens, false promises and false oppositions a very bad form of politics. This does not help those who are uncertain about the future and who absolutely must be heard by all the political parties in this country. I think you should definitely help and accommodate those people, but not in a populist way. Let that be said for a moment. And how both gentlemen in box K try to deal with the message they want to tell about the euro area budget, I leave it to them. I'm just a simple D66 room member. It is well known that D66 is in favour of a common approach in the financial field to increase stability and growth. We have seen Macron's euro area proposals and there is now a proposal that includes a reduced euro area budget. I think the cabinet should be honest about that. Mrs Leijten and I often have discussions about the tone, voice and content of the debate, but one thing must be clear: when a decision has been taken, you have to explain to the people why that decision has been taken and you have to name it. As far as I am concerned, that is an answer that Mrs Leijten should be able to respond to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u46	Then I hear Mr Verhoeven very clearly. Then I hear Mr Verhoeven say: the government must be honest and not pretend to have won a boxing match when it has caught a black eye. Because that's what happened. The commitment was: we do not want a euro area budget. Motions have been adopted in this Chamber which say that there should also be no stabilisation function. D66 has always been against these motions, but the Chamber has always sent the Minister with the message: it must not be there. The outcome will come anyway. The Minister came before a press conference was held by Mr Centeno with a press release: I won. Doesn't that tend to be populism, not telling the truth, to a beautiful story and half a lie? That is exactly what you blame those who are critical of the European Union, but that is exactly what the Minister is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u47	Mrs Leijten now wants me to take over her words and move them to the Minister of Finance. I've seen a picture of the finance minister on the front page of the newspaper he's boxing in. I don't know if he's a meritorious boxer. I do know that, even if you can fight, you can still get a black eye, but you can still win the game. If that is the case, I would like to hear him say it myself. But I can be very clear: if the cabinet does not communicate clearly about what has been decided in Europe, why it is in the interests of the Netherlands and why it is in the interests of the people, who are uncertain about their future and their finances, that is not good. The cabinet must communicate clearly and honestly. I do not mean that in the sense of 'we have won a battle in Europe, look how good we are'. No, it just has to put forward a European compromise. If you're a real guy, if you're a real boxer, you're putting out a European compromise because you think it's better and it's maximum achievable. I am sure that the Minister of Finance will soon enter the ring, put on his boxing gloves and speak clear, clear language.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u48	Mr Verhoeven talks about the clarity of the cabinet. I ask him to be clear: why is he in favour of the euro area budget? That is what he is; that is his party. He said it can be small too. How can he explain this to the population? What's the price of that? You want to make everything clear, including the consequences for our citizens. Can you be clear about that now? Because that has a big impact, regardless of costs for climate, gas and light, paying extra to the pump and so on. This is gonna cost extra money, too. Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u49	Let's start with not always just talking about expenses. You've been involved in all kinds of discussions on financial matters for decades. I think you're very well-educated. You know exactly what you're talking about. That's great. But if you know how finances work so well, you also know that you have to look at income, benefits and costs. Of course, you can always take a closer look at what the Dutch government has to make for a certain part of the European Union, a euro area budget or any kind of instrument that leads to stabilisation, growth or improvement. You can always look at the cost, but that's a very one-sided way of looking. So we need to be very clear about the costs and they are not clear, because there is a proposal on the table now and that is still being discussed. But let's also look at the benefits, the benefits, the proceeds. A euro area budget is simply further financial cooperation to enable stability and growth. That is what D66 is for, of course under conditions and, of course, it must be done in a sensible way, but you should not just look at the cost of it. Because then you actually say to citizens: everything we do with money is bad. While there are some very good things with that money...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u50	Mr Van Rooijen has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u51	... will be done. It's called investing. Investing is actually also a form of cost-making, but it still yields a lot. Investing in education and research, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u52	Thank you for the compliments you have given me, but that aside. Let me change it. Are you prepared to consider keeping the euro area budget within the 1% MFF so that it does not lead to more money, but so that convergence and competition within the MFF can be achieved by removing it from cohesion and agriculture? Furthermore, we do not think it should be called a euro area budget, but we probably disagree on that. Are you prepared, while maintaining the current ceiling, to promote convergence and competition? That seems to me to be a good thing at the expense of cohesion and agriculture, so that it does not recover?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u53	On the latter I can answer in full yes, but then another comma with a sentence found out that I have to be against something else. D66, of course, has an independent position. The cabinet position is clear. That will be explained again by the two gentlemen, who are as awake as happy in box-K. There is now a proposal in which the MFF is the basis for filling that pot. As far as we are concerned, therefore, it comes from the non-innovative cohesion parts or agricultural items. As far as we are concerned, that is the proposal at the moment. But we have always said that we would think that a more far-reaching euro area budget would be a good idea, so in that sense, your comma is not right. With your first piece, I can live on my own, but I'd like to be more ambitious. Anyway, we're dealing with a cabinet that has a point of view. As far as we are concerned, that is a good position. A euro area budget comes from the MFF by addressing CAP and cohesion funds. That is a good first step in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u54	My question to Mr Verhoeven is in line with the last part of his speech. I see a political problem. He actually says to the cabinet: you should say yes more often to things you say no to now. It will be no surprise to you that my party GroenLinks will often be on the side of D66. But the cabinet doesn't. That euro area budget is an example of this. That is difficult, because the cabinet is negotiating in Brussels for a no to a euro area budget on behalf of a coalition whose main partner says: I am in favour of it. How is Mr Verhoeven going to get the coalition to do what he wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u55	That is a very nice question from Mr Van Ojik. I appreciate that, too. I saw his party leader on television a few days ago and he literally said: I do not believe in compromise. He said: you have to be very clear and you have to achieve that; you just have to go for what you want to achieve. That's what he calls idealism. And that sounds good, too. Of course, D66... Let me keep it to myself: I believe in compromise. I do believe that sometimes you have to compromise in order to move forward together, I say to Mr Van Ojik. I have just complimented Mr Van Rooijen on his financial experience. I think Mr Van Ojik has an enormous amount of foreign experience. And I think he's worked his whole life in an environment where you have to compromise all the time. Now he sits with a political party that says to me: let's not compromise too much; you have to follow your ideals. I don't think that's credible. D66 does everything within this cabinet to promote our proposals, our electoral programme, our ideals as far as possible. Unfortunately, however, we cannot turn the D66 electoral programme into a cabinet policy. That is partly because GroenLinks is of course a party that we want to keep very much on our side to make that happen. So we have to work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u56	I do not understand the reference to what my party leader has said at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u57	You understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u58	I've seen it, too. He has made it quite clear that you must be able to compromise, only that compromise cannot always be an objective. Anyway, it's what kind of compromise you make. That is exactly the question I was asking Mr Verhoeven. He's gonna keep a whole story, but my question was right: how do you find a nice compromise between his yes, for the sake of clarity: what I agree with and the cabinet's no? Is that what's lying around now, or is there anything else that needs to be done? I think that's a very legitimate question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u59	At least what we have now is a very good step in the right direction. Macron had a proposal for a euro area budget. He worked on this with Germany. We are now taking a step in that direction. Mrs Leijten just indicated that she felt that this step was too far-reaching and that the cabinet should be honest about it. I think that is a very good first step. I am very positive about that. So in that sense, I think it is a positive compromise as a basis for further discussion on the euro area budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u60	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u61	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, if you don't mind? I think it is important to know whether Mr Verhoeven is now saying on behalf of D66: the compromise that is now in place is ultimately good. Or does he say: more needs to be done? He started by saying to the cabinet: you say no so many times, I invite you to say yes more often. That is why I thought: he might give a number of concrete examples of what the cabinet says no to, which he thinks should be said yes to. I could probably support that. But then, of course, my question is: how are you going to do that, Mr Verhoeven?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u62	I have just literally asked whether money from the euro area budget could be taken out of the non-innovative CAP and cohesion funds. That is a concrete proposal which, in our view, is even better than what is now on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u64	So that's the improvement we've already wanted to indicate. But that's how we'll come up with a lot of improvements in the coming years, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u65	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I now give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u66	Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, the Brexit. My colleague Anne Mulder has said it several times: the Brexit really only knows losers. This is, of course, particularly true of those citizens and entrepreneurs who, by delaying voting in the British Parliament, are still in great uncertainty about what they should now take into account, about how things are going to go. They still don't know what they're up to, and we think that's a bad thing. There's a lot of stories in the media about what's gonna happen next. Donald Tusk, President of the European Council, has already announced on Monday that the present agreement will not be renegotiated. In the meantime, however, we are also seeing the unrest in the United Kingdom, especially when it comes to the backstop in Ireland. Can the Prime Minister reflect on that? What will be the approach of the Netherlands during the summit over the Brexit? Can the Minister also comment on the follow-up process? We have heard too many times: hope for the best, prepare for the sausage. In other words, hope for the best, but prepare for the worst. The latter, a no-deal scenario, is something that we are not waiting for, but we must of course be prepared for. Are we now? There is now at last a continuity action plan from the European Commission. In the appreciation of the cabinet, there are still questions on many subjects. We are curious to know what questions these are, because they are not specified in the document and whether they have been answered. Last Monday, a report was published by the General Court on the Brexit and Customs. It seems that there is still much work to be done to prevent us from having long queues in the port of Rotterdam or at Schiphol Airport and much damage to the economy. But there are more things, such as the Dutch Food and War Authority, the financial markets, the clearing houses. I would also like to draw attention to the issue of health care, such as the import and export of medicines. How far is the Netherlands preparing for such a doom scenario? What remains to be done to ensure that this is done in a somewhat orderly manner and how is the cabinet going to continue to inform citizens and entrepreneurs in the coming period? There will also be a euro summit. A large number of issues were agreed during the Eurogroup on 3 December. In June, when we, as a VVD, feared a European Minister of Finance, a euro area budget of hundreds of billions of euros and hardly any steps towards risk reduction, the cabinet brought in a good package. The agreed package is in line with the commitment of the cabinet and the VVD. That, given the immense pressure from countries like France and Italy, is an achievement. As a VVD, we want to be less at risk of paying for failing countries and failing banks. We have tested the results. The VVD is satisfied with the package retrieved. It is therefore important that this package be reconfirmed at the European summit. What is the Prime Minister's expectation on this point and on what subjects does he expect discussion and pressure on? The common thread for many topics is for the VVD risk reduction. The risks must be further reduced, whether they be banks or countries. It is good that it has been reaffirmed that the European Stability Mechanism only lends to countries with sustainable debt and adequate payback capacity. Furthermore, in 2022, the intention is to establish a better mechanism to allow bond holders and investors to pay the bill for Member States that are in difficulty. This is an important step for the VVD. As far as we are concerned, this intention must be turned into action. How is the cabinet going to make sure it's not just about intentions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u67	Mr. Chairman. I don't believe what I'm hearing. The VVD says here: we welcome the result achieved by the Finance Minister, we are pleased that a euro area budget will be created. However, the VVD indicated that it did not want to go that way in 2012 and 2015..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... How can the VVD say: we are happy with the result, when we have clearly lost it and given it away?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u68	I think Mrs Leijten is reading the pieces differently from us. We are looking very closely at what is in the conclusions. I read that agreements have been made to create instruments that are based on convergence and competition. I think this is within the Multiannual Financial Framework. I also think that it is in line with the commitment of the cabinet, and within what we as a VVD have previously indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u69	How do you read it? [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het is vooral wát je leest.]] Do you read the propaganda of the Finance Minister in the Netherlands or do you read the report of the European Finance Ministers? Because there's something else in there. I asked the Minister of Finance what exactly happened and what the Prime Minister has to do in the next few days. But I am so surprised that you are satisfied that a decision has been made to create a euro area budget. That's what the VVD was always against. This is the prelude to a transfer union that the VVD said we are not going through. And here the VVD says: we say to the outside that there is no more money going to Greece and that we do not want to transfer from North to South, but when the time comes, we always agree. With this we see the true face of the VVD. You are pleased with this end result when you should have regretted it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u70	There was initially a proposal for a euro area budget aimed at dealing with economic shocks. I think that proposal is off the table. I read the document in such a way that it is off the table and that it is only now being discussed under the Multiannual Financial Framework on instruments for convergence and competition. That's how I read the pieces. I do not understand why you can read anything else, but I do not read that there will be a euro area budget for shock absorption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u71	This is your fifth question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u72	I think this is really weird. You can say very well: the minister was sent on a good mission, knew clearly what the Chamber wanted, held on for a long time, sought a coalition, acted strategically in that respect, but he lost it and we regret that. That does not say anything about the Minister's commitment and how he operated, but that is how it is done in Europe. In Europe you often lose, and the Netherlands often loses when it comes to the future of the euro. But I find it really bizarre that the VVD then says: we are happy with the result. You should have said here: we think the Minister has done well, but unfortunately, we have lost. You should have said, "Dear Prime Minister, of your own party, keep fighting, because we really don't want it. But you have already agreed to the euro area budget. And you know what this minister calls a mouse in a cage, but that's what the eurogroup chairman calls an embryo that can still grow nicely. And then we'll know what time it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u73	I'm starting to repeat myself a little bit, Mr. Chairman. In my view, a euro area budget has not been agreed. The cabinet's commitment was: no euro area budget for economic shocks and shock absorption. That is what the cabinet has always said, and that is what the government agreement says. So that's just not gonna happen if I read the pieces properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u74	I think you're actually going around the facts here. I also remember the long Hennis motion, which has been widely adopted here. You have always been against a euro area budget. Now you say: yes, but it is small, it is within the multiannual budget and it is only competition and convergence. That is still giving in to a euro area budget. Because what's in it wasn't the case before. It would be 1,000 billion for everything and also for stabilisation. Now you're saying, if it's in it and it starts small and limited to competition and convergence, then I can live with it. But you also know that once that elephant has become a mouse, but can get bigger in that cage, that the principle is there? I am not talking about stabilisation, which has now been said: we do not agree on this. Some countries actually do. There will be a technical discussion about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u75	Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u76	I predict that a trailer will arrive at your truck, so we have the whole eurozone budget!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u77	Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u78	Can you now say clearly that you have made a turn?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u79	I like it, because I have to start my whole story about the euro area and the package that lies ahead. I haven't said anything about the substance yet. But I really do read the pieces differently from Mr Van Rooijen. You say it is a euro area budget. No, it's tools that have to ensure more competition. I'll say something about "under the ceiling" later. Nor should we see it as a flexible ceiling for the Multiannual Financial Framework. Those are things we need to look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u80	I'd like you to stop saying "you" because maybe everyone will think it's the president or something. It's just Mrs. Aukje de Vries and Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u81	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you. Let me ask you another question. So you are in favour of a euro area budget within the MFF, but still limited to competition and convergence. But are you willing to accept an extra-high MFK? In other words, it increases the MFF and puts that mouse on top of the existing ceilings that are planned. And how are you going to pay for that? With own resources? And which one? That is the next question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u82	How does Mrs. Aukje de Vries intend to pay for that? That was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u83	I think it is clear what the VVD is dedicated to the Multiannual Financial Framework: we want it to be a tight ceiling, not a flexible ceiling, and we want a low ceiling. In this respect, I can therefore reassure Mr Van Rooijen, I think: this commitment remains the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u84	I also think it is a bit naive to think that the euro area budget is not going to happen now, because the word'stabilization' is no longer there and then it is good. While it is clear in those documents that it is an opacity, that we do not yet have an agreement on stabilisation, but that it will eventually be there, and that it will be paid out of its own resources; the financial transaction tax is even mentioned. The VVD participates in the European Commission's salami tactics. They do it one step at a time. They even admit it equestrianly: this is another first step and many more will follow. They say it in the media. The question is: where does the VVD draw a line when it comes to European taxes, a higher MFF or in this case the euro area budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u85	I think the commitment of the VVD has always been clear. We have also discussed this on a regular basis in the ECOFIN and Eurogroup debates. I believe that the government agreement is also very clear, namely that there should be no euro area budget with a stabilisation function or shock absorption. So I think that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u86	I wish it were that clear. Because the VVD very often comes with "up to here and no further," and then it happens. I'm just thinking of "not a penny to Greece." Eventually, we transferred 15 billion. So the question is, where is the border? What does the VVD say: to here and no further? Then the MFF: is 1% GDP the limit for the FVD? Or is there 1.3%, 1.2%, 1.1% to talk about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u87	Those negotiations are still ongoing. There too, I believe, is the commitment of the cabinet, and also that of the VVD. We want to keep the situation as it is today. I do not know what to say more than that is our commitment to these negotiations. Those negotiations are still ongoing. The cabinet also points out that this is a complex discussion with the various parties. But I also believe that the cabinet is still on the line of a tight ceiling for the MFF.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u88	"The negotiations are still going on"? With Greece it was "not a penny to Greece" and then we transfer 15 billion. Now it's 1% GDP. We make $9 billion each year, $1,000 per household. And now you're saying, "negotiations are still ongoing." Is Europe a commitment for you, or is Europe a goal for you of "up to here and no further, with 9 billion we are the biggest net contributor, so not a penny extra to Brussels"? Are you saying that now or are you saying that again next year: I said that then and this year I am saying something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u89	I think I say the same thing we have been saying for a long time, as my colleague Anne Mulder has been saying for a long time about the approach to the Multiannual Financial Framework and what the Cabinet says. This is about the situation of net contributors, about how we are in it as it is today, about the reduction, about a tight ceiling and also about how we want to modernise the budget. I do not think we have kept another story now, and we are not going to keep it in the future either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u90	Please continue, Mrs. Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u91	Steps have also been taken with regard to risk reduction in banks, but we are not there yet. There is agreement on capital requirements within the framework of the Banking Union, but the trialogue on non-performing loans to banks is still ongoing. What is the current state of affairs? On these non-performing loans, the VVD still has a number of questions, because what happens to banks if they do not meet those agreed percentages? What instruments does the regulator have to intervene, act and enforce? And what progress on risk reduction should be achieved by 2020? So what if the banks don't comply? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the proven reduction of non-performing loans, the VVD considers that the risk weighting of government bonds, sound asset quality reviews and credible stress tests are important for the banks. This applies both to the discussion on the possible earlier introduction of the backstop and to the European insurance system, as recently expressed in a motion by CDA and VVD on risk reduction. A procedural agreement has now been reached on this European insurance system, but nothing is actually happening at the moment: there is going to be talk. However, according to the VVD, this cannot be done without talking about the risk reduction measures that have just been mentioned. How's the cabinet gonna make that happen? Mr. Chairman. I come to the eurozone budget. The VVD did not and does not need a euro area budget for stabilisation or shock absorption. The best way of doing this is for countries to have their housekeeping books in order and to ensure a low level of public debt. That is just what we agreed in the coalition agreement and what the four coalition parties have signed up for. In fact, such a stabilisation function now seems to be off the table as well and according to the VVD it should remain so. What does the cabinet intend to do for the euro summit? At present, only instruments for convergence and competition appear to come under the Multiannual Financial Framework. What is the difference between this and, for example, a cohesion fund, which we have had for years? If such an instrument is to be introduced within the Multiannual Financial Framework, it must be within a tight and as low a ceiling as possible, and therefore not a flexible ceiling. That is the VVD's commitment to the Multiannual Financial Framework anyway. The VVD, like the cabinet, is not in favour of new or additional own resources, such as the financial transaction tax or new bases. And for the financing of the budget, the VVD is a percentage based only on gross national income. Finally, President: the VVD considers it important for the euro summit to reaffirm the agreed package and the VVD wants to take further steps on risk reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u92	Thank you, Mrs Aukje de Vries. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u93	Mr. Chairman. Brexit means Brexit. With this statement in her candidate speech, Remainer May secured her election as party leader of the Conservatives and Prime Minister almost two and a half years ago. But we still don't know what Brexit really means. It is clear that we have gradually reached a blood-capping endgame, where the outcome is still uncertain. My group would not regret the outcome of a second referendum on the deal of the ever-fighting May versus a no-brexit, in the hope that our allies on the other side of the North Sea will decide to remain a member of our Union at the eleventh hour. After all, the United Kingdom is an ally that we cannot spare in the ongoing struggle with the South of Europe, starting near Brussels, to pursue sound financial and economic policy at its own expense. Because that's what's at stake over and over again. And it's incredibly handsome what Minister Hoekstra and his Hanseatic coalition have been fighting for each other lately, handing out rough blows, without having to take a lot of money for themselves. But we know that in the end we are fighting in a euro area dominated by the South. I'll get back to you on that. But first, let's pay attention to the common smile and concern that we couldn't suppress yesterday. Under the leadership of Macron, Salvini Italy was put in its place by the European Commission, due to an imminent EMU deficit of 2.4%, combined with a threat of unsustainable public debt. Certainly, we are very concerned about Italy, but it is incredible that protesters are bringing together French cars and street furniture and that this is leading to an additional EUR 10 billion in public spending, which threatens to bring France's EMU deficit to 3.5% in 2019. Because spending cuts, even if they are sky high, the French don't do that. If Italy is already on the Juncker penal bench with a 2.4% deficit, where is France going to hang? I am very curious to see what sanctions the European Commission has in store for France. Or do different rules apply to this country of sunflowers and solar kings, because it is France? I am very curious to see the government's view and commitment on this most remarkable issue, especially now that the European Commission seems to agree with a deficit of just under 2% in Italy. Is this percentage going to apply to France? By the way, this episode makes one more point very clear: in a euro area with these kinds of guests, as the coalition parties agreed in the coalition agreement, you should never be in favour of a euro area budget. As much as it is a heavy boxing game, allowing even larger transfers in our Union is simply rewarding extremely bad behaviour. In this context, three questions from my group. One. Even though 'eurozone budget' is now only a word with little material significance and possibly but a relatively limited amount under the new MFF of the European Union, to what extent is this not the well-known soft nose of that terribly large camel that will soon fill a far too large part of the European tent? Two. If there is any additional money to increase the competitiveness of European economies and finally converge them, does the government have the commitment not to create new facilities under the MFF? If money goes to competition and convergence, it is best to do so through the existing Structural Funds, such as research and innovation. My group welcomes the fact that in the future there will be less cohesion funds and more research and innovation. Does the cabinet share this view on design and spending targets? Three. So make sure that any money for competition and convergence is spent within the existing structures and not only when there is a threat or a crisis. It can't be a stabilisation money. If any additional money is used as stabilisation money, we will end up in this transfer union with a far too thick a finger on the back of the European Parliament. The fact that this Parliament often makes stupid statements has only been proved yesterday by the ruling on the WW. (NL) Mr President, two final points. What struck me was that the Minister was very positive about the arrangements he could have made to strengthen the position and procedures with regard to the permanent emergency fund ESM. This also applies to the so-called backstop that will be placed at the ESM. Can the Minister explain again why he considers strengthening the ESM in the interest of the Netherlands and why agreements would therefore be good? Finally. With the rapid enlargement of the EU in the last decade, the focus on the rule of law was clearly not high on the list of priorities. Does the Prime Minister agree with the Christian Union Group that this should be a priority now? Now the proposal is to link the rule of law principles to the good spending and financial management of EU money. That is one of the proposals for the new MFF. Does the cabinet agree with my group that such a means is of great importance, in addition to the well-known Article 7 procedure? How strong is the Prime Minister going to be for this? How does he assess the support for this proposal? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u94	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u95	Mr. Chairman. These are extremely turbulent times in Europe right now. In France, the barricades are burning and the entry of the President has led to a budget deficit that is now moving towards 3.5%. Moreover, the statutory minimum wage in France is now above the statutory minimum wage in the Netherlands. In Italy, we still have a budget that is actually built on quicksand and we do not know where we stand. In Britain, we follow what happens to the Brexit every hour and whether we still have a Prime Minister there. But for the Netherlands, what kind of relationship we have with the UK is even more important. Of course, that is what the British are about, but it would have been nice if they would tell us in good time what kind of relationship they want to have with the rest of Europe. Article 7 procedures are open against Hungary and Poland. Governments are falling all around us. Indeed, not a quiet summit. Mr. Chairman. There are a number of issues on the agenda at that summit. Let me say something about European monetary policy, the Brexit, the Magnitsky Act, migration, the accession of Albania and also Turkey, in case we forget that country. That is certainly a short list, as I hear the Minister of Finance say. Mr. Chairman. A compliment to the Minister for Finance for what happened last week at Ecofin, especially at the euro summit. Much has been done about the Dutch commitment. We need to start reducing risks before we start sharing. We're gonna have to stick to that very tight. No political steps are being taken towards a European deposit guarantee system, as there is no valuation of government bonds yet. It is extremely important for it to come before we talk about EDIS politically at all. Mr. Chairman. There has just been an extensive debate about it: the conclusions just literally state that there will be no euro area budget with a stabilisation function. No agreement has been reached on this. As you know, the vote on the MFF is a majority vote. To read: "We did not reach a common view on the need to design such a function." In other words, there were people who were before it, and there were people who were against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u96	This is followed by the phrase: "technical discussions continue." In other words, we agree to a euro area budget and the discussion on a stabilisation function continues. That discussion is not new. She was already there in 2012, she was already there in 2015 and in 2018 they get their way. The Netherlands simply agreed to it. I don't get it. Mr. Pieter Overzigt from the CDA is anything but naive. We know him as an incredibly opposition chamber member, even in the coalition. And now to explain this in a way that you know how it works in Europe, that you give a finger and then you lose your hand. I think this is really unwise. The Minister of Finance did his best, but he didn't make it. Now we have to send the Prime Minister to get this agreement on the euro area budget off the table. Nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u97	The conclusions clearly state that there is a need to see how to improve competitiveness and convergence. They are desperately needed in the euro area; we have seen this in Greece. Let me say that I would prefer the European Union to do something about competitiveness rather than handing out a number of funds to Poland and Hungary blindly, as in recent years. That's what we agreed on. So it's also agreed... I'm just reading it out, because at one point I agree. Instead of looking at the roaring texts of the press releases of countries, I'm going to look at the piece they've all endorsed: "The possible features of a stabilisation function were also discussed, including the unemployment insurance scheme. We did not reach a common view on the need and design of such a function. Technical discussions continuous."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u98	Will you translate it for the people who are also following this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u99	The possible ways of incorporating a stabilisation function into it were also discussed. There was also talk of an unemployment fund. We have not been able to reach agreement on this, not on the need for it and not on what it should look like. There will still be a technical discussion about it. That's what it says. Let me just say that this is being discussed and there will be an MFF, the budget of the European Union. That budget of the European Union must be adopted unanimously. If it is not adopted, the old budget will apply. And that's not the job either. So the countries that have said no to this, I would like to know whether this has not only been the Netherlands but whether there have been some allies, I suppose, will not allow this to be included in the budget for the next seven years. Then it will not be part of the budget for the next seven years, until 2027. I don't think that's wrong for a round.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u100	Let me make a final comment. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u101	However it has been muffled away, I think that it will only be more complicated in the multiannual budget because we have many more demands there: it must not rise and we want to keep the discount. The Minister of Finance will then have to go back into the boxing ring with firm demands. What I'm really worried about is this. We have always said that there should be no budgetary capacity for the euro area. We already have the European Union's multiannual budget for this. It must be used to reduce differences. That does not work, and now we are going to do so as a eurozone. This is really a step further in the transfer union, which we have actually been since Greece. I find it incomprehensible that the CDA agrees to this, when it says everywhere that it does not want a transfer union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u102	A brief response, Mr. Overzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u103	I assume this is just gonna fall under the MFF. Convergence should be promoted by the Union for a long time, but it is not enough. It was built on, with compliments to the PVV, a plastic air castle, as if you could spend something like that. If this is used under the same MFF for measures that make a country such as Italy or a country such as Greece more competitive, so that it is actually able to bring unemployment down there, I would very much welcome that compared to the current expenditure of a number of funds within the European budget. It is under the European budget; I would like that guarantee from the government. I understand Mrs Leijten's concerns, but underneath them. Mrs Leijten cannot say that regional funds are currently well spent in large parts of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u104	It is true that the euro area budget has taken a different dimension and that it is no longer the 1,000 billion of Macron, an elephant, but a small amount. But it does fall under the same flag, within the budget. My question to Mr Omtzigt is: does he not fear that, under the name of 'eurozone budget', this will not ultimately become the EU budget within the MFF through a back door, what Macron meant by the front door, albeit by 1,000 billion? That euro area budget as such is in the works. I also have the press release, which contains the word 'eurozone budget'. I agree with you that it is not the stabilisation now and I am glad that it is not in it, but we should not talk about what is not in it but about what is in it. Can you defend that? In view of your previous position, you cannot defend it, because it is a euro area budget, albeit more limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u105	I have already indicated that the problem with the euro area budget was: what do you want with a euro area budget? What didn't we want? That was quite clear: a stabilisation function and therefore a permanent transfer union to ensure that countries with large deficits and major social problems would be paid out year in and year out. These are, to some extent, the present Structural Funds. I have to say quite frankly: they are sometimes used as that capacity. What is now being proposed is that this stabilisation function will not be introduced. That's what it says in so many words. That is why I have read it literally, not the roaring press releases of our Ministry of Finance or the roaring press releases of the French Ministry of Finance, then I have to do even more translation work, Mr President, although your French is excellent, but just what it says. What do we do? Maybe we should have done that 15 years ago. Instead of paying out all kinds of structural funds, we are looking at how to become more economically competitive. If only we had done that with Greece fifteen years ago. Maybe you have to tell a country a carrot sometimes to get through a certain reform. Perhaps that is far more sensible than what we have tried in Europe over the past 15 years, with the mess that we have found with Greece and at the moment Italy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u106	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u107	I have a press release here. It's in English, but I'll say it in Dutch. As regards the instruments of competence and convergence, France and Germany have proposed an architecture for a euro area budget, which will be part of the EU budget. Its size is now determined by the "will be determined', so it is determined by the Heads of State within the framework of the MFF. That is why it says literally that within the MFF there will be a euro area budget for convergence and competition. My question is whether this is on top of the ceiling that we had in mind and whether you would also like to make own resources available for that purpose. Or are you saying that we all do not want that and it should remain under a low ceiling? That's suggested by the VVD, but I don't know what that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u108	But Mr Omtzigt is going to give another answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u109	Well, no, I'm not gonna answer that, because I just asked that question. I think it's very interesting, but I just told you this. Yeah, inside the ceiling, and that ceiling should be as low as possible. But let me just tell you that two minutes ago in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u110	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u111	It is good that the ceiling may be low, but it now states that there will be a euro area budget. My point is that once it is legal and economic in that MFF, it becomes a bigger animal because the principle is then there. We all know that goes further and that the stabilisation will be added in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u112	No, it doesn't have that stabilisation in it. That will not mean that they are convinced in France that they no longer want them. So if you ask "will there be any discussions about the stabilisation function?', I will say: yes, of course France will raise that again. Don't be under any illusions about that. They'd be crazy if they didn't. But here the Netherlands has clearly said: we are not going to do that. It's all over the MFK. If the British are going out of the European Union, I will come back to that in a moment, then in principle all those countries that are in the European Union are still members of the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u113	The fact that the funds referred to by Mr Van Rooijen come under the MFF means that all Member States are concerned, and not just the euro area. Isn't that the smart move? It cannot be a euro area budget, because all Member States are talking about it. How does Mr Omtzigt see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u114	The second point I made to Mr Bruins is that, if the Brexit continues, I will come back to that in a moment. In principle, only one country will not join the euro area, and that is Denmark. That country has a permanent derogation clause. All these other countries still have the aspiration to join. If you ask me if I would rather have an instrument used for reform in Member States or for the construction of plastic castles, then my answer is somewhat advisable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u115	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u116	Mr President, let the time pass. Looks like I've got some time left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u117	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u118	Indeed, the framework in which that is contained is the framework of the multiannual budget. This means that the Commission is involved and the Commission is of all Member States. This does not create a new euro area parliament or a euro area committee. No, it is the entire Commission that is dealing with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u119	Please continue. I will give you the floor in a moment, Mr Van Dijck, but I would nevertheless like Mr Omtzigt to continue with his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u120	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the second point that has to do with EMU. That has to do with the non-performance loans. There is now a termsheet which states how soon the resolution fund's backstop will be placed with the ESM. I believe that everyone has lost us now, but that is a very important subject. That is the subject: what happens to banks when they go bankrupt? Then they have to be settled, so anyone entitled to their money must get their money back. And where does the loss end up? Well, first with the national Member States and the national resolution fund, and finally with the European resolution fund. Now we have always said that we want risk reduction first and only then the risk sharing, including through that resolution fund. Now there's a term sheet that says: in 2020 we'll see if there's enough risk reduction, and then maybe we'll do it. But in 2023, we'll just do it. But if there is insufficient risk reduction in 2023, I say to the government, because there are just zombie banks in parts of Europe, how can we stop it from coming from the resolution fund of the ESM, which we all paid for? In Cyprus, Greece and parts of Italy there are still zombie banks. And may I say that I am not really at ease about the Deutsche Bank or the Commerzbank either? Where is the point where these banks are not all automatically admitted to the resolution fund unless we say they are healthy enough? I want a clear answer to that, because I think that the Netherlands should be able to stop it. This would be in line with the previous commitment of the Minister of Finance, who has been extremely clear earlier in this House. If necessary, it will be a back-up of a euro, but they will not be given access to the fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u121	My question concerns the previous point. It is actually more about the nutrition of the euro area budget. I read everywhere that it is being forced through the MFF and a Member State contribution and/or through own resources. I'm not comfortable with the "own resources." They come back every time, whether it's CO emission allowances, the CCCTB, so the harmonised corporate tax, a plastic tax, a financial transaction tax...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u122	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u123	So the European Commission is trying to get the finger out of a tax from all sides, because then it will have its own resources and a button to turn on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u124	And the question is, Mr. Van Dijck?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u125	And the question is whether the CDA also draws a hard line in the sand, or does it say that there is talk about own resources, as D66 says?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u126	No, we do not like these own resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u127	Was that the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u128	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u129	"We do not see ourselves," we hear more often, but in the end it happens. So the question is: isn't there a single resource of the list I just mentioned that the CDA will ever sign? So the CO allowances, the CCCTB, the plastic tax and the FTT.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u130	We're not in the FTT lead group. That's thanks to a motion from my party. So you may ask, but the answer to this question is guessed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u131	All those abbreviations, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u132	The FTT is the financial transaction tax. That means you pay a small tax on every financial transaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u133	The meaning doesn't have to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u134	You ask and you get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u135	No, it's not about me. The point is that people who are following this debate know what it is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u136	That's what I'm trying to do. The financial transaction tax is a tax of a small sum on each financial transaction, for example a derivative. This would hit the Dutch pension funds extremely hard, because they need those derivatives to cover their risk...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u137	That's your opinion. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u138	Yeah, that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u139	You don't have to explain it to me. It was just a small explanation of the abbreviation, so that people can possibly...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u140	But if I just say what the abbreviation stands for, I don't think everyone understands what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u141	No, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u142	We are a very fierce opponent of this as the Netherlands. I understand that this plastic tax is already off the table in Brussels. So we don't have to do that here. The PVV Group, Mr Van Dijck, saw that too. The same applies to the CO tax. I shall come back to that later on with the In fact, it's placed on cold ice, so it can't be used at all as its own. That is the situation at the moment. Mr. Chairman. There's one other thing I want to know. The euro area reform has so far assumed that countries are genuinely trying to improve their economies. But it could also be that this is not the case. I can, of course, ask the government whether it has plans to do something if a country does not solve its problems in the banking sector and does not comply with the Maastricht criteria. But I think I'm going to propose asking for an additional opinion from the Council of State. Although, of course, it would be desirable for the agreements to be adhered to, we share that throughout the Chamber, that is not a guarantee that this will happen in the near future. In fact, France has failed to comply with the 3% standard in nine of the last ten years and will not do so next year. So it's not just a hypothetical case. Southern Europe starts quite quickly south of the Netherlands. If one country goes bankrupt, we all suffer from it. If one banking system explodes, we all suffer from it. I therefore ask the government to ask the Council of State for advice on what the Dutch steps might be in the context of non-cooperation. Otherwise, I'll consider doing it myself. Mr President, I will turn to the Brexit. That withdrawal agreement looks dead now. It is exceptional what your colleague in the British Parliament has done. After four days, he turned the government terribly upside down because she ended the debate without a vote. What happens now? There's an extra Brexittop. I would like to hear the Dutch government's commitment to this Brexit Summit. How can anything come of it? It is clear to the CDA Group. It's up to the British to choose. The deal, no deal and in the Union remain open as options. But would you please insist that they inform the European partners in good time of what option they are choosing? For our customs and for our exporters, it means quite a lot whether they choose one option or the other. It doesn't just affect Britain. And can the Prime Minister tell us why we have only taken 115 customs officers? Then there must be an emergency plan for Customs. Is that emergency plan in place on March 29th? In other words, which cases are we not going to control anymore? Mr. Chairman. A compliment to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for what he did with the Omtzitt motion c.s. About Magnitsky. I agree with Mr Van Ojik: it is a good thing to get everyone on the same page. This is not easy in a Union of 27 or 28 Member States. I would like to know what the next hurdles are, but also whether the Prime Minister is prepared, together with the Foreign Minister, to ensure that the name Magnitsky, which it all started, remains on this initiative. Will the Prime Minister promise that it will become the Magnitsky Act, the Magnitsky Regulation or something like that in effect? Mr. Chairman. We talk a lot about migration, but can I just ask what has been done about what was agreed in June? There is a long list of agreements with countries in Africa on migration, but I do not see it. I would also like to know what is going on with cooperation with Italy and sending people back to Italy through the IND. Is Italy a safe country? A summit between the EU and Africa will take place on 17 and 18 December. Steps must be taken to strengthen the economic relationship between the EU and Africa. This is in line with Juncker's proposals to strengthen the links between the two continents. Will the Minister for Trade accompany the Prime Minister to this summit? And are there any treaties, compacts or anything else being closed? The CDA is in favour of deepening the economic relationship between the EU and Africa, but with credible agreements to take back its own nationals. We would like to receive another letter by Thursday morning, which includes the government's commitment to this EU-Africa summit, which is quite important. Mr. Chairman. Last month, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on Albania, calling for talks to be opened with Albania on accession to the EU. I would just like to add that we voted against it, because Albania is not at all ready for it as far as we are concerned, because of corruption, interference by Turkey and so on. Can the government ensure that this does not happen for the time being and can it take this position at the summit? Mr. Chairman. Turkey is currently playing on the moral high ground with Mr Khashoggi, who was murdered in Turkey. But the recent reports about incognito black site prisons where Turkey itself holds people are very, very worrying. CPT reports on prisons after the coup have also not been released. Will the government press for proper investigations by the European Union into how Turkey is dealing with human rights at the moment? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u143	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u144	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting until quarter to two. First, we have the farewell of a colleague and the swearing-in of a new colleague, then we have the arrangement of work and then we proceed with the first term of the government and the second term of the Chamber in this debate.
