ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u1	I give the floor to Mr Van der Molen, on behalf of the CDA, for his question on the AIVD hack team to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, whom I warmly welcome. I call Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Last week, Nieuwsuur and de Volkskrant did extensive reports on the Dutch involvement in the investigation of Russian interference in the American elections. The first conclusion that we could draw from the coverage, even though the Minister can neither confirm nor deny the coverage, is that our AIVD is doing a good job to protect us and our interests. The Dutch services have had access to a group of hackers, who, according to Western intelligence services, acted on behalf of the Russian state. Suddenly, the AIVD has played a crucial role in what might be the biggest diplomatic riot in Russia's interference. It is good that we know that now, because what a small country can be big in is reflected in the reports. But the CDA does raise the necessary questions, because the success of our intelligence services is still most assured if they can do their job in secret. Where our police have to solve crimes once they have happened, our intelligence agencies must try to prevent that crime. This cannot, by definition, be done in public. Journalists have shown a nice piece of journalism, but de facto the behaviour of the intelligence services is on the streets. You may be proud of the fact that the outside world knows what we are capable of, but that also carries risks and violates the effectiveness with which we can protect ourselves and our interests. According to Nieuwsuur and de Volkskrant, in the Netherlands and in the USA, there were about fifteen sources of diplomacy and politics, but also the intelligence world. According to these sources, six of them had direct knowledge of what was going on. That is why we would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a number of questions. First of all, does the Minister now have an idea of what exactly happened and how this information came to lie on the street? What steps has the Minister perhaps taken in the meantime to find out exactly what happened? Doesn't she have to want to know? Does the Minister have any indication that confidential information has been provided from the Dutch side? What is the impact of this on the work of our intelligence services? Is that noticeable at the moment? In the report, the journalists indicate that they have also spoken with sources in the United States. My final question is what this says about the confidentiality with which the Netherlands can exchange information with the United States?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that I fully understand that last week a certain orange feeling of some people was mastered, as Mr Van der Molen put it. At the same time, I took every conceivable variant of "no comment" in my mouth on Friday. That's what I'm maintaining today. I cannot comment on the reports of the Volkskrant and Nieuwsuur of Thursday and Friday, because I can never go into cases. I can well imagine Mr Van der Molen's questions, but I think it is important to say in a general answer that we naturally have good agreements on the responsibility for the work of the services, also and perhaps in relation to the Chamber. It is public where it can be done, for example through the annual reports, and decided where to do it. That's the way it works. I think that is a very good embedding of responsibility. So I can't say anything about it here. In general, we are well organized with each other and can talk about specific situations in another place. Therefore, I cannot comment on this case now and here. In fact, all the follow-up questions put by Mr Van der Molen are a direct result of the reports you received last week. So here too, I would just like to say in general terms and in general terms that the work of both services is done in confidence. It is done within the framework of the current law and the same applies to the supervision of the work of the AIVD. I am sorry that I cannot give a more specific answer to Mr Van der Molen's questions, but that is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u5	I just made a plea myself to do as much behind the scenes as possible, but that was very focused on the AIVD itself. I would have done my best to write down these questions in such a way that they gave some room to the Minister, at least in general terms, to address, for example, the fairly clear question of whether she already has an image. If she replied yes, that would reassure me. If you had given a general answer to the question of whether it already has an impact, it was already colorful. So I didn't ask you about the specific situation. The essence of my questions was whether you have a picture of what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u6	Not "you," but "the minister."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u7	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Has the Minister taken any steps to bring that up yet? What does the Minister intend to do with that? In my view, it is perfectly possible to go into this further in general terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u8	Then I shall do so in the most general terms. I would like to say to Mr Van der Molen that in general I have a very good picture of the work that the AIVD is doing and has done. In consultation with the AIVD and, if necessary, the CIVD, I can of course discuss this further. However, I do not want to go into the case. I would like to say to Mr van der Molen that he does not have to worry about the points he has just raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u9	Finally, Mr. Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u10	That's very common, but I'll just have to deal with that. I would like to take this opportunity to make another point to the Minister. One of the reactions was very explicit: see what the AIVD can do with the powers it already has. Others attached the new Intelligence and Security Services Act to that. That wouldn't be necessary anymore because the AIVD can do a lot already. I would like a response from the Minister to that response that has been expressed in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u11	That is a general question: is the new legal framework necessary because of new technological developments? My answer to that general question is: yes, that is necessary, because according to the current law, the services can only act if there is a specific organization or person, so that you can start there. At the same time, we see that by developing the technology and using the cable malicious people there share information with each other, without being able to say at the beginning that you have a specific institution or person in your sights. These new technological possibilities can now be fully exploited by the evildoers, and the services at the front cannot intervene or interpret them. The new law does offer this possibility, and it is embedded in a system of supervision that is even stronger than the current system. For this reason, I believe that these new powers are necessary in order to be able to do that work even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman. Recently, many citizens have been affected by the hacking of banks and government institutions. Now we have read the reports that the Netherlands participates with large countries to hack into the enemies of large countries. Is this the result? Are we gonna get caught back? Then who's gonna pay for the damage? If we join large countries to hack other countries, we will be hacked back. If you hack, you'll get hacked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u14	I do not really want to go along with the assumption behind this question, but it is a fact that large-scale hacks have been a problem for some time now, for us and for other countries. It's also a fact that it's hard to trace where those hacks start. The fact is, as we heard yesterday from Mr Schoof, the NCTV, that over the last few days we have seen the development of indeed large-scale attacks on banks and other institutions that have been turned down. The Dutch government is very alert to this and the institutions concerned must also be very alert. It is also a new development of technology which is potentially disruptive and which we must be very alert to, and we are, at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u15	A lot of citizens are worried about their own accounts, about their privacy. When the cabinet puts on a large pair of pants, together with the AIVD, to help large countries, it is beautiful, but the result is that they cannot get to their account or other data and therefore suffer from it. Someone has to pay for that damage. Who would pay for the damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u16	Once again, I leave the assumption behind the question to the questioner. The attacks have been resisted. I think we have been able to do so, and the banks have also shown that to protect the digital infrastructure. We've been through this before. I fear that this can happen more often in the future, but we must remain very vigilant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr Van Raak, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr President, I did not leak. I'm really impressed when I see what the AIVD can do with the current law. That is also proof to me that there is no need for a tow law, in which information from innocent citizens is loaded massively. But the publications are gone. Whether there's been a leak from the Secret Service or from the American Secret Service, I don't know, but there's information on the street. What I would like as a representative of the people, as a member of this Chamber, is for us to be informed about this. What's true, what's not true? What the hell is going on? I ask the Minister to inform us confidentially as committees and I ask the Minister if she is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u19	I'm always willing to inform the Chamber, also confidentially. In the case of the services, there is also a committee specifically responsible for this, so I am always prepared to do so. I will do so either actively or on request. The other assumption of Mr Van Raak, which he started his question with, was about a leak. That's where I need to be consistent. If I say that I cannot go into the coverage, I cannot, of course, go into the possible sources of this communication either. That would not be consistent and I do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mr Van Raak means another committee. Please explain, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u21	I don't mean the committee secretly, because then it stays secretly for us. I mean, is the Minister prepared to inform the Home Affairs and Defence Committees confidentially about these leaks, about these publications? What is true of that and what is not true of that? What else is going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u22	I have just said that we have made a good deal of agreement on democratic control of the work of the intelligence and security services. It means that there is a committee of your Chamber which discusses such matters. It seems logical to me to follow that normal path. So I'll put it back a little bit to your room, knowing that this construction exists. I would ask you to use the usual construction for this. Let us not now use another special construction that brings with it all kinds of limitations. I hear Mr Van Raak and I am always willing to provide all the information that is requested through the CIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you.
