ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the continuation of the first time-limit on the part of the Chamber for the joint examination of the legislative proposals already mentioned. I won't repeat them again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the SP Group, I will address three issues. Firstly, on the proposed change in income tax in relation to the growing income disparities in our country. Secondly, the reduction in the tax on profits in the context of growing profits. Thirdly, the measures against tax avoidance and their impact on the necessary investments of housing corporations in the construction and sustainability of their rental homes. The differences in income in our country are slowly but surely increasing. If you look at the development of the highest and lowest 10% of household income, that picture is very clear. How does the Cabinet react to this? With its tax policy, does it ensure a balanced income development? No, I'm afraid not. According to the cabinet, 20% of households with the lowest incomes will improve purchasing power by 1.1% next year, those with a minimum income even 0.9% and those with higher income groups 1.7%. According to the coalition agreement, this difference will also increase in the coming years. In total, if these government figures are correct, low incomes will be 2.5% below higher incomes. Why does the cabinet choose to do this? I'm asking the Secretary of State. This increase in income disparities was already at the disadvantage of the low-income people in the electoral programmes of the government parties. So I also ask: why do you choose this? That percentage of progress for low-income people is therefore highly questionable. The CPB assumes in the calculation that next year's wages will increase more than prices, but unfortunately that may be disappointing again. The CPB assumes without any justification that the increase in the low VAT rate from 6% to 9% affects all income groups equally. We expect that the lower income groups will be hit relatively harder by this, leaving even less of that percentage of progress. Therefore, the SP is against this VAT increase. As part of the so-called fiscal greening measures, the tax reduction in the energy tax will be reduced by €51. This means that every household has to pay more €51 per year. The CPB has calculated that due to energy tax policy, lower incomes will fall by 0.2% next year and high incomes will increase by 02.0% more than the rates of income development I mentioned earlier. Can the Secretary of State confirm that? All in all, people with low incomes in the coming year will notice little or nothing about economic growth, while the people who are already well off are getting more and more. The manufacturer of yellow jackets can rub his hands in the hands. And then he will have to pay even less tax on his profits, because the cabinet proposes a drastic reduction in the tax on profits of companies, corporate tax, from 21% to 16% in the first tranche, and from 25% to 20.5% in the second tranche. The SP Group does not see why the tax on ever-increasing profits should be reduced. We're thinking of an increase. The cabinet argues that the Netherlands should bring the percentage of corporation tax below the average of the countries of the European Union for a good locational environment, but that it does not want to lead a race to the bottom, because companies have to continue to pay a reasonable share of the taxes. This requires a great deal of balancing, and the cabinet fails to do so because, following the lapse of the foolish proposal to abolish the dividend tax, it immediately proposed a further reduction of corporation tax by a small billion euros a year than the balanced proposal from the government agreement. Does the Secretary of State share my conclusion that the proposed reduction of the Vpb can no longer be called balanced, but rather an additional step in the race to the bottom? Mr. Chairman. Overall, after a few steps in 2021, the profit tax will be reduced by EUR 4.2 billion per year. Count out your winnings. The Cabinet states that this amount is actually lower, because measures are also being taken that broaden the Vpb base and add up to EUR 2.2 billion per year in 2021. So at the end of the reigning period, if it lasts for at least a long time, we hope not to do so, but I would like to take this as a starting point in 2021 for a reduction in the net income tax of EUR 2 billion per year for companies that do not need it at all. Next, on behalf of the Cabinet, the Secretary of State expects measures to be decided on which, after 2021, further broaden the corporate tax base by EUR 1.5 billion, leaving only a small reduction in the tax on corporate profits in ten years on balance. We cannot go along with this presentation of things. For it is very possible that the next governments, which want to keep the tax on corporate profits low because of the locational climate, will continue to lower the rate of corporation tax after 2021, especially if right-wing coalitions come into power again. May the voter avoid that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u4	Do I understand that Mr Köhler says: I do not think that the current proposal is fair, because I anticipate future Cabinets that are going to change this again? Because the basic measures are, of course, not good news for business. But you're saying it's good news anyway, because it's gonna change again? Do I understand you so well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u5	No, then I must have expressed myself unclearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u6	I was hoping.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u7	Look, we say it's way too much. This broadening of the basis, which we are in favour of in itself, does not outweigh that. Then at the end of the government's reign, when all these reductions have been made and the base has been widened in 2021, there is a net EUR 2 billion per year to reduce the tax on profits, and we are opposed to that. The government has an additional argument: yes, but we are also taking decisions which will further broaden the basis in the future and that net sum will, of course, be different. But we do not want to take that far forward, because it is not at all said that the corporate tax rate will not be adjusted again from 2022 or 2023/2024 until 2028.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u8	To conclude: I have to think about the new collection of Lévi Weemut: Pessimism can be learned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u9	I welcome the fact that you consider the further reduction of the VPB rates to be pessimistic in advance. You are obviously not happy with that, and we do not think that is a tempting prospect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u10	As you rightly say, corporate tax is about rates and bases, and ultimately about the effective rate. I think he has quoted correctly from what I have read, namely the answers given to the written questions put by the SP Group. But what I don't understand is the conclusion he draws. Because in the structural picture, the government's calculations, as you say, end up with 500 million reliefs after 2021. But that is on the basis of measures that are still being taken during this cabinet period. I think you're comparing two things. Because you say: I will not go along with that, because the rates can be reduced after 2021. No, the base will be extended further in the period 2018 to 2021. That's just a fact. Just look at the whole package that is coming at us from the EU alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u11	I have also said that the cabinet is structuralally calculating the broadening of the base until 2028. But this is not how we want to calculate, because there is no agreement whatsoever that no new measures will be taken on tariffs, but also on the basis from 2022 onwards. In order to compare it objectively, and that is what we are trying to do, you can only count until the end of this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u12	I would very briefly like to join Mr Backer in saying that this is a considerable degree of pessimism. Anyway, we're not gonna convince each other on this. I found the calculation of the government very clear in response to the good questions put by the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u13	Apparently, Mr Van Rij also thinks it is pessimistic if you think that the Vpb will be further reduced after 2021. So in that sense, we welcome him to our camp. But, yes, there is no certainty about that. That is why I prefer to compare the real amounts. But even if you do not do all that, as he does not want to do, there is still a net reduction in the tax on profits in 2028, which we would rather say should be raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u14	I'm just gonna limit myself to today and the Tax Plan 2019 package. I believe that the Secretary of State has calculated that the income from corporation tax has remained virtually constant over the years and is expected to remain so. Does Mr Köhler agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u15	Yes, if you look at longer periods, for example over the past 10 or over the past 20 years, the income from corporation tax as a percentage of gross domestic product has remained broadly the same. If you express the profits over the last 20 years as a share of gross domestic product, you can see that the relative pressure of the profit tax has been very reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u16	I note that in the past the rates have been substantially reduced to 48% for corporation tax, but I am glad that Mr Köhler confirmed that. I have no further questions on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The cabinet also makes proposals to counter tax avoidance by companies by shifting money across national borders. These proposals will of course receive the support of the SP Group. But we don't think they're going far enough. According to recent publications Shell pays very little or no profit tax in the Netherlands. Firstly, the company in the Netherlands can deduct interest on loans used to invest abroad. Secondly, the company may lose the profits it suffers in the search for oil or gas abroad, in the Netherlands, while profits from the extraction of oil and gas abroad are not taxed in the Netherlands. I ask the Secretary of State, Mr Shell, apart from this example, as he cannot say anything about it, whether both structures can continue after the adoption of the proposals against tax avoidance which are now before us. Mr. Chairman. The limitation of the corporate tax rate is considered desirable by the Cabinet for two reasons. Firstly, to prevent tax avoidance. Secondly, not to favour debt investment as much as investing with equity anymore. This promotes working with own funds. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats agrees with both of these objectives. The housing corporations are also affected by this, because they also pay corporate tax. According to the Cabinet, this is inevitable by the law of the European Union. We doubt that, but I shall leave that discussion aside. It is clear that neither of the two arguments for limiting the interest deduction apply to the housing corporations. They do not shift interest payments and profits across national borders and, on the contrary, they need to attract additional debt in order to be able to invest sufficiently in the new construction of affordable rental homes and the sustainability of their existing homes. The cabinet could therefore have excluded the corporations from this measure. However, according to the government, this cannot be brought into line with EU law. We also doubt that. There is an alternative: the unintentional increase in corporation tax for housing corporations fully offset by an equally large reduction in the landlord's tax. The cabinet says to do this more or less, but we see it differently. By limiting the interest deduction, the corporations will gradually pay more corporate tax. Structurally, this amounts to EUR 353 million per year. The cabinet withdraws EUR 106 million from this, because lower rates of Vpb, corporate tax, also continues to apply to corporations. So far we can follow the reasoning. But then the cabinet also subtracts 100 million from the landlord levy. And also the 104 million discount on the landlord's tax as corporations invest in the sustainability of their rental homes. That's not true, of course. If corporations use this money for sustainability, they will no longer be able to compensate for the increase in corporation tax. Therefore, there is a significant burden increase from 2022 onwards. It's at the expense of the space for investment. Aedes, the association of housing corporations, calculated that the autonomous development of the landlord's tax and corporate tax, together with the limitation of the interest deduction, will increase the tax burden of the corporations by EUR 1 billion in 2021. From over 2 to over 3 billion euros per year. This means that every tenant will pay €100 per month in state taxes. I asked the cabinet to respond to that calculation of the 1 billion a year tax increase by the corporations. In his reply, the Secretary of State hardly wants to do so. He states on most points that the Empire does not plan to do so in this way in the context of the budget. I'm sure that's true, but that doesn't take away the problem at all. From all over the country, we are receiving reports from housing corporations and municipalities that the increase in the tax burden is putting the necessary new construction and sustainability of rental homes at risk. "We look like the ATM from The Hague," says Ger Peeters on behalf of the Limburg corporations about the increasing tax burden. Seven Flevoland corporations wrote a letter on the effects of the limitation of the interest deduction. "We can build 1,450 fewer homes or 5,000 less sustainable," says Arjan Deutekom, director of the corporation GoedeStede from Almere. The accumulation of taxes means that the Tilburg corporations can build 300 instead of 1,500 homes until 2021. "It's a sum of fiscal misery," says René Scherpenisse on their behalf. The four Apeldoorn corporations have calculated that they have lost 7 million by limiting the interest deduction. "It soon rises to 140 million that we can invest less," says Arjen Jongstra, chairman of their partnership. According to Egbert de Vries, director of the Amsterdam Federation of Housing Corporations, the reduction in interest relief allows them to build 30 million additional taxes in 2022, 10% less homes. And that in a city with a huge shortage of affordable homes. Mr. Chairman. The government reacts rather lukewarmly to these misfortunes. For the moment, she thinks the housing corporations' investment space is big enough. After consulting the corporations, she will take another look at it and then report back to the House of Representatives next year on the state of play. We think that is a much too laconical attitude of the cabinet. The theorem "regulating is forwards" is replaced by "regulating is forwards" here. The worst thing is that the government doesn't at all say what it's going to do if the investigation shows that the increasing tax burden on corporations is indeed too limited in their investment space, so they can't achieve the agreed new construction and sustainability of homes. We want it now to be established that the cabinet will then make additional proposals so that house production and improvement do not fall back. To this end, and on behalf of Mrs Sent, Mr Binnema, Mrs Baay and Mr Ten Hoeve, I shall table a motion. This replaces the Van Apeldoorn motion which was held at the General Financial Reviews. The President shall: Mr Köhler, Mr Sent, Mr Binnema, Mr Baay-Timmerman and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as a result of the proposed reduction in interest relief, the landlord levy and higher corporation tax impose a burden on housing corporations in such a way that there is a risk that many corporations will not have sufficient investment space to implement the agreed programmes for the construction and sustainability of social housing and that insufficient new buildings will leave the waiting lists of social housing unacceptably long;]] [[noting that the government has promised that the Minister of BZK, after consulting the corporations, will look again at the available investment space and report to the House of Representatives next spring;]] [[calls on the Government to provide additional measures in order to enable these programmes to be implemented in the coming years if it appears that this investment area is insufficient to implement the agreed new construction and sustainability programmes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35030-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u18	Mr. Chairman. As always, we are curious about the response of the Secretary of State to our questions and comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u19	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. I give the floor to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the presence of the Minister of OCW throughout the debate, while only a small part of it affects her department. However, this is a better way of working than the way it has gone on the other side, where the treatment has been split up by discussing tax measures separately from what would replace them. This gave rise to the impression that there was insufficient visibility of the effects. I shall come back to the content of the subject later. I shall begin by congratulating the cabinet on behalf of the D66 Group, and in particular, of course, the Secretary of State, that this is the first entirely separate Tax Plan submitted by this cabinet. I also support the point made by Mr Van de Ven, who expresses his thanks to the department for the technical briefing, which we have been able to learn a great deal from. The plan will cover the expenditure of the state budget, which contains a lot of good news, as my colleague Rinnooy Kan has widely measured in the General Financial Reviews. It is a multifaceted package, so I have to make a choice for this plenary contribution. The fraction of D66 is content with at least three trends, which I will discuss later. These are trends within the existing system. The Tax Plan is also a reasonably successful attempt to implement the Hoekstra motion. I didn't want to leave that discussion entirely unspoken. I note that there is sufficient balance between unity and diversity. This involved in particular the pooling of the proposals for the Business Act 2019. This was topical in the taxation of dividends, not anymore, but it is good that our activities with regard to legislative principles have anticipating effect. Mr. Chairman. Then, of course, there are the criteria known to us as 'legal','sustainable' and 'executable'. In fiscal literature the criteria "fair," "effective," "efficient" and "simple" also apply. I would like to look at Mr Van Rij and think of Professor Stevens, who often uses these criteria. Against "simple" these proposals are quite often sinned. We have just discussed this once in the event of interruption: "fair" and "simple" are already opposite each other; think of box 3. For example, in terms of 'effective' and 'efficient', I have to think of the discussion we have had on marginal pressures and tax reductions. I'm not blaming this cabinet for that. That's building an existing house: there's a porch, door or stairs every time, and then you get that complexity. That is why I would like to start by talking about what it could be and looking ahead to another system. I've arranged it under the heading of future surveillance. Mr. Chairman. This is the last of the Chamber's tax plans in this composition. The Secretary of State has announced on the other side that he is looking for building blocks for a system review. It has also been mentioned earlier today. So this is also the last time that the D66 Group can anticipate this, and I am doing so. One of the five principles of social liberalism is: reward achievement and share prosperity. Another principle is to strive for a sustainable and harmonious society. Taxation has to do with both. I would like to dwell on the question of whether we are future-proof on the basis of these principles. There are plenty of signals that make us think. I refer to the discussion on the labour market and the discussion onzzp'ers and payrollers: the system of social security and taxation is very difficult to deal with. In the event of a rapid development of the digital and internationalising world, in cross-border transactions taxation often has to check. There are also very different business models. We didn't discuss it, but Mr.Ester raised the same issue: Uber, Airbnb, Booking.com, Amazon and all other globalising models. Apart from this, the current tax system has created a mismatch between labour taxation and pollution taxation. This subject has, of course, been raised before. I should also like to look in the direction of Mrs Van Leeuwen, who will perhaps raise this subject in the near future, like Mr Koffeman. I am also thinking of the plea that D66 colleagues on the other side regularly maintain a better price for the withdrawal of raw materials. The debate we are having on climate and the question of how to promote externalities, such as CO, is not yet fundamentally integrated into this tax system. I will mention the greening measures as a trend break, but the discussion already shows that we are going to run into the boundaries of the system. This weekend, the flight tax proposal was announced: a response to the fact that the system often does not give the right incentives to reach Europe 2020 and the Sustainable Development Goals. Again it provokes many reactions, but I think it is understandable that we are going that way. However, we are also aware of the trap of tax instrumentalism, which we have already mentioned this morning for three words. That is often the solution that is being chosen now, because there is really nothing else available. But that's not the end of the discussion, Mr. Chairman. I cannot go into this in detail either, but I would like to point out that when the Secretary of State talks about building blocks for a reform of the system, he should really start thinking through its foundations. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the publication of an Ex'tax Project:New era, new plan. Europe. A fiscal strategy for an inclusive, circular economy. It is a project from Utrecht, 2016. This is a very thorough and very readable study of an alternative strategy. I would like to commend this study to the Secretary of State and ask him to have his department do any research into the existence of this study. Mr. Chairman. After formulating a desirable system, of course, the difficult and complex transition follows.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u21	Mr Backer refers to building blocks on which a tax system should and could be built. The Van Dijkhuizen Committee made recommendations in 2013. I would like to invite Mr Backer to put the plan before us along the deadline of the Van Dijkhuizen Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u22	Thank you for the supplement, which I will of course pass on to the Secretary of State. There has also been a Van Weeghel committee. I believe that the rhythm of a tax review is about 25 years. We should be accelerating that now. Both Van Dijkhuizen and Van Weeghel are still very traditional in the approach to these issues. I think we need to go a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u23	This, of course, raises the question of how Mr Backer thinks we should go beyond the recommendation of the Van Weeghel Committee and the Van Dijkhuizen Committee. And then that raises the question of how the present plan relates to its ideas on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u24	I am thinking in particular of the large shift from labour taxation to raw materials and the internalisation of real costs. That is, of course, a very big transition. We have just talked about the flight tax and other matters, and in a co-operative European field difficult to achieve. That is why I said that you should approach that plan European. But that goes a little further than the traditional approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u25	Finally, Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u26	Finally. Can I conclude, then, that Mr Backer agrees with me that there are too few reforms in the tax package before us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u27	That is actually the logic of my speech. On the other hand, I am going to praise the cabinet in detail for at least a number of trends that are there. Mr President, that is where I come in. Let me come back to the point: as a political group, we are extremely persistent when it comes to changes that are very difficult. Sometimes we are successful in this, sometimes we have to wait longer, but I am optimistic about Mr Köhler's view that this is possible in the long term. Then I will return to the proposals as they stand, in particular the 2019 Tax Plan and first the other fiscal measures. I mentioned the trend break that can be seen in reducing the burden on citizens and businesses in direct taxation. I would like to point out that, in general, a balanced distribution of burdens and requirements has been achieved. The traditional debate on point clouds, the marginal pressure for a earner and the alleged disadvantage of one or another is now inevitable, and rightly so. The previous speaker looks very differently at this issue than I do, but I believe that a sensible, serious and balanced effort has been made to achieve the best possible outcome, both at macro level and at the level of taxpayers. The trend break is the choice, in particular, of adjustments for the public's disposable income. We welcome this step-by-step increase over the next three years. The crisis measures of recent years, I am also taking responsibility for these measures, because in the constructive opposition we have even supported a number of them, which are the cause of heavy burdens. These have been taken into account in the basic path and, in the case of unchanged policies, they continue. That's why it's a good thing we're adjusting course now. The fraction of D66 sees these two discs, which is called the "social flat tax," not as a step towards further simplification of the real flat tax. This would not increase the average tax and contribution burden as income increases. We still believe that this principle is fair. We read in the explanatory memorandum on page 5 that this still applies. We regularly talk about poverty in this house. Members of the SP are often the driving force behind it and specifically about children. The 2019 Millions Note contains a number of actions that the Empire is going to take to reduce the poverty trap. At present, an income of between 100% and 150% of the minimum wage, i.e. between €21,000 and €32,000, reduces the tax rebates and surcharges quickly, so that people do not benefit from these measures net and even decline. In 2019, adjustments will be made to the employment discount, the rent allowance and the child-related budget, which will make working for this income group pay. That was the thought behind it. The cabinet does this, among other things, through the introduction of these discs. In doing so, many adjustments have been made to the tax rebates in order to obtain as fair a result as possible. I can see Mr Schalk getting up; I suspect he does not think the results are fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u28	Let me start with the poverty line instead of the single-earners. An income of €21,000 to €32,000 per year shows a huge marginal pressure: around 90% with an outlier to 167%. This means that if you earn €1.00 more at some point, you will have to pay €1.67. So that is not about the middle-income people of around €68,000 that Mr van de Ven talked about, but about the people who are at the bottom of the labour market and who we are chasing into the labour market. You need to make more money while we are destroying what they deserve. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u29	In my opinion, we are running into the limitations of the system here. We also have the problem of cashing. There's been a debate with Secretary of State Van Ark about what else you could do. A monitor tool has been created, especially for the municipalities, to see what it really means for all fees. You're talking about marginal pressure, but in plain Dutch it means that if you go to work and your supplement falls away because you're just above it, you haven't improved on it. The system has become very complicated and there are too many losers. I know that the Cabinet is working on it and is considering whether it can be refined further, but you are running into the limitations of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u30	It is very special that we are at least now in agreement. I therefore hope that Mr Backer will support my request to the Secretary of State to come up with options outside the political debate to look at income tax without using it as an instrument for all kinds of political purposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u31	On one point, I must disappoint you: I fear that taxes are primarily political. It is not just a question of earners, of course, but of the wider framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u32	Of course, we agree on that. We're in parliament, and this is politics. When we talk about taxes, of course, it is also political. But Mr Backer is well aware of what I mean, namely that we are currently very much in the direction of steering. This has consequences, such as that not only by my party, but by different parties. I found it extraordinary that Mr Backer, too, is in fact referring to this in detail. He spoke fine words: effectiveness, efficiency, simplicity and honesty. Let's put the tax system past those four words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u33	I'm going to continue my speech, Mr. Chairman? Thank you, Mr. Schalk, I accept your challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u34	Mrs. Sent would like to ask you a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u35	Mr Backer praised the introduction of the two-wheel system for the impact on employment. But the way in which it was finally introduced, with the accompanying measures, leads to a zero impact on employment. How does he assess its effectiveness?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u36	I am not prepared to have a zero impact on employment. To be honest, I can hardly imagine that either. I do not know the time limit for this calculation either. I believe that measures both on the business side and on the purchasing power side will ultimately contribute to the prosperity of citizens. In how many jobs that translates directly one-on-one, I couldn't say. I would like to add a few words to the discussion I just had with Mr Schalk. He was a little earlier than I was in my speech. In stylized macrocomparisons 96% of citizens experience a positive balance of these interventions. In that respect, I would say: well done. But we also have concerns, because they are stylized income charts and tables. Does that mean enough about the reduced risk of poverty, taxation and poverty? Can more be done, or does it work out better with customization? I'll take a short trip to the footnote. To reassure the Registrar, footnotes are also read in this Chamber. In the explanatory memorandum on page 4, footnote 4, it is quite clear that it concerns static purchasing power that does not see changes in family composition, living conditions, status in the labour market. None of that is taken into account. Anyway, you have to have an instrument. Overlooking, the package involves cumulatively large shifts: load relief up to 2021 from structural -4.5 billion. In the public debate, remarkably little attention has been paid to a large number of ground-breaking debt instruments, perhaps not everyone recognizes the word as tax-aggravating measures for companies, so that, on balance, the business package is not just good news for business. I would just like to briefly point out the correction in the box 2 rate and the deduction restrictions. Of course, dga's are not happy with that. However, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to better justify the reasonableness of his choice that old reserves are not respected and that there is therefore a material retroactive effect. Then we also have the reduction of our own house forfait. This was, of course, politically unspeakable for a long time, but it is now in line with previously announced plans. That's where my optimism comes from. Some things can be done eventually. Last year's approach to the Hills deduction led to a heated debate, but now it is widely accepted that the tax stimulus of one's own home is gradually decreasing. The construction around one's own house in relation to box 3 remains artificial. Here, the principles of "fair" and "simple" are very difficult to reconcile. We have already discussed the box 3 problem in the case of interruption. I think that at another time, perhaps in an oral consultation, we should deepen it sometime. Finally, I would like to ask whether the Cabinet considers that the existing system is robust enough to accommodate the energy transition measures to be implemented. So I have my own doubts about that. I continue my second part of the trend break with the implementation of ATAD, the Business Act 2019 and the Implementation Act ATAD 1. The Group of the Party of European Socialists welcomes this very important break-up of the trend, which is quite normal, and that is something that should be said in the approach to tax avoidance and tax evasion and the clear choice to seek cooperation at European level. You may find it doesn't go far enough, but it's finally on the table and it's finally being done. The Secretary of State, and with him the Cabinet, has opted for an offensive fiscal strategy to get out of the corner in which the Netherlands had been reduced. To make the comparison with football: with a purely defensive strategy, the game is usually lost by the Dutch team sooner or later. The fight against tax avoidance and tax constructions also includes a separate legislative proposal which is in line with the tax plan in the strict sense and will enter into force on 1 January. This will balance the tax treatment of debt and equity in companies. In doing so, the Secretary of State fulfils an old wish of my colleagues Koolmees and Van Weyenberg, who have argued for this in the House of Representatives for years. They also find something nice under the Christmas tree. In connection with the ATAD proposal, the cabinet deliberately and rightly in our opinion opts for an additional measure against circumvention through the Controlled Foreign Company. I am not going to go into that now, because a number of things have already been said about it. It has also been announced that a proposal not based on EU harmonisation has been made, but has itself been chosen, to tax transitory interest and royalty payments. We think that is a good thing. We would have liked to have seen that before 2021. I asked for this in the written preparation. The Secretary of State says this is not feasible. I would like to know whether it is not politically feasible or technically feasible. That is still a difference. The fraction of D66 is very content that is taken away from a policy in which tax competition has been sought in the past and where the edges, where the most beautiful flowers tend to bloom, have been approached. As a result, the Netherlands has been able to develop a money flow of around 22 billion that enters and leaves our country. We shouldn't want that. It's not just a matter of morality, it's not a good merchantship either. The Netherlands is part of the internal EU market and this brings enormous economic benefits. We have gradually come to a bit of a corner with this point. This brings more than wanting to conduct the tax red-white-blue entrepreneurship that has been so acclaimed for years. It is my group's belief that this type of tax competition is ultimately at the expense of its own political and economic position and, finally, of the prosperity of our country's citizens. How does the Secretary of State assess the position of our country in the ongoing debate at the EU tables on which he sits and in the OECD? What attitude does he now meet with his EU colleagues? Is this trend break visible? Is it far enough? Does he notice anything? I'd be interested. I also have the question as to whether the companies in our country are going to have tax transparency on the agenda. In a recent publication of the Association of Investors for Sustainable Development, there is a ranking in the Tax Transparency Benchmark 2018. There are great differences in that. You can see that Aegon and Unilever are favorable exceptions, but in general there is improvement possible. Recently, the Van Manen Committee revised the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. In this review, the tax policies of companies have come to an end. There are foreign countries, including the United Kingdom, where large companies are legally obliged to publish their tax strategy. Does the Secretary of State consider such an arrangement for the Netherlands? Does he think this is an important point? Is he considering such an arrangement? If not, why not? The D66 Group congratulates the Secretary of State for what he has achieved and I would like to hear what further ambitions he still has. Then I come to what I call trend break three, namely the other fiscal and greening measures. I am not going to repeat the discussion that has taken place in the House of Representatives, namely whether the measure between citizens and companies is correct. I have just had an interruption debate with Mr Binnema on this. You can find anything you want. We also discussed this discussion with the SDE+ and the ODE scheme. I think we've found the right size here. There's a lot to do, but I think we should. As I said in the introduction to my speech, we are going to get stuck on this once if we do not think about it fundamentally. Mr. Chairman. The trend break that did not take place in the end would have been the abolition of the dividend tax. That's a good thing. We never made it a secret in this house that we didn't think this was a good idea. Because the subject has dominated the fiscal debate for over a year, it would be strange if we did not say anything about it today. That's why I don't want to just get rid of it. However this may be looked at, it would have been a step in my group's view that would fit in with the old policy of fiscal competition. We found this a false start to the Rutte III cabinet. The basic assumption that there would be a strong causal link between this proposed measure and the likely favourable shareholders' decisions on the location of multinational headquarters in our country was highly questionable by my group. The Unilevercase is illustrative in that respect. A principle that our group would like to highlight here in future plans is the following: there should not only be a separation between church and state, but also between boardroom and state. Are there lessons to be learned from the course of future legislation? I'd like to invite the Secretary of State to that. Mr. Chairman. This was the rearview mirror. Now look forward. It is not part of the cabinet plans, but there is plenty of litigation by parties demanding tax refunds. What is the meaning of the previous Fidelity judgment and the question referred to the European Court of Justice? I know that the Secretary of State will be reluctant on these issues, because it is being debated and he does not want to put the state's procedural position at a disadvantage, but I think it is important to know whether this is something that we should take into account in the end, namely that we are forced to make adjustments by case law. We shouldn't close our eyes to this. Failure to abolish the dividend tax has been budgetaryally incorporated into lowering corporate tax rates in several steps. We expressly do not see this as a race to the bottom. I would like to invite the Secretary of State to confirm this once more. We think that this slide and this adjustment can be well defended. I was just talking about this: there are plans to impose a flight tax. This seems to our group to be a good thing in principle. Do we see these plans in another tax plan? Or does this come by separate bill in the course of the year? Couldn't it be? We are now looking forward to the coming plans. What is the status of a possible CO levy? How much chance is it and when could it come? And with which EU partners can already deduce from the question that I do not think that all 27 partners will be able to pull together? Mr. Chairman. I come to the subject of abolishing the deduction of expenditure on monuments. The Minister looks forward to this. She has published the Erfgoed tel note, with beautiful ambitions in it. It is good that this is the context of the debate on the financing of monuments. In 2016, I remember that still very lively.... was a plan to cancel the monument deduction, which was linked to a austerity notice. I'm glad it didn't go through. At the time, we were strongly opposed to this. But the desire of the Tax Administration to reduce deductions, and hence to broaden the basis and reduce complexity, has remained. It is also understandable, driven from the Tax Administration and generally also driven from the tax spokesmen. The Ministry of Education has assumed responsibility and has been integrated into the existing grant schemes. It has already been discussed here today that some of the concerns are beginning to arise. I hope that the Minister and the Secretary of State will be able to deal with these concerns together. I am referring in particular, after all that has been said, to the green monuments and to the private managers and their heritage representing a public interest. It's not just about their own position. Is the existing Sim scheme accessible and sufficient in the new situation? Is it correct that the housing scheme can also include greenery? Is there enough money in the pot in the coming years to honour the requests? And I also have a feasibility question. Is the Ministry of OCW able to accommodate the increase in this work? I hope that the rulers will be able to convince my group of this. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I would like to mention a subject which often comes to an end in these debates. That's justice. Does the Secretary of State share my group's analysis that predictability and stability of legislation and reliable justice, not only tax, are an important condition for the establishment of economic activity and therefore for the locational environment, including of headquarters? Would the Secretary of State urge his colleagues at JenV and in particular the Minister of Finance to take this aspect into account when drawing up the next JenV budget? Perhaps the Secretary of State and the Minister are sensitive to that. 'Cause now it's a lot of pushing and pulling. Mr. Chairman. We look forward with great interest to answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u37	Thank you. Mrs. Sent has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u38	I have not heard Mr Backer mention one trend break. That is the reform of the local tax area. Earlier, his group called for a shift from state taxes to municipal taxes. Does his group still have such a shift of heart? If so, how does he assess the lack of movement in this direction in the package before us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u39	Mrs. Sent has been paying attention. I didn't write this down as a trend break, because it's not in the plans. It would also be a very extensive operation if you wanted to do that with the same burden and the same income effects. I see someone sitting here in this Chamber who has looked into this further: Mr Rinnooy Kan. He could confirm that this isn't happening overnight. But when we talk about building blocks, I hope this will be taken into account in the next review.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u40	But those building blocks were just laid out by the former Minister of State. Then why didn't the cabinet pick it up in the package before us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u41	There have been several things prepared by the former Minister of State who have not all been arrested. I'm sure there's a reason for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u42	I will come back to the issue of flight tax. That's a very special thing, isn't it? I haven't figured it out yet, but Mr. Backer will certainly be able to help me. When a plane takes off at Schiphol Airport, it is quite fast outside the Dutch territory. The majority of pollution is therefore outside the Netherlands. How do you look at the justification for a tax on pollution which is largely outside the Dutch territory?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u43	The opposite happens, of course. There are already flight taxes: in Germany and France, I did not think that this tax would be levied in Belgium. The starting point is not so much where actual emissions take place. Then you would have to charge it to countries: so much in the Netherlands and so much outside. The starting point is: is there a fair pricing in the choice of mobility? The flight tax must play a role in this. Do you internalize some of the costs that you incur and which are now deposited with society? You can argue whether it's entirely fair that you pay for it when you fly to another country. In the pricing is mostly the key. But I would like to put the question to the real specialist on this subject, who has had many discussions with his European colleagues. Perhaps a mutual tax arrangement is possible on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u44	Perhaps Mr Backer, if he takes this to the Secretary of State, could take the question as to why the revenue from the flight tax goes into the general budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u45	We're both tax spokesmen. I think it is wise that revenues generally flow into the general cash. I don't think that principle is wrong. It will also be very difficult to demonstrate that this tax must be applied one-on-one. And how should it be deployed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u46	I listened carefully to Mr Backer's speech and also to Mrs Sent's speech. It was about the tax review. I thought that, in the course of his speech, there would still be a number of handles that would give some food to that, but they were left out. I think we share that a tax review or reform is crucial. There are now 'building stones' being put forward, but with all due respect 'that sounds a little vague and far away. When is the right time to carry out such a tax review or system review? Isn't the right time for such a reform right when things are going well with the country? Isn't this the time? We're reasonably resourceful. There is also a need for some money, formulated in the positive sense, to carry out such a review. Isn't this the right time? I'd like to hear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u47	I'm gonna step over the word "bad money" for a second...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u48	That's what I'd do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u49	..but my answer is yes. And this is something that we need to think along with Chamberwide, with multiple parties, including those who are now part of the opposition. It will be very fundamental. You're saying I didn't come back to it in very detail. I had in my text that I might table another motion on it, but perhaps I will not. But I'd like to mention a few things. I mentioned the shift in labour costs, which are now very high in relative terms. In that report I referred to, there is a 50% percentage against 6% or 10% for raw materials and labour. That's what happens. The differences in the tax treatment of new economic activities for contracts, employment, entrepreneurship, zzp, payrolls........................................................................................................................................................................................ That's what's wrong with me now. The Borstlap Committee is now working on it and we have also had the DBA Act. They've all been patchwork so far. There's a tax component in that discussion. I've been talking about the externalities of raw materials withdrawal that you should internalize. To be quite honest, I believe that the fiscal stimulus for debt building is still present in this system. That is why I say that we need a broad vision on such a broad subject. Then you have the point of the locational climate. I believe that we should not work with a race to the bottom in corporate taxation, but that we should move towards a common European basis and towards a simpler system of charges and surcharges. And then the question arises as to whether the Tax Administration should do so. In the end, of course, there must be a fair income ratio. That's such a few building blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u50	It's almost a whole plan, listening to Mr. Backer like that. My compliments, and that's how I know him, but it's about the moment you do. My question was whether this is not the right time to do so, because it is economic for us. It's a very simple argument, but that's where it went wrong in the past. Isn't this the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u51	I think so, but we also know the political topicality and the political context in which we must operate. But there could also be a climate law from several groups, so who knows? My answer is yes. Now comes the question of how. I don't think I have time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u52	No, I didn't. Mr. Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u53	Mr Backer mentioned the harmonisation of the tax base at European level as a means of combating a race to the bottom. Can he explain whether this will work if tariffs are not harmonised at the same time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u54	I'd like a very brief explanation when I look at the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u55	I am very surprised and pleased with Mr Köhler's question. The answer is yes, but he knows as well as I do, I believe he is in favour of it, and I do not believe that the EU has very little competence in this area. You can see that the EU is very much engaged in anti-abuse but much less on these kinds of issues. I believe that it would ultimately be very important in an economic space for all businesses and citizens to harmonise it. Mr Ester just asked me if this is the right time. On this subject, I should not be guilty of the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u56	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u57	Mr. Chairman. This is then the first really own and extensive Tax Plan of this cabinet. Although very clear choices are being made in a number of respects with regard to taxation, much is still not really clear because the major change in the climate plan is yet to come. But what is now before us is a direction and, as far as I am concerned, it has to be assessed in accordance with the same criteria that I have always used to reach a judgment. I can therefore repeat what I mentioned as starting points in the financial considerations and in the tax plans all previous years during this parliamentary term. Last year I said it like this: "My principles for a fair, effective and efficient system of taxation are briefly stated: as simple as possible, lifting according to capacity, preferably approaching capacity mainly by household and not individually, extremely high incomes, not using taxation to achieve political goals, but to correct or compensate negative external effects in the social process." That is why I shall go against the measures again. The cabinet continues to be a government, and that was not otherwise to be expected to opt for an income tax on individual income, but at least it does something against the continuing backwardness of households with a single earner. That's a profit from earlier. I have defended the choice of a moderate flat tax earlier and I am pleased to see it achieved, although I note that extremely high incomes are still taxed at a reasonably moderate rate. The ideal of "as simple as possible" has not yet been achieved. As simple as possible, including for the executive tax administration, should mean that not only the tax system but also the guarantee of a social minimum should be regulated in a single simple tax system; a system with a duty-free foot guaranteeing a minimum standard of living which is aligned with a basic income applicable to all. Such a system review still sounds very idealistic and unfeasible, but it would solve many problems. The need for all kinds of supplements and a number of social schemes would be abolished, it would make many checks unnecessary and it would also make the choice of tax by individual rather than household less drastic. It would also be a recognition of the fact that human activity, which is not paid for in our commercial society, is also socially valuable. And I agree with Mr Ester that it could be almost the time for such a reform. Back to now. The choice of the moderate flat tax, which yields less than the ib so far, leads to less taxation on income and labour, but is compensated by an increase in the low rate of VAT. In the Financial Reviews I have already indicated that I would support an objective of an average VAT rate. As far as I am concerned, the best way to do this would be to initially limit the low rate to only real necessities, as originally intended. This could be subject to a zero rate, which would be in line with the idea of basic income and would take maximum account of low incomes. Where the rate increase from 6% to 9% is feared to have a negative effect in the border region, a rate of 0% in addition to a rate of 16%, for example, could have a positive impact on the ratio. Another advantage: water would fall under the zero rate, but soft drinks as not the first need for life under the 16% rate. This would have an extremely valuable side effect on public health. Maybe the Secretary of State would like to reconsider that. 9% has now been chosen for a wide range of goods and services. That is a step towards one rate, but not really ideal, not for the border region and not for low incomes either. I'll get back to you on that. It seems to me that it would be difficult to impose additional taxes on meat via VAT rates from a climate point of view, but it is possible to achieve this well through the slaughter tax which has apparently been discussed in the House of Representatives. This would provide an opportunity to offset the external costs of livestock farming, but this should be included in the overall agricultural policy in relation to externalities, which is not yet in place or hardly in place. The Secretary of State may be able to comment on that as well. Mr. Chairman. I believe that the tax measure is justified in terms of reducing base items and speeding up the rate measure for mortgage interest on own housing, and this is also true of the measures relating to the 30% scheme and the correction of the box 2 rate. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the fiscal greening measures. They are limited to relatively small interventions, so there is no doubt that there will be much to follow in the future. However, there are measures already in place, such as those that are going to make energy use more expensive, which are going to affect consumers, as well as the increase in the low VAT rate. Compensation must be made from reduced Ib levy and from adjustment of benefits and supplements to inflation. It is precisely in this type of measure that we need to take into account the feelings of unrest that are very explicit in France, but also in our own country. The feeling that high incomes are spared, that companies pay almost no tax, that banks still think making money is more important than honesty, and that those who can do the least must bleed the most to provide the State with money and save the planet. These feelings do not make the measures to be taken meaningless, on the contrary, but they also require measures to be taken which may point the other way. The recovery measures Panama Papers and ATAD 1 legislation are of those measures which point the other way. With regard to the impact on housing corporations, I agree with Mr Köhler. These measures are highly necessary in order to achieve what the Secretary of State had previously set itself as a goal, namely to deliver the Netherlands as quickly as possible from the image of tax haven. The fact that the government also places a great deal of emphasis on the aspect of a more equal treatment of equity and debt seems to me to be useful. Overuse of debt leads to irresponsible speculation with companies. But with our bad image, we won't be there yet. If Shell does not pay taxes in the Netherlands and uses IKEA Nederland to channel profits and if they remain within the legal possibilities, then those legal possibilities are apparently too broad. The question is whether the new rules will put an end to this. Perhaps the Secretary of State will also be able to comment on this in connection with the specific questions put by Mr Binnema. In any case, the measure which stops the profit of not continuing to abolish the dividend tax in an additional reduction in corporation tax is another signal in the wrong direction. It does not seem to me that our locational climate needs an extra boost, quite the contrary. No one is likely to be opposed to additional incentives for SMEs, which the IMF noted last week that it is threatening to stagnate, but it seems that it is difficult to sell additional benefits to large companies. There I see serious objections: business, if not necessary, but also social, as undesirable. We are also giving away space that will soon prove very necessary if the climate measures or, for example, the Brexit are going to cost real money. Mr. Chairman. Finally. The Tax Measures Act national monuments and the future flight tax. The choice to make maintenance costs of house monuments no longer tax deductible, but eligible, seems to me justified. It means a simplification of taxation that is important and it means that maintenance, at least of the monumental aspects of housing monuments, is reimbursed for a greater proportion than through the tax deduction. Following questions asked earlier, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State about the implementation costs for the private owners. The fact that the Sim grant goes from 50% to 60% in the same context is very important for the monument foundations and other organisations, which often have a great deal of difficulty in getting the necessary own resources together. It's gonna be a little easier now. As far as flight tax is concerned, it is a small start which is disproportionate to the actual cost of flying. And now that there is such a tax in many countries in Western Europe, the Netherlands can afford a new experiment, but it is also important to try and find a coordinated European approach. This can be done through a joint flight tax, but also in other ways, for example by finally taxing kerosene. In any case, the aim must be to strike a balance between the burden to be imposed and the cost of flying. And "costs" above all means the effect of CO emissions. If we are to be able to promote it responsibly, then the aviation sector must be involved. By the way, even with this CO pricing, as long as Europe is not yet there, the Netherlands can of course choose to take the lead instead of waiting. But ultimately, pricing external costs and taxation generally gains effectiveness and fairness through European cooperation, by creating a European level playing field. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to await the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u58	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u59	Madam President. Today we are discussing no less than nine fiscal legislative proposals. Without the Rutte III cabinet using grotesque words, we can speak of a major change in our tax system for both direct and indirect taxes. The CDA Group agrees that the tax system is moving towards two rates. The line as agreed in the government agreement, a broadening of the bases for income and profit, lowering the rates and discouraging over-loaning for own home or business, supports the CDA Group. This also includes a reasonable increase in the reduced rate of VAT, as well as a moderate greening of the tax system, in order to make citizens more aware of consumption and energy. These changes lead to a fairer and better burden-sharing. Labour pays again, enterprise is stimulated and polluting consumption is priced. The further reduction of fiscal instrumentalism from the point of view of simplification and better implementation are good secondary objectives. Now we must not lose sight of the latter and we must always bear in mind the legal position of the citizen as a taxable person. Finally, I would also like to draw particular attention to the enormous influence of the OECD, the G20, and the EU, the latter, both legislative and judicial, on our national tax law. I will concentrate my contribution to the plenary debate on three key issues: taxes are paid as long as citizens understand why; the tax system is never finished; The Netherlands should be internationally proud of the fiscal policy to be pursued. Madam President. Research shows that tax morals in the Netherlands are good. However, that is not self-evident. It is at the heart of the relationship between government and citizens. The citizen has entrusted the monopoly to levy taxes on the government, read: to politicians. That's a mandate. That mandate must be handled prudently. Taxation is not an end in itself. Taxation is the means to finance expenditure and to share prosperity fairly and fairly. If parts of the population are systematically overburdened, then a rebellion, if not a revolution, is conceivable. History shows that time and time again. Recently in France, with the rebellion against the increase in excise duties on diesel. In short, it is a very fragile balance. The economy is changing rapidly, including through digitisation and robotisation. Our tax system has not been adapted to this. The basis for levying corporation tax, for example, is still based on an economy that is earth- and nail-proof, i.e. factories and chimneys, and not virtual. The concept of "platform" was not known to the legislator in the middle of the 20th century when the tax on profits was introduced. A part of the discontent is him here. Citizens in the Netherlands have seen the net available real income increase by only 2% on average over the period 2002-2017, while the economy grew by 15% that period. We have asked the government in writing whether the figures in the Macro Economic Exploration, on page 35, do not require a deeper analysis. Only the observation that taxes, contributions, have risen and that the backwardness of gross wage growth and, to a lesser extent, the increase in health care contributions are the cause of this very moderate growth in disposable income, disappointed us. That is why we ask the Secretary of State once again whether he would like to reflect on this more fundamentally in this debate. How is it that, over such a longer period, the development of net disposable income per capita has fallen sharply behind? Can he look forward to what several speakers have already said in this debate, for example that the energy transition will be accompanied by a burden-raising element? In other words, that is also my question to the Secretary of State if we see an increase of only 2% in net disposable income over the next 15 years because much of the money goes to the expense, then we can imagine the continuing discontent of the citizens, especially when we see that the profits of techno giants have increased with the multiple over the same period and that the average tax burden on these types of companies is far below our current rate of 25%. It's very hard to explain. That's not really explainable. The Netherlands cannot tackle this imbalance unilaterally. That is why the CDA Group supports the cabinet's line to settle the issue of digital tax for the longer term globally, i.e. multilaterally. At the same time, the EU is also active in this area. See the two draft directives presented by the European Commission on 21 March: one for the long term and one for the short term, the so-called digital service tax. However, last week, at the Ecofin meeting, it was decided to transfer the issue to the Romanian Presidency in the first half of 2019. There is an agreement between Germany and France on the subject, as we have heard. Is the Secretary of State content with this development? How'd he figure it out? Does he think that there will be a political agreement on the digital service tax in the first half of 2019? This will then be a tax on turnover and not on profits. That's gonna be a temporary load, with a horizon. In fact, that is a pity, because when it comes to the problem of the digital economy, it is precisely the allocation of profits. In this sense, we understand the idea in Brussels that the CCCTB proposals should include a new definition of the concept of permanent establishment. Only, how does this relate to developments in the OECD context? Would you mind giving us a heads-up on that? Because you're sitting at those tables in Brussels. You were there last week. Madam President. Our group chairman, Elco Brinkman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u60	He's sick.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u61	He's sick; you're right. We wish him well. He has already indicated in the General Political Reviews that we live in a prosperous country, a country that is never finished, a country in which institutions are important. From this Chamber, the CDA Group wishes to make it clear that a well-functioning Tax Service is crucial for tax morality. In this sense, our group does not participate in the much practiced company game of bashing the Tax Administration. As a general rule, the Tax Administration operates well, otherwise we will not raise EUR 305 billion in taxes and premiums per year, which are necessary for the financing of public expenditure and public insurance. Are there no problems at all? Of course I do. The Tax Administration has a number of serious problems, particularly in the field of ICT. This requires a lot of effort and a lot of capacity, not only administratively but also politically. The CDA is therefore looking forward to the consultation with the State Secretary on the functioning of the Tax Administration on 29 January. Perhaps, in anticipation, the Secretary of State can indicate all his top three priorities for the Tax Administration. We do not think it is in the trias politics if Parliament wants to sit on the Tax Office's seat every day. Of course, Parliament must control, but some restraint, certainly from the Upper Chamber, is in place there. The first responsibility lies with the Secretary of State for Finance, and we trust him to solve the problems at the Tax Office. We are aware that this will not have happened overnight. The CDA Group is convinced that the cabinet is not only on the right track when implementing the tax paragraphs of the government agreement, but also on the right pace. One could say that with this package of nine legislative proposals, the cabinet for this period at least seems to have been ruled out for at least 75%. However, the legislator in Brussels is not sitting still. The Planning Overview of measures addressing tax avoidance and evasion shows that at least ten legislative proposals for 2019 and 2020 are still in the pipeline, mainly initiated by the European Commission. Madam President. Unfortunately, with regard to the present package, the CDA Group does not escape a critical note on the state monuments bill. This concerns the planned conversion of the tax deduction for private owners of state monuments into a subsidy scheme. I'm sorry, Minister, that critical note is just happening in your wallet. But we fulfil our role here. We have examined this measure in the light of the typical criteria on which the First Chamber assesses legislation. The first question we are asking is what the real problem is, and then whether the solution put forward is the right one. We then consider the criteria of legality, where legal certainty is particularly important. Finally, this legislative proposal, as with any legislative proposal, is also concerned with implementation and enforcement. Let me be very clear: this bill does not only have a winding course in parliamentary history. After all, it was already submitted in 2016, with a different purpose. It's a good thing we're talking about this in the First Chamber. We have asked several written questions in two rounds. We are not asking these questions, as you know, to ask for the familiar path. We do this because we want to take our work here seriously as co-legislator. We are, of course, giving the Minister and the Secretary of State the opportunity to explain again in this debate why a subsidy scheme for private owners of state monuments is better than the current tax deduction, and not just from the argument of the government. You may say it again, but that argument has landed. We are mainly concerned with seeing it from the point of view of the citizen, the owner of the national monument. Is it gonna make him better? And what about legal certainty? Mr Bruijn has already asked for this in a different way in his speech on behalf of the VVD Group. I would like to agree with the questions of legal certainty and very specifically with regard to the grant application and the grant award versus the current situation of a tax deduction if you adhere to the rules. But, of course, this also applies to the granting of subsidies. We also have some other questions. We do not participate with people who give the impression that the owners of national monuments are part of the wealthy Netherlands. Undoubtedly, there will be very wealthy people who also have a national monument. But there are also very normal Dutch people who have a national monument, who want to maintain it conscientiously, who do not have hundreds of thousands of euros or millions of euros in the bank and who commissioned maintenance in 2018, assuming that they would have a tax deduction. If part of that work is not carried out in 2018 but in 2019, then for them on 1 January the curtain would fall at once. They would then no longer be eligible for the tax deduction but would be eligible for the grant. That creates a lot of uncertainty. Among other things, we received a letter about this from a family living in South Limburg in a farmhouse dating back to 1633. It also pointed out how important it is that the tax deduction scheme as we know it today, combined with the loan facility at the National Restoration Fund, should be possible. You won't be able to do that anymore. Not everyone can afford that. Not everyone can go to the bank and get a loan for that. Some people can, but others can't. It creates uncertainty. It has to do with good transitional rights. I would very much like the Minister and the Secretary of State to take this up again. We are well aware that if you receive a subsidy of 38% of the eligible costs and you have borrowed 100%, you will immediately use 38% of the subsidy to repay the debt. Then you have a healthier financing relationship. Madam President. In short, the CDA Group really wants clarity on four points. One. greater legal certainty for owners with regard to the grant application and grant, so that there is a level playing field as it currently stands. Two. Better transitional rights; I have just given an example of this. Three. The maintenance of the combination grant and loan from the National Restoration Fund. Four. I have already made this point in the case of interruption when Mr Bruijn spoke: respect for the fiscal transparency of the estate, in particular, for example, or in the case of secluded private assets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u62	I have a question for clarification to Mr Van Rij. I have indeed raised the issue of legal certainty in my contribution, but I did not ask for the same degree of legal certainty as we do now. I would like to put a question to Mr Van Rij. It is also the case in the current scheme that you only have certainty when you know whether the Tax Administration accepts the deduction you specify? That is also more than a year after you had to make the investment, regardless of the loan option. In my contribution on behalf of my group, I have considered it desirable that there should be more legal certainty and that you should be able to apply for a grant in advance, but I did not put that into the sense that legal certainty would now be different from that in the new scheme if the grant could only be applied for afterwards. So it would be profit, but it wouldn't affect the law if it couldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u63	Thank you for this question. Formally-legally, in the current situation, you will have certainty only when your attack has been imposed. Anyway, I'd also like to hear what the Secretary of State will say about that later. This is always the case; that is the case for every deduction. That's the same thing with the mortgage interest deduction. However, over the past decades, a practice has developed in which excellent valuationrs from the Tax Administration have gone in advance in consultation with the owners of state monuments, when the office was still well-equipped and really excellent people worked there. Such a maintenance plan was then submitted to the relevant officials. Then they went through that minutely. If there was a heater or anything, it was cut out. Then the taxpayer knew exactly: if I stick to this now, there is a likelihood, beyond certainty, that the deduction will be accepted as it is and my declaration will be so. So material security in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u64	Something's for sure or it's not for sure, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u65	That's silly, because that's how it worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u66	Once again, so if we could agree with the government in the new regulation that there would also be the possibility of obtaining a prior ruling in principle, for example directly from the RCE, we would already have made a lot of profit. We could get into that together, see if we can arrange that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u67	I think we have increased the tension so much that we will first listen to what the rulers have to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u68	It is good to see the passion of Mr Van Rij when it comes to national monuments. I wonder if he could stretch that passion a little more. He has four very critical points. I hope that this will not lead to this regulation being postponed, because we have already discussed it a little bit later: the Sim scheme. This is particularly important for our churches, for parishes and for our synagogues, who get some relief because their own contribution goes down by 10%. We have received a letter on this subject. I know that churches are also very important to the CDA, the religious heritage. Can I hear him talk about that point, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u69	Of course, Mr. Chairman. We received that letter, too. But let me be very clear about that. What I did not like in that letter was the unjustified link being made, as if the CDA Group were calling for a postponement, let alone an amendment to the draft law. I'm in common agreement with the government on this. I've been asking some questions. I'm doing my job here as a member of the First Chamber. That's one. Two. A further improper link that has been made is the following. We are talking here about tax deduction for private owners of state monuments. We are not talking about churches, parishes or other institutions with this bill at all. On that pot, that money, the Minister said, and I think she explained it very well in her bill: I'm going to reserve 200 million over four years, 50 million a year for those private owners of state monuments. Strictly speaking, with the changes that we now have in the Tax Plan, they even improve, because they get 38% eligible costs. Soon there will be only a deduction against the first disc possible. Then it's 33% and it's down to 29%. Now at the point of the churches. They're gonna get out of the Sim pot, which goes from 50% to 60%, that's what I understand. Fine, of course we are for that. That's what we're for. That is the answer to your question. However, I have deliberately asked: it must not be the case that some of the current private owners of state monuments, those who are now entitled to deduct as a whole, will not be entitled to this subsidy? Those are the fiscal transparency bodies, because they will have to compete with the churches and with the others from the other pot. I think that's a question. I await the answer and I agree with the Christian Union: we are always for the churches.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u70	Very well, it's good to underline that. It is also good to hear the passion of Mr Van Rij's CDA on this point. We'd love to hold you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u71	All right, Madam President, I will continue my speech. I see I'm still...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u72	You have nine minutes and 13 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u73	We're gonna finish that neatly within that time. I promise you. With interest, the CDA Group has taken note of further communications from the Secretary of State for Finance on the simplification of the tax system. He is right when he says that the reports of the Van Weeghel and Van Dijkhuijzen Committee should be refreshed. With regard to the tax treatment of his own home, he made a commitment to the First Chamber last year to come up with a note in 2019. As a CDA group, we would have argued in favour of this and we are pleased that the Secretary of State is taking it swiftly. Within the current tax system, there are a number of issues that continue to call for attention. Mr Backer also pointed out, more comprehensively than I am now going to do, in his speech as far as I am concerned, which is certainly excellent for that part. I refer to the use of income-dependent schemes, including effectiveness and the problem of cashing out. The next major issue is, of course, the taxation of raw materials and all that has to do with the energy transition. We, as the CDA Group, would like to draw your attention to the report of the Court of Auditors two years ago. It's been a little under-exposed. That report is called View of tax-relieving regulations. It provides an excellent overview of all tax concessions and tax instruments. Then you see that all tax concessions and all tax instruments involve a total of EUR 100 billion, at least on the basis of the figures of the 2017 Millions Note. So that is not a broad-based approach, which we were talking about earlier, but a narrow-based approach. 100 billion: we raise a total of 300 billion in taxes and premiums per year. Of 60 tax concessions and 22 tax instruments, there were no figures! Estimates of 18 tax concessions and 11 tax schemes have been made by the General Court. In other words, we have, undoubtedly with good political intentions, incorporated many facilities and instruments into the law over the years, but if the Secretary of State were to do so, it would be very good if he would take that report from the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u74	I'm just trying to tell you how to clean it up a little bit. You mention the number of schemes. My own intervention at this point was how much is actually going to change: the changing economy, how to do it digitally, and so on. Isn't "refreshing" really a diminutive word for "structurally revised"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u75	Yes, but you know that the irony is often the power. That must appeal to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u76	That appeals to me very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u77	My question to the Secretary of State is this: what is the commission's mission, how is the committee to be set up and when is the committee to deliver? The cabinet takes many measures to prevent tax avoidance and evasion and the Netherlands also wants to keep the Netherlands attractive to the real business community. That line was clearly set out by the Secretary of State on 23 February last. The CDA Group supports this direction, the so-called 'en' policy. The Secretary of State has taken on board the CDA Group's suggestion to make a so-called zero measurement based on external sources. The policy of combating tax avoidance and evasion through the Netherlands must not only be combated by legislative measures, but must also be reviewed periodically on the basis of results. The debate has been dominated for too long by images, while more objectivity on the basis of figures will bring more balance to the assessment of whether the policy is successful or needs to be adjusted. In this sense, the CDA Group is extremely contented with the great speed with which the Secretary of State informed the First Chamber on 6 November of the international tax treaty policy. With the help of SEO Economic Research and with reference to the OECD, he commissioned a zero measurement. He has also indicated that this is not easy. He has shown that the OECD is working on a new database, the corporate tax statistics dataset, based on the individual country-by-country country reports with information on the profits made by a particular company in a given country in relation to the tax paid by that company in that country. The OECD expects to measure the results by 2020. A second important observation is that there are about 15,000 special financial institutions in the Netherlands. The tax-relevant financial flow consists of dividends, interest and royalties. There's 196 billion coming in and 199 billion coming out. Around 22 billion goes to low-taxed countries which are in the definition of then countries with a rate of 7% or less and perhaps now 9% or less, given that the amendment in the House of Representatives is made up of royalties and about 19 billion. We can very well imagine saying: we do not want this power anymore. Because then the Netherlands is used, then our good treaties network is used, for money that comes from somewhere and ends up in a tax haven. The unilateral introduction of a conditional withholding tax on dividends, interest and royalties should put an end to this, as the Secretary of State rightly points out. Then it would be very unfortunate that if this were to happen in the Netherlands, the same current with equal ease I am not going to mention names going through other EU Member States. Well, then we haven't really achieved that much. At least, from the EU perspective. That is why we have the question of how far the draft directive on withholding tax on interest and royalties in the EU is now going. Would the Secretary of State perhaps consider advocating the good Dutch initiative of zero measurement in Brussels as well? Why should we call it a large country and not start immediately with Malta and Luxembourg? Germany cannot do such a zero measurement? We do not want to show that we are the best boy in the classroom, but we do want to see an objectification and a quantification of that debate. We're very curious if he feels like it or not. The CDA Group is concerned about this huge legislation from the EU and the exchange of information, which the Netherlands is quite rightly cooperating constructively and proactively, about whether the tax authorities in all EU Member States, to start with, can handle it. You may have legislation and you may have a reporting obligation, but if you don't have the officials and you don't have the systems to process it then you'll have five years or in a few years' time just as big problems as we had before. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. During the cabinet formation, ambitious agreements were made on the fiscal agenda, as reflected in the government agreement. The CDA Group is content with the great speed with which the government delivers here. We therefore look forward with interest to the answers to the questions we have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u78	Thank you, Mr. Van Rij. Please come back, because Mrs Sent has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u79	I would like to ask Mr Van Rij what his view is on the impact of European measures on the tax burden on housing corporations. We talked about this earlier when I was behind the chair. At that time, Mr Van Rij suggested that, should undesirable effects occur, the landlord levy would be an option. Would he be able to confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u80	I think it was something else, so that's why I'm very happy with this question. In my view, I asked you whether it would be possible to do so, to advocate such an exception in Brussels to the deduction of interest for housing corporations only and whether this would not lead to a major conflict with European law. That's what the first question is. So I'm a little scared, too, having read what the Secretary of State has already written about it. That plea is not gonna make it in Brussels. Then I asked for clarification on your part, what you mean by the other mitigating measures and whether, for example, you are thinking about the landlord levy, knowing that the cabinet is already doing something there. Then you said quite clearly: yes, I am thinking of that and I am thinking in particular of the combination of sustainability. So you gave me a very clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u81	Yes. I would therefore like a clear answer from Mr Van Rij to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u82	I would very much like to await the government's answers to this point. It is true that my predecessor here in this Chamber, and hopefully my successor again, was mordicus against the introduction of the landlord's tax. Well, that seems like a very nice answer at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u83	Thank you, Mr. Van Rij. I give the floor to Mrs Van Leeuwen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u84	Mr. Chairman. Today's election promises are tomorrow's taxes, Martin Luther King once said. Today we are discussing such taxes, not just on the basis of election promises. We know that the proposed abolition of the dividend tax was not based on any electoral promise, but on a government agreement consisting of giving and taking. Many voters have the impression that the emphasis is mainly on inclusion and no longer accept it as a given. Anyone who sees the rise of the yellow shirt may recognize a very different "and march" than Emmanuel Macron was in mind when he crowned himself king of the French Republic. There is a wide live discontent, reminiscent of L'Ancien Régime et la Révolution that Alexis de Tocqueville wrote in 1856 about the causes of the French revolution. The Ancient regime cannot last for very long when the shore will turn the ship as a result of climate change that goes beyond all limits. The budget is heading for global warming of 3°C and although we have seen it coming for years and have been able to predict the catastrophic consequences, the cabinet is not able to adjust it in such a way that it will not have been up to us in any case. Radical measures are needed to curb climate change and prevent citizens from rebellion. Politicians like Sybrand Buma of the CDA have the impression that people are revolting because of felt climate injustice, but the unease is much deeper. People do not feel sufficiently protected from an uncertain future that casts its shadows ahead. It is wrongly believed that an adequate climate policy would be priceless and should be paid by ordinary people and women. The opposite could be the case. I come today in my contribution not with unfeasible and priceless proposals, but with a Plan B that can reduce climate damage. Citizens are looking for measures to ensure a better life for future generations, not for patchwork and incomprehensible measures. Mr. Chairman. Meat, fish and dairy are hard to imagine from the menu for many Dutch people. Something will have to happen. Precisely in the case of an unabated consumption of animal proteins, it is impossible to achieve the Paris climate targets by 2030. If we continue the current diet, we will need three globes to feed the population of only one globe, and you do not need to have learned to understand that that option is not real. Mr Prast, party member of the Secretary of State, has proposed, from her background, that the social norm be changed as a behavioral economist. Where meat now constitutes the social standard in many meals, including those provided by the government, the social standard could be reversed by a simple intervention. Where it should now be reported that guests want a vegetable meal, by way of derogation from the social standard, the standard provision of vegetable dinners could also achieve enormous climate benefits at the State Secretary's ministry, without compromising the freedom of choice. Anyone who wants meat or fish as a supplement to the vegetable meal just need to send a message in the context of: Carnivore? Pass it on! The basic meal will be animal-, nature- and climate-friendly, suitable for everyone and nobody needs to miss anything. One phone call is enough to get meat, fish or dairy added. Minister van Engelshoven, also present here today and also party member of the State Secretary, has already promised to introduce this reversal of the social standard into the Ministry of Education. Minister Kaag is considering doing the same. The college of mayor and aldermen in Utrecht has decided to do the same, the Erasmus School of Economics, the University of Groningen and Utrecht University participate. My simple question to the Secretary of State is whether he is willing to attend his ministry the "Carnivore? Pass it on!" to investigate seriously as an opportunity and as an example. I'd like a response! A more sustainable society, and thus a better climate, needs energy-saving measures such as boosting solar panels, electric cars and more often taking the bike. The promotion of electric cars does not relate to the youngtimer scheme, whereby business drivers for a car of 15 years or older pay only 35% of the daily value of the car to tax addition. So you can ride cheaply in a thick polluting old diesel, which has a very low daily value. We also have a scheme for electric youngtimers of 15 years or older in the Netherlands, for which you only have to add 17% of the daily value. Only, there are no decent electric cars of 15 years or older, so this arrangement is completely unworkable. In practice, after five years of leasing an electric car, business drivers get rid of the car, after which those cars are exported in many cases because it is not attractive to keep driving that business at 22% of the new value. Is the Secretary of State prepared to examine the age at which 100% electric cars qualify for the youngtimer scheme to five years, so that entrepreneurs are encouraged to continue driving cars instead of exporting them to countries such as Germany and Hungary, where buyers receive government subsidies when buying a second-hand electric car? The cabinet wants to encourage the purchase of electric cars with a subsidy of €6,000 in 2021, but that's after this cabinet period and we don't have that much time to solve the climate problem. Therefore my simple but effective solution for the electric youngtimer who, unlike Emile Ratelband, should be able to lower his age with a simple stroke of pens if the Secretary of State so wishes. I'd like a response. I'm considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the much discussed energy transition, which is getting under way, more action is needed to achieve the Paris climate objectives. The protein transition can and should no longer be missing from the agenda. The Health Council, the Scientific Council for Government Policy, the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, the Planning Bureau for the Environment and the Council for the Environment and Infrastructure have also shown this noise more and more urgently over the past few years. The most recent advice, namely the April 2018 opinion entitled Sustainable and Healthy, of the Rli, is very clear. I quote: "In the long term, climate change inevitably leads to less production space for livestock farming and to a change in our menu." And about the change in our menu, the Rli makes an important recommendation: "Make sure that the proportion of animal proteins in the diet decreased to 40% of total protein consumption in 2030. A sustainable and healthy diet means that more vegetable and less animal proteins are eaten." The production and processing of our food requires natural resources. Agricultural land, water and minerals, but also carbon, phosphate and nitrogen are important raw materials for the proteins that consumers take. But the natural resources on our small, crowded planet are running out of time. The biggest losses are incurred in converting vegetable proteins to animal proteins. It takes seven kilos of plant protein to grow a cow one kilo. This is at least as inefficient as the now banned light bulb. In addition, 24% of global greenhouse gas emissions are due to food production. This is stated in the Food systems and natural resources report of the Planning Bureau for the Environment. The more efficient and sustainable use of natural resources could reduce this percentage as well as improve biodiversity, soil degradation and dehydration, the PBL states. However, the depletion of resources will continue steadily if we continue to consume animal proteins to the same extent as in recent decades. Mr. Chairman. There are countless possibilities to change that, I mentioned one at the beginning of my speech. The Netherlands is currently the country with most agricultural animals per hectare. But we can change that. We can show that it can be different instead of continuing with business as usual. By eating less animal products, you contribute to a fairer world food distribution and you can cure hunger somewhere else in the world. The land now used for the cultivation of animal feed can be used for the cultivation of crops that can be consumed directly by humans. We can become the frontrunner in the protein transition as the Netherlands. How beautiful would that be? An unhealthy diet is the cause of many diseases. A large proportion of diabetic patients can be helped off the medication by reduced consumption of animal and increased consumption of plant proteins. Betting on healthier life and making fruit and vegetables more expensive at the same time, however, does not rhyme. That is a totally wrong signal to society. Dutch people have been eating less fruit and vegetables for years than is recommended. Research carried out by Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Community, shows that the Dutch eat even the least fruit and vegetables in Europe. About 30% of Dutch people eat one to four servings of fruit and vegetables every day. The European average is about 50%. And the consumption of meat and dairy products is in the Netherlands, you already guessed it, the highest in Europe. Let us help consumers understand the value of a more plant-based menu. For their health, their children's and the planet's. The government should set an example in this respect. The cabinet recognises in the prevention agreement that people are sick of the wrong food. It provides increasing health care, but fruit and vegetables, the symbols when it comes to healthy food, are made more expensive. Unbelievable. VAT on fruit and vegetables should be abolished. Therefore, the request to the government to reverse this measure and to compensate for the revenue lost by the government through the introduction of a slaughter tax. Mr. Chairman. My party colleague Lammert van Raan made that suggestion in the Lower House. And perhaps it is right to recall what the Secretary of State said recently. "I would like to give the following to Mr Van Raan. We had a discussion earlier on about the meat tax, as we called it back then. At the time we wanted to tax the meat as such, and that is incredibly difficult in its implementation. We also had technical discussions on this once. I really appreciate the fact that at least we're looking for another way now. It is said: okay, we know that meat really pollutes, that it is one of the most polluting ingredients of our diet, can't you do it in another way? A slaughter tax is indeed another way of looking at the beginning of the chain. I think it's a little early to give all the answers. If that question comes again and we know a little more about it, we will eventually need to know more about the technical part. It's not like I'm embracing it full now, but this is a lot more passable in terms of exploration than the earlier ideas we've heard about it." Mr. Chairman. Now, at the invitation of the Secretary of State, I ask the question again. We don't have time to waste. I would like to hear the latest state of play on this urgent issue! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u85	Thank you, Mrs Van Leeuwen. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-10.u86	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments, pending the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
