ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance. Mrs Marijnissen has asked for a point of order to be made before we begin. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. We got a hold of him 15 minutes ago, and we got the letter we asked for this afternoon. I would like to object to that. The spirit of the letter is that a kind of compromise is actually found by informing part of the Chamber confidentially and thus responding to the Court's desire for openness. Of course, that cannot be the intention. When we ask for openness, we ask for openness. This means that we can discuss matters here in public, in a debate in the House of Representatives. We can't do that now. In that light, I also actually have a second question for the Prime Minister. This afternoon we received a note from him in which he returned to a statement made last week in the debate. In view of this, I wondered whether the Prime Minister still supports the answers given by his Secretary of State, Mr Snel, to the questions raised by the SP Group. These are the questions that were asked on 15 June and 18 May. They specifically said: "Is it true that a determination agreement can be agreed for a fixed or indefinite period?" And, "Are rulings concluded for an indefinite period?" Secretary of State Snel has given an answer to that, and I wonder if the Prime Minister is still in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u3	You've made your point. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u4	I would like to support Mrs Marijnissen's point about that letter, because it is really a very strange letter. The request was to make public a weighting between the taxpayer's interest and the importance of having a public debate here on a major issue, in which everyone knows in every respect what it is about: the treatment of Shell by the cabinet. Then you do not come by saying: you have been informed confidentially. If that were an answer to such a question, you would not need that third member at all to consider the importance you weigh. There's a precedent. Mr Snel's predecessor said earlier in a similar case: yes, if the taxpayer himself talks about it, as Shell has done here, I can also have the debate with Parliament. And that's really necessary. There really needs to be a new letter, because this is an insult to Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u5	This is not only an insult to Parliament, these are just lies, lies that the Prime Minister told here last Thursday. In the letter he says that he had no knowledge of it, but he clearly had knowledge of it. We got some kind of lame apology for that today. Now there has been no response to what I asked for today in the scheme. Shell Nederland's president-director said "that was a deal; everyone knows there was a billion-dollar deal." I said: at the moment that Shell's president makes that public, there is no law that stands in the way of the cabinet doing the same. I'd like a reaction to that. And it's all public.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u6	In addition to this, otherwise this will be a very strange debate in the sense that we will always receive a reply from the cabinet: we cannot answer that, in the light of the law. And that's really weird. Mr Asscher already referred to it. In 2015, it was about Starbucks. At that time, it could be indicated that it was about Starbucks and information was not shared with the Chamber, public. Why did you do that? This was achieved thanks to the intervention of the European Commission. She was going to investigate this. Then this audience became and it was thought: now we must also inform the House of Representatives. I would like to say to this Prime Minister that it would be a shame if the European Commission were to look at this very soon and only then would the Chamber have public access to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u7	I'll see if the Prime Minister or the Secretary of State needs a brief response. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u8	Mr. Chairman. The letter's there. We're behind that. It's all explained. It's really the law, done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u9	Then I actually want...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u10	Mr. Chairman. I say that it is an arrogant letter and that Parliament is asking for transparency to be weighed against the taxpayer's interest. The letter does not go into that. It looks only consciously at the information position of Parliament and does not weigh up the independent argument of the importance of public access, while this issue is causing great turmoil to society. Then you shouldn't say: that letter is there, it's all explained. I really think that's an inappropriate reaction. The cabinet seems to be ignoring the gravity of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u11	This is a real insult from the Prime Minister to the Chamber. There has been a publication in Trouw and the president of Shell Nederland has said "yes, that was about my company Shell. That was a good deal." Surely it cannot be that we in the Lower House get more information from the President of Shell than from the Prime Minister, who is bound by the obligation to inform under the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u12	Last week's Question Time was not a success issue for this Prime Minister, I would say. And I think he's still in the mood for a follow-up, because once again he's trying to keep things away from us that aren't. If he says "this is the law and we have to implement it, because we cannot violate it," I actually have a very simple question. Then in 2015 the Secretary of State broke the law, because at that time information about Starbucks was indeed brought out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u13	Then I'll look at the Prime Minister or the Secretary of State. Then I'll give you the floor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u14	Mr. Chairman. A letter has been requested this afternoon and we have prepared it for tonight. First of all, I would like to say that it is anything but an insult to the Chamber. If it's experienced like that, then I'm very sorry. We have tried, in the short time we have had for this answer, to do justice to this really complex issue, which has been the subject of numerous statements by the Supreme Court not only now but also in the past. Earlier in debates, we indicated that there are two important articles. These are Article 68 of the Constitution, which you all know better than I do, and Article 67 AWR. Those two articles both have an interest. The importance of 67: if a taxable person gives his information to the inspector in confidence, the inspector must, as with many other professions, ensure that the confidentiality of those documents remains guaranteed. He must do so because otherwise he is in danger that the taxpayer will no longer give the information the inspector needs to commit an attack. That Article 67 is really an article that I and we all have to make very heavy. No one's tax return needs to be discussed here in the Chamber on its own. On the other hand, the Chamber rightly says: "But we also have the right to information. We would very much like to have information about a case." That's Article 68. Those two things then come together, on the one hand, the right of Parliament, and you must have the information to do something with it, and on the other hand, the right of the taxpayer who should not be forced to see his tax liability and declaration made public. So what is the balance in that? That is the choice under Article 67, paragraph 2, because that offers an opportunity. If there is a legal possibility to do something about it, for example Article 68 Constitution, you can choose to treat part of it differently. I have done so by offering a technical briefing so that at least the Chamber is given the information on this individual matter in confidence. That is what we offered together in the previous debate, after we had weighed up the state of policy and legislation. On the other hand, there is the protection of the taxpayer. We tried, and that's incredibly complicated. Apparently, in this short time, we would have been unable to explain that clearly enough a few hours before. But that was really the intention of this letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u15	I'll see you guys back on your feet. There is therefore a difference of opinion on what should or should not be shared confidentially with the Chamber. We can discuss this point of order again. That is possible, but then it will also be a repetition of moves. In the end, it is up to the Chamber to decide whether or not to rule on what should or should not be shared with the Chamber. I would like to say that for a moment, because I also want us to continue the debate. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u16	Mr President, clearly. It is precisely because it is up to the Chamber to give a ruling on this matter that I would like to make it here on behalf of my group. We demand openness. This is not just an individual case. This is about a dossier that has been going on throughout the Netherlands for months. The cover-up is getting bigger and bigger. I've been to the confidential briefing. I wrestled with that. I said I was there under protest, but I have been there. On this basis, too, I believe that this information should be made public. That has to be shared here. I also put a specific question to the Prime Minister, namely whether he still supports his Secretary of State's replies on the existence or non-existence of determination agreements or rulings for an indefinite period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u17	It is a bit of an indirect question to me, because it was about the debate I had with Mrs Leijten on the rule-making practice. In that we talked about rulings agreed within the APA/ATR. We have said that they have a fixed term, between four and five years. Sometimes they're longer, I've said that too. If they are longer, there will be a mid-term evaluation of whether the fact complex the inspector has assessed is exactly the same. I'm still behind that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u18	Now it will be a substantive discussion, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u19	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u20	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u21	Because what the Secretary of State says isn't right. I was concerned with his response dated 8 June, which literally states: "No APAs or ATRs have been closed indefinitely." That was his answer. My question was actually addressed to the Prime Minister, namely whether he shares that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u22	I think I can also say on behalf of the Prime Minister that that answer is still correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u23	Good. Mr Asscher, new point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u24	Sure. There may be a compromise. I note that the cabinet does not want to make everything public and invoke the law. Nevertheless, I support the request. Perhaps it is conceivable that the information relating to this determination agreement should be examined which does not directly affect business sensitive information. Something like that also indicated Jesse Klaver at the scheme this afternoon. This could be very important for the political debate. Because of course it takes place in the lobby of certain companies, it is important to know when it has been discussed and with whom it has been discussed. This does not really affect the taxpayer's interest. That is purely about our task here to control the government in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u25	Then what was your question? I haven't heard that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u26	It's a proposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u27	I'd like to begin with Marijnissen's request. If that were to be rejected, I would ask the secondary at least to make public the information relating to this individual determination agreement which does not affect business-sensitive information, but is important for the political debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u28	Mr. Chairman. Actually, as you yourself concluded, we're going to stay in a little circle here. I have tried to explain that we have two legal obligations: 67 AWR and 68 Constitution. We both think it's important. We want to choose a balance between them. Indeed, you must protect the taxpayer from a public debate on his declaration. A taxpayer may be forced or set up by someone else to do so. That's why. We have also had this debate before, about how it can be that a company says it has concluded a settlement agreement with the Tax Administration and that the government says that it cannot, unfortunately, rule on whether or not a settlement agreement exists because it would violate confidentiality. I understand that inconvenience very well. We've talked about that before in AO's. That is uncomfortable, but it is because I consider both elements, both weights, of this balance to be important. That is why we sometimes decide to do something else, for example a technical briefing. You will then be able to make use of your political assessment of what has happened, and you will be able to weigh it up. Then we can discuss the policy and legislation that we propose as a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u29	I'm sorry, it's a point of order. A proposal has been made. That proposal is also supported by a number of Members, I understand. If this proposal is to be made concretely, we should simply vote on it. Because we also need to move forward with the debate. Mrs. Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u30	My colleagues have also pointed out that Shell's President-in-Office has also looked up the social debate and made it clear that it was a good deal. I do not read anything in the letter about whether there was an extra interest or an extra reason for the cabinet to say: okay, now that that happens, we should also be able to share our side of the story with the Chamber. So I'd like to comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u31	I would like to take a little distance from the word 'tax deal', because then it seems as if a given security is a deal or a result of a negotiation and that is not the case. An APA/ATR gives advance security that is no different from the outcome of a tax charge. So I try to keep the word "deal" away a bit, because that is really wrong. The second is that, as I have just said, Article 67 leaves the possibility for the taxpayer to reveal things, but does not give us the opportunity to do so, if it has done so. So we're still under 67 AWR.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u32	Thank you. I shall then see if Mrs Marijnissen wishes to put her request to the vote and ask for an address to the House. If that's accepted, we need to look at the sequel. If that is not the case, we will continue the debate. Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u33	Mr President, I am afraid there is nothing else to be done. When I hear this reply from the Prime Minister and his Secretary of State, we are not getting much better, and that seems useful to me to be able to conduct the debate properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u34	Okay, then we'll vote on your request. But first, we are going to make that request clear. Perhaps you would like to mention that explicitly so that people also know what they are going to vote on, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u35	As far as I am concerned, the request that we vote on openness on all the information about the deal with Shell, on which Trouw has published, led to the tax avoidance of 7.5 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-31.u36	Okay. Then I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments and then we shall vote on this request. Thank you.
