ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u1	We are now going to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA for his question to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment about wrong grading in supermarkets. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State. I call Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 260,000 people work at the supermarkets. They ensure that the boxes are filled, that we are able to do our shopping properly, that we are helped and that we are properly helped at the cash register. Three quarters of employees at supermarkets are under 23 years of age. The supermarket is actually a kind of training place for a lot of young people who take a first step on the labour market. That's a nice thing. But also many of these young people, almost all of them, have a flexible contract, a temporary contract. So if they notice anything wrong or wrong in the workplace, they do not dare to raise their finger, because then they probably lose their job. If not Jesse. Because Jesse works at the supermarket. It's not Jesse Klaver, chairman of the board, and he found himself underpaid. He's been trained as a cashier, but he's getting paid a salary scale lower. With Jesse, as it turns out, there are many young people who don't get paid for the work they do. Jesse e-mailed the program #BOOS. #BOOS was also in the Chamber last week with Jesse. Jesse's question was justified, because the employer didn't give it home. The employers in the supermarkets pay many young people lower than what they should actually get, so he came to us, to the House of Representatives, to ask us what we can do for the position of all those young people who want to get paid normally. Because it saves one of those euros an hour. You'd say one euro an hour? Well, that's a lot of young people's money. My question to the Secretary of State is what she thinks of the behaviour of supermarkets, which are structurally underpaid young people. Question two: is she willing to table with the supermarkets as soon as possible and raise this problem to solve it for all those young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Mr Gijs van Dijk for his question, because he has a rightful concern that many young people live with. They not only live with young people who start their careers in the supermarket, but also with all those young people who are looking for a holiday job at the beginning of the summer and wonder what their rights are. This is a very important subject. So I understand very well that this concerns the moods very strongly. Fortunately, there are a lot of employers who pay their employees very well, but there are certainly also those who throw their hats at them. That's why it's important that you know what your rights are and where you can ring the bell. The grading of work is based on collective agreements and individual contracts of employment. The government has no role in these two matters. This is what employers and employees are all about. That also means that if you have a dispute, you have to go to either side. So, if Mr Van Dijk asks me what I think of it, I would like to stress that I find it incredibly important that an employer honours the agreements contained in the law, in the collective agreement or in the broader collective agreement, and that you therefore call the bell where you have to ring the bell. This may indeed be with the employer, the works council or the trade union, as many young people have done. I therefore assume that if there are about 1,000 reports at FNV Jong, this is a reason for partners around the collective agreement to sit down with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u5	Of course, I expected such an answer. Because, of course, it is up to employers and employees. They make agreements: the collective agreement. You expect such a collective agreement that employers behave properly and just pay all those people what they should earn. In this case, this is happening in the supermarkets, which we do not know structurally. So I find that really too easy, even for a cabinet that says: "We stand for the future of young people. We're in the middle of a job. We stand for permanent work. We stand for a good income." I expect this Secretary of State, who deals with working conditions and inspection, to say: "Yes, of course, employers and employees have to sit down. But I am also willing to be an active secretary of state, who will speak to the supermarkets and want to know exactly what is going on." And if it's really wrong, if those employees can't get home to their employer, is the Secretary of State prepared to start that conversation after all and then, if it turns out to be true, to use the inspection for an independent investigation? Because we do have these resources here in The Hague. If we see a breach of the collective agreement, the inspection can carry out an independent investigation. Given the situation and the future of all those young people, that seems to me to be really justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u6	I also like an active attitude very much. That's what I like. I certainly have some suggestions for what can be done, both by the inspection and by the partners. According to the agreements we have made with each other, the social partners are the first partners to come to the table. I'm assuming they're going to visit each other on the basis of these signals. Then they could agree to look at branches that have their own compliance body. This is the case in some places, for example in the broadcasting sector and in construction. In fact, the SZW inspection can also inspect collective agreements. If these 1,000 reports include statements or reports on the collective agreement of the supermarket, then I assume that these reports will come along. Then the inspection is indeed in a position to get to work. At the time I started preparing this question, we had not yet received any mention of it. But it may also be important to underline what young people can do themselves. In the run-up to this question, I've been googling on "holiday jobs" and "knowing what your rights are." Fortunately, there are a lot of websites, ranging from FNV Jong to all kinds of teenage magazines, which remind young people of these rights. I think it's also very important that you know where you stand when you knock on that employer's door for a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u7	I'm happy with young people like Jesse. Now the reports that are now coming through #BOOS and FNV Jong show that there are many more young people who, despite their uncertain situation, dare to stand up and say: I am fighting for my right; I have a collective agreement and I have rights, and I am going to stand for it. I also expect the cabinet, which, like the Labour Party and many other parties here, is concerned about the future of young people, because they are often in uncertain situations. I would therefore like to end by emphasising the struggle that Jesse and his colleagues are fighting, and that it is not yet over as far as we are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u9	I also think this issue is important, because I recently joined an SZW inspector, who also talked about fraud and the like. We can see here that some biggrutters keep a lot of money in their pocket at the expense of a younger group. We shouldn't want that, because you should get equal pay for equal work. So the question is: can the Secretary of State make an extra effort if she is told about what
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u10	I can say in general terms that if you want to deviate from an industry-cao, you can only do that with dispensation from the social partners. So I'd have to dive a little more into the case. We have had a lot of discussions here about healthy and safe work, fair work, and that is where today's story falls under the heading of psychosocial working conditions, for example. I also think it is important that we take the time to discuss that broader framework of the deployment of the inspection. That's what we're gonna do in the third quarter of this year. We are going to make an overall assessment of this, because these priorities are competing with each other for priority, and rightly so, I think when we hear this story again. But it is also good to see what responsibility different partners can bear in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you.
