ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u1	Let us now move on to the debate. I'm just gonna wait till things calm down. Let's move on to the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Thieme on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last week the negotiations between industry and the environmental movement broke down. Marjan van Loon van Shell asked for help. Shell "needs an extra boost at this stage." A euphemism for: Shell only wants to contribute to green energy if it receives additional subsidies. That's a lot of guts. We already knew Shell as a world power, pumping fossil resources from Nigeria to the North Pole. That brutality has gotten a new face. Shell is the company that, according to Amnesty International, has been involved in murders and torture in Nigeria, which does not back down billions in bribes to suspicious regimes, which spends more money on marketing than on sustainability, which has known for over 30 years that fossil fuel causes climate change but continues to pump, and which in 2005 closed a secret billion-dollar deal with the Dutch Tax Service. Citizens and SMEs pay taxes. Shell feels too big to pay. And the cabinet goes along with that. Mr. Chairman. This evening we are debating the legality of this exorbitant gift on behalf of the taxpayer, without his knowledge, to a company with an extremely questionable corporate morale. The cabinet updated some of the group chairmen and members in a secret briefing this afternoon. After the secret committee on intelligence and security services, we now also have a commercial committee secretly. My group has thanked you for that back room politics. Mr. Chairman. It was Marjan van Loon himself who sought the public debate by claiming that there is nothing illegal about the deal. Should the voter believe Shell on his blue eyes? Isn't it up to us, people's representatives, to judge whether something is legal? How can voters judge this kind of deal and its political responses as long as it remains a ghost game? Not as far as we're concerned. It's time for radical integrity. The Prime Minister is hiding behind secrecy. He refuses to answer questions in public. Does he agree with me that, in a democracy, Parliament is the highest authority and that the protection of business data should therefore give way to the right to democratic control, especially now that the social uproar is so great? Mr. Chairman. As soon as Dutch multinationals get into trouble, the cabinet is ready to help them at taxpayers' expense. That was already the case with Shell in 2005. Shell had to downgrade his oil reserves, the price fell, shareholders became angry and Shell promised to turn it into a Dutch company, with The Hague as its headquarters. This tax deal played a decisive role in this. Last year, history repeated itself when Unilever threatened to be taken over. Here too, the reaction was to turn it into a Dutch company. And that could cost. Back then, Minister Kamp had a real bidbook drawn up, as if it were about winning the Olympics. We have no idea what the Secretary of State Unilever has promised. The e-mails that NRC received wobbingly have been wiped away from top to bottom. The abolition of the dividend tax is now as ready as ever. Many times the Chamber has asked for clarification. Let me ask you again: was the abolition of the dividend tax in the bidbook that had to attract Unilever's British headquarters to the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. Adding together the gifts that multinationals have received, I come to the amount of at least EUR 5 billion per year: EUR 400 million per year for Shell, EUR 1.4 billion for the abolition of dividend tax and EUR 3 billion for the reduction of corporation tax. And that every year. And we have no idea what other secret deals have been made. It is tax money that is not available for care, education, poverty reduction or greening. For the same amount, we could make 365,000 homes a year natural gas-free. Then we have to think about all the houses in The Hague and Utrecht. What would you rather do, President: give the large business a gift or make houses natural gas-free? I'd know. But now we're giving it to foreign shareholders, without democratic control. The deal with Shell fits a pattern. While citizens and SMEs have been working longer over the past 15 years and have been paying more for care, education, fruit and vegetables, multinationals have received gifts one after the other: lower taxes, deductions, control over research funds, free trade agreements, it cannot be met. In the meantime, the public can bear the cost of our infrastructure, our education and our rule of law, which multinational companies, let us not forget, are partly responsible for their profits. It's not surprising. For the past 15 years, 15 cabinet members came from Shell. Three rulers of Rutte III worked at Shell. And the prime minister was on Unilever's payroll. It is not surprising that the deal with Shell was made in 2005 under Gerrit Zalm, who has been Commissioner of Shell since 2013 and co-architector of the coalition agreement. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands must be stopped as a welfare state for multinationals. Equally, I believe that the bio-industry must be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u4	Mr. Chairman. "Rutte III no longer has a choice. The government coalition will have to replace the proposed abolition of dividend taxation with a much better proposal, such as a tax package for small and medium-sized enterprises. If Rutte III does not do so, the government coalition will suffer from this headache record throughout the reigning period." According to Professor Willem Supposedly in De Telegraaf of 23 June. 50PLUS shares the view that Rutte III no longer has a choice: the abolition of the dividend tax must be removed. That is what we thought, and we will continue to find it. I think that I have never seen so much alternative spending over my entire career as for the 1.5 billion that the cabinet has allocated to abolishing this damned tax. Politicians from different parties and whole battery opinion makers have spent the money together a hundred times. I don't blame anyone for that. Also within my own party there are several ideas about what we can do better or best with that money. The suggestion of Supposedly is sympathetic and worth a consideration, but there are other good suggestions, which we can probably come back to. I mention, for example, a reduction in the own risk of €100, the reversal of the acceleration of the increase in the AOW age, which is structuralally about that amount, so that is so arranged; no, that is one-off, so that is even easier to carry out and compensate for the decrease in the purchasing power of pensioners. This year, they are facing even higher inflation, but they are not getting an increase in wages and no indexation. Mr President, back to the subject. Unfortunately, the debate now focuses on the way in which the decision was reached. Suddenly, all the opinions and e-mails of officials during the cabinet formation became crucial in order to have this debate. We believe that this is wrong, because that is very distracting from the substance of the matter. I would like to quote Mr Verheugen again on this point: 'Everyone already knows that the proposed abolition of the dividend tax is the result of a lobby of multinationals at the VVD and that there is no convincing economic justification for this'. Mr. Chairman. The VVD has played an opaque game. The VVD summit was persuaded by lobbyists to abolish the dividend tax, without submitting it to its own members, without including it in the election programme and without having it passed on to the Central Planning Bureau. Becoming a Job Champion was more important than the truth. Well, we did it! Congratulations! Oh, but not without that opaque game. We still think that was a big mistake, because then you don't deserve to push through your evil plan. Hopefully the Chamber will succeed in making a fist and getting rid of the dividend tax. Mr. Chairman. We have just had an order debate with a vote. I have just referred to the Rules of Procedure and there is an opportunity to discuss it in plenary with closed doors. I'll give that opportunity to the chairman. Then all Members of Parliament will have the same opportunity as the Finance Committee had this afternoon with some MPs who are not members of the Finance Committee. That was a good, confidential consultation. I sense a great need for more information throughout the Chamber, but we also clearly believe that it cannot be done in public. Let's say there's a need for that all over the room. The Rules of Procedure contain Rule 32 on closed debate. Article 37 goes into that in greater detail. The Rules of Procedure also state Rule 144: Secrecy in plenary session with closed doors. I'll just read that article to you, because I still have time: "1. The exchange of views in a closed-door plenary session shall be subject to confidentiality. 2. The confidentiality shall be respected by those present at the hearing and by all those who have knowledge of the proceedings or documents until the Chamber has removed it. 3. The secrecy may be removed by the Chamber meeting with closed doors." Article 32 states: "In accordance with the relevant provisions of the Constitution, the doors shall be closed when a tenth of the number of members present so requests or the President considers it necessary. The Assembly shall then decide whether to discuss and decide with closed doors.' Mr President, I would like to put that proposal to you, with the question of whether, perhaps after the cabinet's willingness to arrange a private consultation in committee, we had this afternoon; that consultation was with more Members of Parliament than only the members of the Finance Committee, the cabinet also has the willingness to meet in plenary session at cabinet level. Mr President, that is the question I put to you on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, because we also attach great importance to enabling all Members, in private, to 'decided' to take note of the whole dossier, as we have been given this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u5	I do not know if that is a concrete proposal, but it does not solve anything in our view, because it is not a question of bringing the committee's decision to the House of Representatives. It's about making the public. "Audience" does not mean that we close the doors here instead of in a room. "Audience" means that the whole of the Netherlands hears it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u6	We voted against the motion of censure tabled by your group. In particular, we did so because it is very clear: the information on the ruling, the fixing agreement, was already published by Shell itself in the documentation in 2004. So it's been known for 14 years. So that's nothing new. So you can't say: now that Shell announced that 14 years ago, it has to be public here too. That is also not an argument for the cabinet and for the State Secretary as head of the Tax Administration, who stands for the confidentiality requirement in Article 67. If an exception is made once, for whatever reason, other taxpayers know that confidential information about a small or large tax file may come out at the request of the Court. This could mean that new companies will not settle in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u7	Mr. Van Rooijen, if you have a proposal for another way of sharing information, you should do so in a motion. It's up to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u8	I can do that in second term, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u9	That seems to me... You're free to go. In this respect...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u10	Yes, a first-term motion is very unusual. It is rather an order proposal; I can table a motion in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u11	The Rules of Procedure state that this proposal must either be made by 15 Members or not. Does Mr Van Rooijen have 15 Members who make this proposal? If so, we need to talk about it. Or we'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u12	In addition. So it is not a point of order, it is an order proposal. That should be done immediately or not, but not in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u13	I don't know. A request is being made to me and I say that it is actually up to the Chamber. In Mr Wilders' terminology, by the way, this is called 'difficulating', so I'm going to find out. I now turn to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u14	Madam President. It may sound a bit strange, but I really want to have a solid substantive debate on the government's plan to abolish the dividend tax. You'd say that's what they talk about almost every week, right? No, it is really a lot about the noise around it and quite little about the real plans, the backgrounds, the reasons, the question whether it is indeed an important measure to strengthen the locational climate in the Netherlands and whether the money can best be used for this purpose or whether the same locational climate can be served in a different way. That kind of question could very well be addressed if there was just a legislative proposal containing this plan, a explanatory statement explaining it, a written round of questions, an opinion from the Council of State and just a very old-fashioned debate on the basis of good substantive preparation and then the question: are you in favour or against? That debate, we are actually looking forward to it. In the meantime, we've talked a lot about the noise around it. There have been all kinds of motions, procedural proposals, and I don't know what anymore. New surprises every time. That is fascinating in itself, but I must say that it has also had an effect that our enthusiasm for this measure, i.e. the abolition of dividend taxation, has not really increased. This is actually a compliment to the opposition, but I would not do justice to the Prime Minister if I did not compliment him on his part in this. By saying at different moments: "Yes, it doesn't quite make sense what I said" or "It was just a bit different" he actually did his best to say that it might not be as thorough as it seemed. I am actually wondering, Prime Minister, why you have given so many presents to the opposition against these plans so far. We would like to postpone our assessment until we have the actual discussions on this subject later this year. In fact, this evening's major issue is another matter other than the abolition of the dividend tax, namely whether certain advantages have been granted to multinationals by rulings, i.e. determination agreements, which others do not have, while there is a law that states that everyone has to pay dividends tax and whether they have not been interpreted and applied in such a way that certain companies are not already required to pay dividends tax. That is actually another question, but also an interesting issue that has been raised today. The evening began with the question of whether we should not have all this information publicly before we can talk about it properly. To be honest, I think that the government is right to invoke all kinds of statements and quotes, including from the past. I have just checked the notes by Minister De Vries on the interpretation of Article 68 of the Constitution. We discussed them in the Chamber in January 2002, among other things. It says: data that typically relate to individual companies cannot be provided publicly. That's why you might be thinking about confidential information. That is what happened in this situation. That is why we did not support the proposal to make everything public. Mr Asscher rightly raised this point and, of course, Mr Klaver also had a point when he said that it is not an absolute ban and that it is always a balance of interests. Between everything and nothing and between completely confidential and completely public, of course, there is always the question of whether parts of this discussion, certain information, can be made public. Also for the relevant explanation of passages from that dividend tax law on how to apply certain articles of law, not in this individual case but more generally, I think that it is certainly possible for us as a parliament to continue the debate just after that confidential knowledge. Each party is also free to determine, also heard what has been exchanged in the confidential briefing, that it wants to make proposals to tighten up that dividend tax law. That seems to me to be a sensible follow-up, which we can have even after today's confidential briefing. In the meantime, a more general debate has been announced on the rulings, because I understand that in the autumn we will also receive further information from the Secretary of State on those rulings. For my group, it is important that, on the one hand, we can maintain that legal certainty is also provided in advance to individuals, companies and stakeholders in complex cases. "This is how that law is explained in your situation. You do not have to wait, because we want to make that known already." This may be useful in itself, also in the context of a good locational environment, but on the other hand, because of the secrecy surrounding it, we do not want to see more favourable arrangements for certain companies than for others. In other words, it is always ensured that the law is applied with integrity. In this context, I would also ask the Secretary of State how this practice has been regulated so far. Is that free of political influence? And is that also on an equal footing for all those who want to make use of it? Mr. Chairman. For the rest, I would like to continue the debate here when we have that letter on the rulings in the autumn. Then I would like to thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u15	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u16	Mr. Chairman. It's been a rough week, and I can say it was a real pain in the ass. And life in politics, it eats away at you every once in a while. Many have been able to see that, because what we saw was not beautiful. We saw a man toiling. We saw him trying to keep a divided Europe together, because Europe has recently become his new love. And to make matters worse, the Prime Minister had to answer here last week. Mr Marijnissen had called the Prime Minister here. And he was obviously trying to get out of it. He thought he could get rid of it with a quickie and sent Secretary of State Snel with the bullshit argument that this was the subject matter of government. As if the dividend tax is still a matter of content! Eventually, the minister was forced to his knees. The room just wanted him here. As a little child he stood there and he looked as if he had refreshed his last earpiece: sip and taunted, with his arms crossed, a little nasty. Just like today! And he came again with the familiar whirlwind: I can't say anything, because it's secret. But what's he gonna do? The abolition of the dividend tax cannot be defended. It's just a bad idea. Mr President, I know from experience how important it is to test an idea properly first! Especially if the idea isn't in your election program. But it's a mystery to me how they do that at the VVD. As I said last time, I'm a bit of a fan of Klaas Dijkhoff. An extremely intelligent man and I dress almost the same these days. But if we then ask why this is good get the answer from Klaas: it's a guess... give away 1,600 million on the basis of a gamble. Then I'm really starting to doubt it. Mr. Chairman. Last time I spoke about the four buddies of multinationals, the magicians of big business, the Daltons of dividend tax. But what does it turn out to be? Just now there were two Daltons in the Chamber and there's only one left. Dalton Pechtold, Dalton Buma and Dalton Segers are on the run. They took off and sent their replacements, their spokesmen. Only Dalton Rutte has to fight parliament. He's just a poor lonesome Dalton. Mr. Chairman. It's been memorized a few times. I have a feeling, some sort of déjà vu, that we've been here before. Who remembers the movie Groundhog Day, that film with Bill Murray in which he wakes up every day as a grumpy weatherman at the same time, and every day his alarm clock radio starts with Sonny and Cher's song: I got you babe? Every day is exactly the same. He's trapped in a time loop on his own, making the day start over and over again. This goes on until he makes the right decisions. Only then will he be freed. Prime Minister Rutte sits like a grumpy weatherman in his own Groundhog Day. Every morning the alarm clock goes and every day it's about that lid dividend tax. Again and again the people who don't understand. Again and again the opposition in parliament, that manly Marijnissen, that waking Clover, that authentic Old Hand, that assertive Asscher. I couldn't think of anything for Martin van Rooijen, because everything you say about Martin van Rooijen really doesn't do him justice. I sometimes get the impression that with his experience he was there when the steam locomotive was invented. Mr. Chairman. It's the job of the House of Representatives to shoot down bad ideas. That's what we do at DENK and it's not that hard. With us it took three days to shoot off a bad idea, but with Mark Rutte we've been working for eight months, and he's getting closer and closer. At first, he didn't have any memories, and then he did. At first there was no memo and then there turned out to be 30. At first, there was no tax deal, and then there was the deal. Last week he didn't know the deal, and today he does. Mr President, it is now getting serious. While we are here working on our debates and our endless question-and-answer games, 500 questions have been answered. Shell's shareholders have been avoiding tax in the Netherlands since 2005, and they are doing so with the permission of our Tax Service. Seven-and-a-half billion they've taken together. What could the Netherlands have done with that? How many teachers is that? How many cops? How many people in care? How many young people we could have accompanied? I have a number of specific questions for the Prime Minister. Is paying dividends by Shell through a subsidiary in Jersey contrary to the dividend tax law? Is this illegal state aid, as a number of experts say? If illegal state aid is involved, can we get it back, as with Starbucks and Google, and can we do it before we get caught up in Europe? Is it true that the rulings by the APA/ATR team in Rotterdam relate only to the interpretation of the law and, of course, not to that law itself? Can the Government release all rulings that are of the nature of a tax rebate? I would like a full and substantive reply from the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State. I conclude with what the Prime Minister himself calls a "her in the soup." We've seen this Prime Minister go astray before. We have seen him pull a lot of hair out of that soup: the longest study fines, the commuter tax, the income-dependent care premium, the salary dispensation, the VAT increase and now the abolition of the dividend tax. I would therefore urge the Prime Minister to make a final adjustment. For as Cicero once said, everyone can go astray, but only fools persevere in their error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u17	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u18	Mr. Chairman. As a small country, the Netherlands benefits from a healthy and strong economy. A favourable locational environment must ensure that companies remain in the Netherlands or choose the Netherlands as their location. A strong business is important for now and for the future, because companies provide jobs. Many people depend on these companies for their jobs and income. A favourable location climate does not just come to light, especially in a world that is changing. As a small country, we will have to fight for it, for every company. We don't have to look so far away to see that there are developments that affect our economy. A good example is the Brexit. Companies in the UK are thinking about where their future lies. The VVD is very much in favour of companies that are in favour of this choice choosing the Netherlands. In the coalition agreement, therefore, we are taking a number of steps to improve the locational environment: the abolition of dividend tax, the reduction of corporation tax, the reduction of income tax and social security measures. Measures that we are not taking for ourselves, but to be an attractive country and to remain for all those companies that provide just those jobs. Mr. Chairman. It will not be the last time we talk about abolishing the dividend tax. We will come back to this in detail at the 2019 Tax Plan and I look forward to that, just like Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u19	The group chairman of the VVD called it a gamble. Now we have an argument about the locational climate. Has the VVD actually found economists who consider this a sensible measure? 'Cause of course, you're gonna have to be careful with your money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u20	We certainly need to be careful with our money. When we look at the abolition of the dividend tax, we all know the CPB report. We have read in it that the CPB cannot quantify it but that there may indeed be effects, in any case on the number of jobs but also on the reduction of administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u21	If I hand over 1.6 billion euros to someone, there could be effects. I agree. I've rarely seen the CPB so critical of such a huge investment. But my question was whether the VVD in the meantime, we are now about eight months in debate on this issue, and I mean not paid by Shell, who say it is a good idea to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u22	I think Mr Asscher was also at the round table where we heard a lot of people about this measure. I have heard a number of very positive sounds being put forward there. Again, what the VVD is about is that this measure is not in itself. In the coalition agreement, we agreed on a package of measures, precisely to improve the locational environment. I have just mentioned a number of others. In this combination, we assess this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u23	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u24	Mrs. Lodders refers to a public hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u25	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u26	For the record, I can quote from that. There were actually three very positive sounds there about this measure: VNO-NCW, Shell and Unilever. That wasn't surprising. But my question was: are there any independent researchers, economists who think it is sensible? The answer to that is no. A game like that is lame, I can see that. But then be honest and say: it's a gamble, we agreed, we're stuck with it now. I thought Klaas Dijkhoff was more honest, because this is really putting EUR 1.6 billion into the sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u27	What the VVD is about is making and keeping the location climate attractive. To this end, abolishing the dividend tax is one measure of a package with a whole range of other measures, and I am happy to stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u28	What does Mrs Lodder think of the fact that there is a petition against the abolition of dividend tax, that there is an enormous amount of social unrest about the gift of EUR 1.4 billion to large companies? How does she explain to the people at home who do not understand that they are being cut down and often have such a difficult life, especially when they have to get their shit together at the bottom of society, that such a big company like Shell gets such a gift and other multinationals idem?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u29	I have just said in my speech that it is not about measures for myself or for my group. We are concerned that we have a good locational environment, that companies choose the Netherlands if they are in favour of a choice. I am not even so concerned about the companies. I am concerned that the people who depend on jobs can work at such a company, that they can choose a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u30	That's what the VVD has been trying to tell people for a few months now, but it's not convincing. In fact, the opposition to this terrible decision is only increasing. So apparently the VVD doesn't know how to explain it. Is it not important to listen to the objections of all those people, including those who started the petition, and to reconsider? In the end, you are a representative of the people, who must listen to what the people want, instead of listening to those few CEOs of multinationals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u31	Mr. Chairman. I can keep repeating my answer. I'm interested in the locational climate. The abolition of the dividend tax is one measure in a package of measures to ensure that companies remain in the Netherlands and that companies opt for the Netherlands. Again, for all those people who want a job and who depend on a job for their income. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u32	Finally, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u33	Has Mrs Lodder ever spoken to someone who has a son who can no longer have child care because they have been cut down on that? Did Mrs Lodders also say that with the EUR 1.4 billion, we are doing so for the location climate in the Netherlands? What was the answer from such an ordinary Dutchman? Did he say: oh yes, I do understand; I'll wait with that youth care for my son?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u34	As a representative of the people, I speak to a great many people in the country. That's one of the finest sides of my office. Again, I am concerned about the locational climate. I want to ensure that people can find jobs, that people who depend on an income can actually take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u35	If it turns out that there are people in welfare, even if there are only ten, who have earned something, for example because they have received money for their birthday or because they have sold their wedding dress on Marketplace, then the VVD is the very first to say: what a shame! We are talking about taxpayers' money and we need to be careful how this is spent; we need to recover money that we are wrongly giving away. This happens in the case of people who are on assistance, for people who receive benefits, such as the child care allowance or care allowance. But now it is reported in the newspaper that perhaps 7 billion euros have been wrongly given away to Shell. What is the response of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u36	I read the message, too. This post was written by a professor, and is based on public documents, at least documents that are accessible to everyone. We had a private briefing this afternoon. The word says it all: decided. So I can't go into that. The only question you can ask, and I will put it to the Secretary of State later, is about rulings in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u37	The question I asked is very relevant. I see a double morale in the VVD: the way citizens are looked at and how they are controlled versus how big companies are handled. That is why I have proposed the establishment of a parliamentary survey. If EUR 7 billion has been wrongly given away, I expect the VVD to be our ally. It's gotta be on the lead. It has to say: EUR 7 billion wrongly given away? It can't be! That money was raised by the taxpayer. That's how I know the VVD. But now that it's about Shell, the VVD is so careful. I hope that you stand next to me, and next to a lot of parties here, and say: the bottom stone must be above. And that will also support the proposal for a parliamentary survey. Because we have to find out if the government is spending its money properly. EUR 7 billion, that is what we need to find out whether this is true, whether it is true or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u38	In general terms, I will put that question to the Secretary of State in a moment. I hold to the point: we had a closed briefing this afternoon. The name says it already: decided. So I'm afraid I can't go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u39	It was about Mr Klaver's proposal, I understand, on a parliamentary survey.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u40	I'll ask the question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u41	No, I'm not giving you that opportunity, because then you're gonna come up with another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u42	I didn't hear the question, or it wasn't asked directly. I have heard Mr Klaver say: I hope you will stand next to me. But again, I will be asking the Secretary of State some questions about the rulings, the practice and the measures he intends to take. That is enough, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u43	Then Mr Klaver may repeat the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u44	The President looks very closely, so I shall confine myself to the question. I asked: does the VVD support our proposal to conduct a parliamentary survey to see if the EUR 7 billion was actually spent wrongly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u45	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan verwijzen naar de besloten bijeenkomst die wij vanmiddag met elkaar gehad hebben.]] I can go into that in detail, but I can't. There is a duty of confidentiality, including for us as parliamentarians. All I've heard is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u46	I came up with another question about the interrupting microphone, but this is extremely amazing. I think Mr Klaver is asking for support for a parliamentary survey here. That has nothing to do with what was discussed this afternoon. I would once again like to ask Mrs Lodder...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u47	Lodges.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u48	Lodges, thank you. I would like to ask her through you whether she wishes to support that. That has nothing to do with this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u49	The question posed that there is a lot wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u50	I haven't been in Parliament for long, but I think it's true that we want to get to the bottom of each other because we've been talking for eight months, because we've asked 500 questions and because, as Mr Van der Staaij said, there's just no substantive discussion on the basis of facts, arguments and investigations in this house, but we're spending 1.6 billion. Your group chairman speaks of 'a gamble'. We're not gonna give away 1,600 million, are we? Mr Klaver's request is therefore entirely reasonable. Let's take a good look at that. My question is: do you support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u51	No, my group does not support that. Mr Azarkan raises the point that we have not had a substantive debate. No, it is not, because the law on the abolition of dividend taxes is not yet in place either. I look forward to that with great interest. It will be part of the 2019 Tax Plan. We shall then come to this House once again to discuss it in detail, including the arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u52	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u53	Then there is my question, because I was just in Mr Klaver's slipstream. I hear the argument that it is good for the locational climate very often. I've read a lot about that, but I can't get that out of anything. Can the spokesperson for the VVD, Mrs Lodders, indicate on the basis of which she is convinced that this will lead to a better locational environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u54	Oh, yeah. If companies opt for the Netherlands, it is not just a principal place of business that is placed in the Netherlands. There are all kinds of SMEs andzzp'ers working for such enterprises. Think of restaurants, sandwich shops, hotels, and I can go on for a while. In my view, my group chairman has mentioned the example of a colleague of ours about a taxi which depends for a large part on the location of a company in the Netherlands. So that's pretty weedy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u55	Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u56	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u57	No, no, Mr. Azarkan. Everyone has the opportunity to ask three questions. You've done the same. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u58	I would like to add my voice to Mr Azarkan's question. I was wondering whether Mrs Lodder took note of the memos, notes, documents or whatever you would like to call them, which we received for the debate on 25 April.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u59	Yeah, I've taken note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u60	I am very surprised, then, that Mrs Lodders is making a very enthusiastic plea for improving the locational environment, while the Ministry of Finance does not say the least in my view: 'The conclusion that the abolition of dividend taxation is essential to the investment climate cannot therefore be drawn'. Does the Department of Finance talk out of it? How does Mrs Lodder feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u61	No, like so many times I am always very content with this. We get a lot of official documents from the ministries. It is ultimately up to the politicians to make a decision. That is what has happened in this case. But again, we are focusing very much on dividend taxation now, but it is part of a wide range of measures to improve the locational environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u62	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u63	Finally. Part of a wide package. We are indeed talking about the dividend tax tonight. Let it be just the dividend tax the Ministry of Finance says is absolutely impossible to say that it is essential for the investment climate in the Netherlands. You and your VVD keep repeating that, while there is hardly any economist in the Netherlands who supports this. The Ministry of Finance does not endorse it. When is the VVD going to repent? What is to be done before Mrs Lodder says: we may have made a wrong assessment; the 1.6 billion ECU because that is what it is now, we can spend much better?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u64	We are talking about jobs and people who depend on companies. It would adorn Mrs Marijnissen if it were also her to do the jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u65	You may respond briefly to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u66	About the jobs. Yeah, then I know the VVD as a party that's always talking about jobs. The VVD stands for entrepreneurs, for SMEs. Mrs Lodders, I would like you to stand for those jobs. Where were you when the cuts in health care struck and 77.000 people lost their jobs? That wasn't because of an economic decision by a company. That was the decision of a party, a political decision taken here. So why are you talking about jobs? If only the VVD were there for jobs, if only the VVD were there for SMEs, if only the VVD was there for the job engine of the Netherlands, because then you would do one thing, namely that 1.6 billion better spent than abolishing the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u67	We are spending it on abolishing the dividend tax, but at the same time we are also spending another 2 billion on healthcare, 1.5 billion on defence and 1.5 billion on education. So we do and-and-and in this coalition agreement. That is what I would like to tell Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u68	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u69	Mr. Chairman. This debate is also about rulings or so-called adoption agreements. A determination agreement is a clarification of the legislation issued by the Tax Administration to individual companies or individuals. This is useful to avoid uncertainty or a dispute between a company or entrepreneur and the Tax Administration. More and more often, a ruling, or that fixing agreement, is a shady deal outside the tax rules. Can the Secretary of State explain again why it is so important that this clarification can be given in advance? What's the effect on our locational climate? Can he indicate whether all the determination agreements are issued within the applicable laws and regulations? Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has indicated that he wants to make the ruling practice more transparent. This afternoon, the Chamber adopted a motion by Mrs Leijten. In a previous letter, the State Secretary has already indicated that he will have completed the new design as of 1 January 2019. Can the Secretary of State give us a little more direction? Is he on course with that review? Is it true, if I have read the letter correctly, that the priority lies primarily in the rulings or international agreements? In what way does he intend to make the rulings or the determination agreements more transparent? Mr. Chairman. I am glad that the Tax Administration is proactive in providing that clarity in advance, perhaps I should say 'law security'. Because for companies who want to settle somewhere, clarity can be just that little push to come to the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Last week, the judgment of the European Court of Justice focused on whether domestic and foreign investment funds should be treated in the same way. This was a matter between an asset manager and the Danish tax authorities. Has the Secretary of State taken note of this judgment? Can he comment on the consequences of this ruling? Mr. Chairman. I began my speech with the importance of a good locational climate, and I conclude with that. I cannot often emphasise how important it is to ensure that the Netherlands is and remains an attractive country. We cannot sit still, wait for developments in the rest of the world and think that the jobs are coming to us. No, with a favourable locational climate, an attractive country in which we invest a lot in good education, good accessibility and good care, we must tempt companies to choose the Netherlands, now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u71	It almost went between the nose and the lips, but Mrs Lodder said: we just had a briefing for an hour and a half. Does she mean to say: I have enough information about this deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u72	You see me doubting because I find it extremely difficult to determine what I can and cannot say about this closed briefing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u73	It's starting to get a little annoying. I'm not asking about the content at all. I have just been talking about a parliamentary survey, because I say that this is about EUR 7 billion, which we spend on Defence a year or so. That's what might have been wrongly given away to a company. I say, I don't have enough time and a half to figure out whether this fits the law or not. So I am proposing a parliamentary survey. I have just heard Mrs Lodder say: well, we have watched this for an hour and a half; I have no reason to doubt it. That's what I thought I heard between the lines. Is Mrs. Lodders convinced, or does she want more information to make sure that everything has remained within the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u74	If Mr Klaver has just listened carefully, he has heard that I am going to ask the Secretary of State again whether all the rulings, all the fixing agreements, comply with the law. And we spent over an hour and a half together this afternoon. Again, that's enough for me. That's exactly what I just reported. I think I have just said in your direction that we certainly do not support a parliamentary survey at the moment. But the questions lie with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u75	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u76	The controlling task of a Member of Parliament does not just mean asking the Secretary of State: is that right? That means doing your own research on all the relevant pieces there are. That's really more than just asking, isn't it? I also hope that's what the VVD thinks. As far as I am concerned, this really speaks of double standards, the way in which the VVD speaks of people in assistance and how multinationals are looked at. We are talking about EUR 7 billion, which we do not know has been unduly paid. And Mrs Lodder says: well, I've had an hour and a half briefing; I'm still asking the Secretary of State if it's right and it's okay for me. Is that what you do as a Member of Parliament, as a representative of the people? Is that what you're doing to see if taxpayers' money is being spent properly? If this is the view of the VVD, I hope that a lot of people in the Netherlands will wake up and see: that VVD, supposedly for the hardworking Dutchman, stands up for that hardworking CEO, for that hardworking multinational, but not for me. Because these multinationals can do whatever they want. The VVD doesn't control what's happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u77	Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u78	7 billion euros, and after an hour and a half the VVD says: I know enough...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u79	Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u80	... and if the Secretary of State can just say it's true, I'm satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u81	I do not want to do this, because I am also a representative of the people. I, too, deepen myself in the matter. Not for nothing I was at the briefing this afternoon. It's not for nothing that I go into a number of things that lie ahead. What Mr Klaver is doing is to lay down an article on the basis of public sources as a fact. That is why I put the question to the Secretary of State. We know there's a confidentiality obligation. We have now discussed this on a number of occasions, including in various interruptive debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u82	No, no, no, Mr. Clover. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u83	I'd like to make a personal statement, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u84	Then you can make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u85	Because I'm being addressed here in a way that's not right. I'm saying that we don't know what's going on with the 7 billion, and that's why I want more research. I expect the VVD to support us in that. At least I admit we don't know. The VVD says: we know enough; more research is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u86	You made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u87	I said what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u88	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u89	I have noticed the last time that when the opposition does its job, when we ask critical questions about spending 1.6 billion, when nothing shows that that is a good investment, when the CPB says "we do not notice any difference in the location climate," when other economists say that there are much better ways to spend this money than the VVD accuses us of not being interested in jobs in this country. I think that is a schwalbe, and I would like to ask Mrs Lodder if she withdraws it and does not come up with that bullshit argument every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u90	It's not a bullshit argument. I think that's what I've been going through in my story. Mr Azarkan may make his own assessment, but for my group it is extremely important that we work here on a good locational environment and that companies opt for the Netherlands, especially those who depend on jobs and their income from those jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u91	On what basis does Mrs Lodder base that, if we ask critical questions about the spending of 1,600 million euros, it would not be good for jobs in any other way? What's she basing that on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u92	In my speech, I have said a number of times that it is part of a package of measures. Mr Azarkan now zooms in on one measure. I would like to see the package of measures. We have said yes to this in the coalition agreement, and I would like to work very hard, not for myself, I repeat, but for the people of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u93	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u94	This really is not an answer to my question. My question is not about the fact that I now understand that if the VVD makes some good choices in the coalition agreement, she sometimes has the right to do very stupid things and that she says: look at us all doing other things, there's a silly thing in between and you can ask questions about that. That's not my question. My question is on which you base, as you have just said, that if we ask you critical questions about how you intend to spend it, your group chairman says that it is a gamble, the Prime Minister says that he feels he should do it, and on Mr Asscher's question, the first time, to name one economist who supports it, there was no positive answer. As an opposition, at least my party, we would not be interested in jobs in this country. My question is very simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u95	I'm going to repeat my speech. I'd be happy to do that. I referred to the CPB. That has indeed indicated that it cannot be quantified, but there is certainly a chance of jobs. I also mentioned what the CPB report said about administrative burden relief. At the same time, not only companies that establish themselves in the Netherlands provide jobs. Secondary services are still provided to companies. Those are jobs. Mr Azarkan can be difficult about that, but I can't make it any different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u98	I'm going to see Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u99	Mr. Chairman. The essence of tonight is whether the rulings that are issued have been issued within the framework of the laws and regulations. As a Chamber, we need to be able to check whether the ruling practice remains within the law and does not go on the fringes. That is why a number of valid questions have been asked today. The analysis we have seen from Professor Van de Streek seems quite accurate, so I say even though I am not a full expert on the dividend tax and have not seen the ruling either. I wrote this input before we had the continuation. This leads to the general observation that anyone can write anything about individual companies and a specific ruling, while the Secretary of State or the Prime Minister cannot reply. It leads to the particular situation that the Secretary of State may not even say whether Shell has a ruling, while offering a technical briefing of one hour and three quarters of an hour on a settlement agreement. That seems pretty long if there weren't one. Mr. Chairman. I have some questions for the government. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether the ruling on which the briefing was based falls within the framework of the tax legislation and how it has been verified? Did the Secretary of State check that extra? For this purpose, he took note of Shell's application to the SEC in 2005, where it explained the whole dividend access mechanism and where it said it happened for tax reasons. Is that taken into account? Can the government provide information on an individual taxpayer if the taxpayer himself does so? Can the Secretary of State, for example, confirm facts from Shell's annual report if he so wishes? Let's be honest: the company we're talking about has been quite open about how it deals with dividends. Then we come to the core: does Article 67 of the AWR allow the Tax Office or the State Secretary to correct incorrect reports from taxpayers? If, for example, an arms supplier would claim to have a Dutch ruling and it does not, would the Secretary of State be able to say that there is no ruling? The opposite is true, by the way. The predecessor of this Secretary of State, Secretary of State Weekers, has confirmed that a company itself can make its ruling public when Starbucks said in the British Parliament that it should not. Therefore, the ruling may be made public, but if a company does so, can the government confirm that that is the right and the whole ruling? The State Secretary also refers in his replies to the new design of the ruling practice. What is its relevance? The new design allows all rulings to go through the APA/ATR team, but if not through that APA/ATR team, I ask the Secretary of State. What rules generally apply to the dividend tax of foreign subsidiaries in a Dutch holding company? If this question is not specific enough, what facts and circumstances will the answer depend on? I've also looked at the rules. There's another motion from 1985 in this Chamber that says you have to explain it in policy decisions. I did not find a policy decision on a dividend access mechanism, because that is what this is about, of course. Has such a policy decision ever been made? Because if one company could have such a dividend access mechanism, so could other companies. That's equality before the law. And then the general terms would be published, not the specific determination agreement. Can you also indicate whether it is possible to pay capital under Dutch law? Mr President, my final question. How long do rulings issued last? I am referring in particular to the ATR rules. The APAs are limited in time. That also makes sense, because you don't make a pricing agreement for eternity, because circumstances change. But now there's something missing about the ATR rotations. For example, are ATR rules issued for four, five and ten years in a dual structure, as has been said so far? Or are they also issued indefinitely, where a particular dividend access mechanism is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u100	I know Mr Omtzigt as a politician who is always looking like a pit bull for the truth and who always wants a good answer to his question. Following on from the question he put to the Secretary of State, I am curious to see what Mr Omtzigt thinks of the answer given to the SP Group. We asked the Secretary of State the same question: have rulings been concluded indefinitely? The State Secretary's reply to this was that no APAs or ATRs, i.e. rulings, were closed indefinitely. What does Mr Omtzigt think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u101	That in itself is a clear answer, that they are not there. And yet I'm asking if they're not here. That is also because the answer to the parliamentary questions of the four coalition parties who arrived on Friday offers the opening that they could be there. That answer is 'Let us put it this way', not as clear as the answer given to Mrs Marijnissen's questions. That is also the background to this question to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u102	Okay, then I am very pleased with Mr Omtzigt's support for this urgent question to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u103	I'm here to check the cabinet, and I'll just keep doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u104	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I am going to ask a number of specific questions about the specific occasion for this debate, namely the publication of the ruling with Shell. But perhaps it is good to say more broadly in advance that during the negotiations D66 was not in favour of abolishing the dividend tax. We have said this before in this Chamber. We weren't convinced of the effect. But in the end, you have to give an opinion on a total package that is on the table, a total package that we have finally assessed as justified. It was justified because, in addition to abolishing the dividend tax, there was also a lot of beauty in it. The burden on people goes down by over EUR 5 billion a year, while companies are going to pay a little more tax. Work's gonna pay more. Income inequality is declining. We're greening the tax system. We tackle tax structures and tax avoidance firmly, including the transit of money to tax havens. Then there is the specific reason, namely the publication on Shell's ruling, the document on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u106	Very refreshing. Mr Van Weyenberg says here on behalf of D66: we do not like it either, but it is agreed and in its entirety... It's a bit like the melon the Christian Union always chews on in debates like this. If that's the case, you're actually saying we didn't like it, we didn't think of it, but yes, there were other things on the other side. I'm really appealing to the Democrats 66. Look at what we now know and how much resistance this measure raises, not only with this Chamber, but also with SMEs, taxpayers, teachers and nurses. Wouldn't it be wise to say, "Maybe we can reconsider?" If you make an unwise appointment, believe me, I know about that. In a coalition, you don't have to persevere in that for too long. It is high time to say that abolishing the dividend tax is really a bad idea. You'll find it. All you have to do is sit around the table during the summer holidays and say: let's think of something more sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u107	You make agreements, as Mr Asscher also knows, where parties are always more or less enthusiastic about certain elements. For the appointments I made, I am. That is how Mr Asscher knows me from an earlier past.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u108	That's not enough. You can be more or less enthusiastic, but you just aren't enthusiastic. You say we didn't make this up. You are of the facts. We know there's no economist to find who thinks it's wise. It's based purely on an article of faith from this Prime Minister. You can make an appointment one time that's not good, but it costs EUR 1.6 billion. The whole of the Netherlands thinks this is an insane measure. It's not just that I'm in front of my appointment, pomtidom. This is something Mr Van Weyenberg knows to be off the table. My question is simply whether he is prepared to reconsider it, otherwise the rest of his speech is not interesting either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u109	I would like to leave it to Mr Asscher to say later what he thinks of my speech and to make a judgment. The point is, when you make an appointment, there are things in there that you're excited about. I'm excited that the burden on people is going down by 5 billion. This point was one we didn't like. But this is the reverse of all kinds of other measures, including for other parties. And yes, I am standing for that appointment. I'll keep that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u110	Finally. Not nice! Not nice! EUR 1.6 billion, while you say at the same time that we have no money to pay the minimum wage for the disabled. That's not nice! At the same time, you're saying we're going to cut back on chronically ill: 250 million. That's not nice! Cut down on tenants: that's not nice! Giving away 1.6 billion when you can do sensible things with that, you just can't do that. My question is this: can D66 now call one supporter, an independent and not paid by Shell, of this measure? If not, then my request is really to come up with something that is nice, namely to spend this money wisely in the Netherlands in the interest of the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u111	The cabinet and also the coalition have tried to improve the location environment for jobs and innovation on the one hand and to tackle tax avoidance on the other. In addition, we are doing all kinds of other tax measures. In the end, we assess the overall package. There's always things you're more or less excited about. But I do stand for that appointment. Mr Asscher will not blame me for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u112	It happened pretty fast. If I am correct, Mr Van Weyenberg said that there was a lot of beauty in the package. Would he qualify this as something ugly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u113	This is an element that we were really not convinced of and were not in favour of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u114	Now I hear in the debates we've done with each other all the time: it's a total package, there were nice things, we've allowed this a little bit. We all know it. Is there any information that could come to Mr Weyenberg on the basis of which he says...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u115	From Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u116	Van Weyenberg: Did I say it wrong again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u117	Yeah, but I'm fine now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u118	You correct me so often: it makes me better and better. Thank you for that. And if I do it, I do it out of love and it's an accident.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u119	Well, look at that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u120	As you can see, it will only take more time if you interrupt me. Is there any information that Mr Weyenberg can take on through the colleagues who are putting him on a different point of view? If I listen to him carefully, he says: we made a deal with a lot of different measures; there were also great measures and this was an ugly one, but yes, we just do it. Does it therefore still make sense for us in this Parliament to discuss these matters with each other? Is that going to help him reconsider his opinion at any time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u121	I stand for appointments and at the same time we're gonna deal with the law. Mr Van der Staaij spoke about this very interestingly. I look forward to that treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u122	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u123	In 2013, during the low point of the crisis, it was decided to set a tenant fee. So we asked people with a small wallet if they could make a contribution. At the moment, revenue is between 2.8 billion and 3 billion. Isn't it just to use the 1.6 billion for these people? In the most difficult times we have asked them for a sacrifice, and now the money is plotting against the plinths. Instead of saying to Shell and Unilever "here you have the 1,600 million" we can give it to people who really need it. They helped us at the difficult moment; they weren't Shell and Unilever.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u124	I think we're going to talk a little bit more about the position of housing corporations. There are also concerns about the ATAD directive; I am looking at Mr Nijboer. That's what the Secretary of State comes back to when he's being treated. So I think we are really going to take that issue by the horns.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u125	I think this is a super-hopeful contribution. It just makes me happy. It started with all kinds of parties pulling their hands off the dividend tax. That happened about the first week that this cabinet existed. Then the rows were closed. All the group chairmen were flown in. There was a closed front between the group chairmen of the coalition and the cabinet. In the meantime, we are six months further away and these group chairmen do not even show up themselves anymore but send the spokesmen in. One of these spokesmen says: it was really not our measure; it is a compromise and that is why we will vote for it. I think this is very good, because this shows that there is a crack in how this measure is defended by the coalition. That is right and proper. I understand you're going to stand for a compromise, but this compromise isn't right. It costs too much money and it does not seem to have the promise that the Netherlands will really help. Then, also as a coalition partner, you have a duty to be very strict to the cabinet and say: this measure is not going to do what it has promised and is therefore a bad way of spending our money. Does Mr Van Weyenberg agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u126	There's that package. There is also, of course, an assessment of what is effective. I did say that we were not convinced of this, but that I stand for the signature. Moreover, in the previous debate on this measure, you heard my group chairman say exactly the same things, perhaps in other words, as I said today. In that sense, we are consistent, so I would like to leave all the broader reflections to Mr Klaver's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u127	It's all fine, but I see a distinctly different tone. I can clearly see that there is really less standing in front of it. I'm fine with that, and I think it's worth a compliment. Each turn must be used with caution. I appreciate it very much. But now we are talking about the next point. There are a lot of measures in such a government agreement that you may not agree with at all, but which you think is what the other one wanted, and that is what I stand for. But after a six-month debate, or even longer, it appears that this measure is simply not right, that the arguments are wrong, that the information on which you decided was wrong at the negotiating table. Then you must get up in such a coalition and say: we will not accept this because this is not good for the Netherlands; we may have agreed but we are going to look at an alternative use of this money? Well, that's your job as a representative of the people, Mr. Van Weyenberg, instead of saying: we don't want to, but we do, because it's agreed? That's weak, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u128	I see that Mr Klaver's warm words have been slightly modified, but I think the conclusion is that we are going to deal with this law. In fact, it still has to be submitted. We are not convinced, but I think that is not new, because you have heard my group say this for months. Eventually you will always see what is effective, but once again: when you make agreements, you know that there are always things that you are very excited about and things that do not apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u129	That's a nice little bridge to my question. In the coalition agreement are pluses and minuses, also for D66. Suppose after a long time the cabinet takes over the draft pension agreement from the social partners. If the cabinet came to that conclusion, if that bridge were to be struck between the cabinet and the social partners, you would say: yes, but the government agreement states that there must be another system; there are pluses and minuses for us in the government agreement, but we stand for that plus, as we stand for that minus, even if it was not ours?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u130	Firstly, a compliment to Mr Van Rooijen. He has managed to introduce the pension dossier into the debate on dividend taxation; my compliments, that is rhetorical. The ball is now with the Economic and Social Council, and that is where it belongs. That's the advice we're waiting for. I don't ask questions like that. They're really up to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u131	I'm not waiting for a compliment. I need an answer from you. As far as the dividend tax is concerned, you say that it was not our idea, but we have an agreement on everything, and that is what this is about. For you, in your eyes, there is a crown jewel in it, namely that there must be another system. That is a bit in line with the opinion of the ESC, at least from then on. There is, of course, consultation, now and later. What if the cabinet says: we think that the other proposal from the social partners is a very good one? Then you say: we hold the cabinet to the crown jewel from the agreement? There are pluses and minuses in there for you, but do you hold on to this plus? Is that what you're saying? I think that's a normal question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u132	What's going on here is this. The Economic and Social Council is at work. The coalition agreement was linked to previous opinions of the Economic and Social Council. What is in the coalition agreement was not D66's election program. I'm really waiting to see what the SER comes up with. Mr Van Rooijen will understand that, if that's where the ball is, I'd like to see what they're coming up with first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u133	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u134	I understand that, but I am trying to maintain consistency in Mr Van Weyenberg's speech. He says: that dividend tax was not our idea, nor are we for it, but we have signed a total package. This package also includes a different pension system. Suppose now that there is consultation, that should be in our polder...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u135	That's the same question for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u136	What if something else comes out? Do you think that the government agreement with your plus should remain normal? That's a consistent question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u137	Apart from the fact that the Economic and Social Council is now in session. I have said in previous debates that I happen to be doing the pension debates myself, that I am waiting with interest, that I understand that there are also things like stopping work earlier and that we will make a judgment when there is an opinion from the ESC. Moreover, we must wait a long time for this advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u138	Mr Van Weyenberg says that he, or his group, is not convinced of the usefulness of abolishing the dividend tax. He invites the opposition to wait in particular for the debate on the dividend tax bill. That has yet to happen. But what exactly are we holding this debate for? Because if the coalition parties are already so sure that this dividend tax will continue to be "a deal is a deal; we are in favour of our signature," are we going to perform some sort of ritual dance during the debate on the dividend tax bill? Or could D66 consider a rethink and think: no, we shouldn't, because this bill is not good?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u139	It's a bit like earlier questions. The essence of this debate is, of course, to see whether the law is sound, whether the design is correct and whether the law is enforceable. I stand for the appointments I made. Mrs Thieme understands that. Of course, you're going to look even further in such a debate. We are getting a whole package of measures from the coalition agreement. This is not just about this one, it is about dozens of others. The tax spokesmen have, quite rightly, a full autumn and I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u140	But what is important for D66 during the debate on dividend taxation? What are the criteria for such a bill, does D66 want to say yes definitively? Or is there also a chance that it just isn't right and that, with D66, we have to establish that this proposal should be dismissed? Is D66 open to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u141	As I was saying, I stand for the appointments I made, because I am looking at a total package. That total package, or a very large part of it, is coming our way with the Tax Plan. This is all still being worked out technically. That is being worked very hard at the Ministry right now. Performance tests shall be performed. Then we get the advice of the Council of State. Of course we'll all have a good look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u142	Finally, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u143	I am still not convinced that D66 will actually make that substantive assessment during the debate. I believe that it will be a purely technocratic debate and that a legislative proposal will be adopted to abolish the dividend tax and that it will therefore become a ritual dance. I am very sorry, because I know Mr Van Weyenberg as someone who would like to have a debate on the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u144	Sure. I also look forward to the broad substantive debate on the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u145	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u146	Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the occasion, the publication on the ruling with Shell. My group takes it for granted, and I think that this applies to the whole Chamber, namely that the law applies to everyone, whether you are Shell or the baker on the corner. The Secretary of State also confirms this in the written reply. I didn't expect anything else from him either. He also confirmed that for all those agreements in advance, it was no more and no less than the full application of the law and that it was clear in advance. That's important. I think it is also important that the Secretary of State and also the Prime Minister repeat this today. This includes the questions that Mr Omtzigt asked: what can you do if there is such an agreement and the company that also says it openly; how far does the limit reach for directors to talk about it? Generic agreements are confidential, at least for the Tax Administration and for the Cabinet. It is precisely then that it is particularly important that you continue to monitor such a process of rulings very well and independently. We have talked about this a number of times in this Chamber, not to mention the debate on dividend taxation. Two motions were also adopted by Mr Schouten of the Christian Union and Mr D66 to ask the Court of Auditors to re-examine the implementation of the ruling practice. It is precisely because it is confidential that I think it is important that regular independent investigations are carried out. I believe that the Court of Auditors is prepared to do so. I look forward to that investigation. We also asked the Chamber to support the fact that fortunately there are independent scientists on the committee, the independent committee that keeps the ruling practice under review every year. That is also important to me. That committee has recently published a document which was part of the State Secretary's half-yearly report and has said that the Tax Administration is doing well to follow procedures; the tax substantive review is also secured. However, she gave the advice to look at more transparency and better commitment, not to make those rulings public, but to outline the context of the policy much better and to give more insight into it. I think that is an important recommendation. That is why we also supported Mrs Leijten's motion this afternoon to ask the Secretary of State to include this in the review of the ruling policy he announced. So I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State how he is going to proceed with that motion. I would like to know at all how he informs us and how he is shaping the review which he intends to launch on 1 January. Mr. Chairman. One rule is not the other, not even in terms of size. How does the Secretary of State guarantee extra checks-and-balances, e.g. extra expertise, an extra pair of eyes, in the case of large rulings or rulings with a slightly longer duration? How'd that go? Can he say anything about that? Can both the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister address the role of directors in the ruling process? Can they confirm that directors do not interfere in the drafting of rulings? Mr. Chairman. I also have a specific question for the Prime Minister. He sent us a short note today about a wrong answer during last week's Question Time. If the Prime Minister made a mistake, I think it is right that he corrects it before the debate. The question that remains with me is whether the 2014 information he received from the Ministry of Finance concerned an already issued ruling or a ruling that was still in preparation. I hope the Prime Minister can say something about that. Mr. Chairman. Then I also have two specific questions concerning Professor Van de Streek's article. I too, of course, am in the complicated situation, and we are all in it, because I cannot talk here about the content of the confidential briefing, for which I would like to thank the Secretary of State's staff. First of all, in this case there appears to be a ruling that lasts longer than the standard time of four to five years. Can the Secretary of State indicate in a more general sense when to opt for such a longer term or even to give an indefinite ruling? That opening does indeed seem to be offered in the response to questions from the coalition parties. I'd like an explanation. Can the Secretary of State also confirm that, if, during the duration of a ruling, the law applies for four years or changes for an indefinite period of time, the ruling content also changes immediately and that otherwise the ruling will be terminated? Mr President, I would like to end by asking a question about Jersey. That comes along; I saw questions from GroenLinks. That country is now on the grey list of countries that promise to get better. Can the Secretary of State see to it that such a country goes blacklisted, the European blacklist, if there is no recovery, not just on Jersey? Please confirm. The coalition agreement contains one measure which my group considers to be extremely important: the withholding tax on outgoing interest, royalty and dividends, which should put an end to the transit through the Netherlands to countries with a low tax rate or tax havens. Can the Secretary of State indicate that this measure is extremely ambitious in the Tax Plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u147	Thank you very much, Mr Van Weyenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u148	Mr. Chairman. About ten days ago, starting in Trouw and then in other media and in this Chamber, there was a fuss about the construction of A- and B- shares of Shell. That fuss is interesting because that construction has been known for as long as it exists, so since 2004. Investors know, Shell reports on it every year. And the fact that there have been agreements between Shell and the Dutch Tax Administration about this construction is not a particular fact either. We know that there are specific tax arrangements with Shell since 2005. Its scope is also known. Today we are talking about an article by a professor who states that the construction may be in breach of the dividend tax law. That is an interesting observation, but because of Article 67 of the AWR, these tax arrangements are not made public, at least not by the Cabinet. That is unsatisfactory, but the fact is that the deal, depending on how you look at it, has cost the Netherlands about 7 billion or brought in 8.5 billion, thanks to the A-shares, cost or resulted in zero euros as the status quo was confirmed. How does the Prime Minister assess the advantages and disadvantages of the construction known to the public in the light of the social interest? Of course, we still have a big Dutch-British multinational: Unilever. It stands for the same trade-off as Shell in 2005, but solves it differently than Shell did at the time. It intends to offer the shareholders a benefit in the form of a return on capital. This repayment of capital to shareholders is not subject to dividend tax. This method aims to use Unilever until the dividend tax has been abolished. How does the State Secretary assess the amount of benefit in the form of a return on capital compared to the payment of dividends? How does he feel about this? I also ask the Secretary of State if he can confirm that the agreements based on the A- and B-share mechanism and the agreements based on capital-reimbursement payments apply to all companies that would have such a structure reviewed by the Tax Administration in a similar situation. This is not the first and certainly not the last debate on dividend taxation. During the previous plenary debate on dividend taxation, two months ago, my group's contribution to the debate ended with the consideration that the whole package of measures and agreements in the government agreement that benefit citizens and businesses has been weighted and found to be good enough, after which my signature has been signed under the government agreement, including the pluses and the mins. These words are as true as they were two months later. So much for my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u149	I have already noted in my speech that Mr Rutte is becoming more and more alone. And then I had not heard the input of his coalition colleagues from the CDA, so Mr Ometzigt with his critical questions, and from D66, Mr Van Weyenberg. The latter actually says quite clearly: we don't really see anything in it. What about the Christian Union? What is space as far as you're concerned and, more accurately, what do you need? Your foreman argues in Trouw that raw capitalism will be brought to an end. Now let me fully embrace that. What do you need from us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u150	In all the debates on dividend taxation, I have already said what I said about it. I've been quoted more often than I'm quoting myself. And I don't think I can add much more to that either. The Christian Union stands for its signature. We have weighed all the pluses and minuses and we have come to the coalition agreement as we have come to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u151	I have to say that this, 'the pluses and the minuses weighed', is not really a very enthusiastic contribution. We have just heard your coalition colleagues say quite clearly: we don't really see anything in it. Is the Christian Union sensitive to the noises of society? Is the Christian Union sensitive to all those people in the Netherlands who say: this is exactly why we become so cynical of politics; they take good care of the multinationals but not good for the people? Is the Christian Union sensitive to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u152	The Christian Union is a party with both its legs in society. We have a nice government agreement with higher wages for teachers, higher wages for civil servants and with more money for families with children, especially around modale. In the tax measures, beautiful and special things are happening, for example, to reverse the ever-growing gap between one and two earners. We are very enthusiastic about this coalition agreement and we remain so. And our signature's underneath it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u153	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u154	Yeah, finally. I'd like to go back to the melon, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u155	I figured, where's...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u156	...the melon. Yeah, that's what the Christian Union is saying. The melon! Why don't you feel supported? Why don't you feel supported by virtually the entire opposition here? Why do you not feel supported by all those thousands of people in the Netherlands who say: we can spend the 1.6 billion much better? So my specific question to the Christian Union is: what is needed to make sure that melon does not remain a melon? What is needed to invest that 1.6 billion in society rather than in foreign shareholders?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u157	A melon is a melon. This cabinet invests in care, in defence, in education, in development cooperation and in debt reduction. There is an enormous amount of investment in the public sector, of which the SP is such a warm advocate. I certainly feel supported by the colleagues here who see and acknowledge this. So there's no need for temptation from the other side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u158	I wonder how Mr Bruins actually looks back on this part of the negotiations. In the meantime, we know that it was based on a memo that mentioned a number of examples of companies that were wrong and cited a scientific study that had been paid by the main interested party. I am not talking about the signature, but how does Mr Bruins look at that? Does he say that we, as Christian Union, have made this decision on the right grounds and well informed, or does he have a feeling of concern about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u159	I cannot answer that very specifically because I did not participate in these negotiations. Of course, I didn't sit at that main table. I was not the financial spokesman at the time, and I was not sitting at the financial side table or at the tax table. So I don't have a special feeling about that myself. But what the Christian Union thinks about these measures has already been in the newspapers and this has already been debated. There's nothing else I need to do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u160	I get this answer. Let me put the question a little more clearly. Aren't you just fucked in the suit? Aren't you just fooled by a prime minister with a memo in his hand that later turned out not to be a memo? That memo said "this is necessary" and "this is good" but later it turned out to be wrong. And you're the one who keeps feeling that melon coming back. You can explain anywhere: no, this cabinet does all kinds of good things. But people only see the abolition of that dividend tax. We heard Van Weyenberg and he doesn't like it at all. We heard Pieter Ommzigt and he doesn't really like it either. You don't like it either. You're just fucked in the suit! When are you going to say, precisely because of the enormous ambition we have here and the needs in the country, "This agreement has not come about properly. A deal's a deal, but there's no deal here because we're screwed."?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u161	I could only feel as Mr Asscher put it if the Christian Union had changed its mind because of certain information that would not be right and that is not the case, so that qualification does not suit us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u162	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u163	Finally. You're here. You're defending it, aren't you? You'll help keep the information a secret. You allow incorrect information to be provided here. You stand by when it is said that it is good for the climate of establishment, when you know that it is not. You can't completely abstract from that. You're standing right there. Just when you say "it's my signature," you put it. So I think the attitude is very laconic: we don't like it, we don't like it and we don't like it. It is EUR 1.6 billion that needs to be spent better. So I appeal to you, precisely as a conscientious politician. Just say "I once signed my signature and I don't really care if it was on the right grounds," that's too limited. We have an obligation here to spend that 1.6 billion in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u164	I would like to thank Mr Asscher for the compelling appeal. I stand here as a representative of the people and I have to control the government. I do. I have the impression that I have the right information, that I have also been informed in an expert manner in the technical briefing. So, still, other qualifications can't be put on me except that I'm doing my job here as a people's representative should.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u165	Does Mr Bruins consider it acceptable as a representative of the people that Shell received EUR 7 billion from this cabinet? Or not from this cabinet, but from the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u166	As I just said in my contribution, non-payment of dividend tax on B shares cost 7 billion. You can also say that because Shell stayed in the Netherlands, the A-shares yielded 8.5 billion euros. The question I have asked the Prime Minister is how he evaluates the balance, particularly in the light of the social interest. 'Cause that's what's gotta come first here, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u167	If the Christian Union already thinks EUR 1.4 billion is a melon by abolishing the dividend tax, what is €7 billion for Shell for the Christian Union? How big is that melon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u168	That 7 billion is in the 1.4 billion. The fruits go in all directions in the fruit basket. I said what I had to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u169	Finally, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u170	Shell gets 400 million euros every year. The "Dividand"... Now I say "Dividand" again. I feel like I'm in France. It's beautiful in itself, isn't it? But it's just dividend. We all know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u171	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u172	This isn't in the 1.4 billion. That 7 billion is from the past 13 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u173	That 400 million is money that the Netherlands didn't get before, for the merger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u174	Exactly. So what I would very much like to know from Mr Bruins is whether he does not think that if there is so much social fuss about Shell getting so much money and if the Christian Union itself is not in favour of abolishing the dividend tax, then the Christian Union must also make a big effort here, in the Chamber of the Cabinet, that the bottom line is on how such a deal could have taken place. This is also mandatory for the Christian Union, not only for its own ideals and morals, but also for society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u175	Thank you for pointing this out to me by Mrs Thieme. That 400 million did not go to the Netherlands before the merger and did not go to the Netherlands after the merger either. That is, therefore, maintaining the status quo. I think it is important to ask the Prime Minister how he estimates the advantages and disadvantages of this in the light of social interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u176	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u177	No, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u178	I can't get an answer to my question. I ask to what extent the 7 billion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u179	Mrs Thieme, as soon as I allow it to you, I must allow it to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u180	Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u181	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u182	But, Mr. Chairman, I can't get an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u183	I would ask Mr Bruins to answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u184	The answer is that the Christian Union stands for the signature of the coalition agreement, and that is what we are sticking to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u185	I would like to begin by complimenting Mr Bruins. I see him all the time. His speeches are extremely sharp, often with heart and soul.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u186	So much for the compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u187	You and I are great sparring partners. We always do that well together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u188	Those are your words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u189	You always fill me in so beautifully and I am happy with that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u190	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u191	There's one image I just don't understand. It was referred to at the beginning. You're taking a breath because you're sitting with a melon in your throat. Now the opposition is offering you help to get rid of that melon, but you're just hurting yourself. You're self-casing. Why don't you take that excellent hand of the opposition and throw out that melon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u192	I only mentioned that melon once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u193	I think it was a watermelon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u194	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u195	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u196	It was a pineapple!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u197	No, it was a melon. Others are repeating him, you know. I hear here in the Chamber that people have something like, "Don't mess with that melon." I only mentioned him once. Thank you for the excellent hand, the outstretched hand. But the Christian Union is a party that stands for its signature. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u198	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u199	If Mr Bruins sits on the bench as a grandfather in 30 years' time and has to address his grandchildren, who ask why you, as a cabinet, gave away Mr Bruins 1.6 billion tax money, then the answer is actually: I did it because I signed it; that was stupid, but it was no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u200	But everyone remembered the melon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u201	You're going into history, indeed! Thank you, Mr. Bruins. Finally, Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Tonight we are talking about the 1.5 billion tax exemption that Rutte wants to commit annually to support the shareholders of multinationals. Money that could be so incredibly better spent, for example on reducing the burden on SMEs, for example on improving education and safety, for example on abolishing the gift and inheritance tax. The latter costs about the same, 1.5 billion a year, but would be much more just first, because the savings people want to transfer to their loved ones have already been taxed, and secondly would have a huge positive impact on the economy. What this whole dividend debacle shows above all is that with Mark Rutte we have a manager of the e.g. Netherlands at the helm who does not take good care of our interests. We can stare blind on this one point, on another ill-thought-out measure, yet another lie from the Prime Minister, but let's zoom out. Let's look at the track record of eight years Mark Rutte in its entirety. I do that on the basis of three graphs. First of all, the leaked memos "the dividend memos that did not exist at first and were then found to exist' show that the tax and premium pressure under the Rutte Cabinets increased from 35% in 2010, the take-up of Rutte to 38% now, and that this tax and premium pressure will increase to 40% in 2021. If you increase the burden as Rutte has done, it is of course not surprising that the government's share of national income has arrived at an all-time high. Which brings me to graph two. What the cabinet-Den Uyl didn't manage with his nice things for left-wing people in the 1970s, Joop Rutte is now able to do. 39% of national income comes from government. The VVD, you'll have voted for it. You'd have thought there'd be a smaller government and more room for entrepreneurs. It's not the case. The Rutte effect is the third graph I want to show. Because all these developments result in a structurally lagging economy. Compared to all other countries in the Western world, the Netherlands is doing relatively badly. How do you manage the Dutch economy completely? Well, that's it. With Rutte's economic idiot at the helm, the Netherlands gets completely off track. The Cabinets have caused structural, profound damage to our economy, which means that we are now far behind the rest of the Western world. The Dutch still have less to spend than in 2010, when Rutte started. Mr. Chairman. There seems to have been a unified collaboration between the VVD and the NPO. Some kind of devil pact: the VVD keeps voters poor, the NPO keeps them stupid. Many Dutch voters have still been fooled for years, also against their own interests over and over again. FvD proposes to use the 1.5 billion, the exemption, which apparently has budgetary coverage, to abolish the inheritance tax. The abolition of inheritance tax also costs 1.5 billion, but directly benefits the Dutch economy. It is an ideal way to compensate the slaughter that Rutte has caused on the disposable income, because that is it, directly and to give the hard-working middle class space. It also stimulates company succession in family businesses and complements the disposable income of the new generation, which sees its pension reserves shrink. Moreover, the Tax Administration is lagging behind for many years in handling the inheritance tax returns, because of the mess Eric Wiebes of the VVD has caused there. We are also solving this problem by greatly simplifying the tax system and by not having to register these inheritance and gift taxes in the way we should now. So tonight I will make an urgent appeal to all VVD voters. Just take another look at the hard numbers. You can find everything on our website. By means of figures and sources, we show this again. The economy isn't doing well. Purchasing power isn't doing well. You know this, and you know that the VVD tells a beautiful story that simply doesn't add up. Choose your interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u203	Thank you. This was the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u204	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u205	Mr. Chairman. I'll answer a few general questions in a moment. The State Secretary will then address a number of questions that have been asked about how the rulings work, the ruling practice, determination agreements. He will answer a number of technical questions concerning the dividend tax and a number of other specific tax questions. I tried to cluster my answers, but they didn't, because it's a little ripe and green mixed up. So I'm just gonna pass the answers I have here. To begin with, I come to the question about the 2014 memo that I wrote to the Chamber today. Mr Van Weyenberg's question was whether this agreement was in the process of being drawn up or whether it had already been adopted. It's an existing settlement agreement that's the subject of that memo. That's what I wrote in the letter. Reference was made to "one in a period prior to that', i.e. for 2014, "security given by the Tax Administration on the tax consequences of a given company structure'. That's a quote from the letter. It was therefore an existing adoption agreement in 2014. Mr Asscher asked: should you not have an independent inquiry into the abolition of the dividend tax? My feeling is that the academic debate is taking place quite lively at the moment and that science is not really waiting for the State to do so. In this respect, I think that we are gradually beginning to gather a whole body of opinions on the advantages and disadvantages of abolishing the dividend tax. I would also like to draw attention to the hearing that has been held. Mr Asscher said a few times in the debate that there is no professor who supports the abolition of the dividend tax. That's not right. I refer, for example, to Mr Bellingwout and Mr Van den Hurk, respectively, from VU in Amsterdam and Maastricht University. They were both part of that hearing. They were both very critical of the current dividend tax and a strong supporter of abolishing it. There was also Mr Smit of the University of Tilburg, for example. In particular, it discussed the European law on the sustainability of the current dividend tax, as he sees it. Mr Garretsen of the University of Groningen, who criticized both the abolition of the dividend tax and the hearing, said that, given the current form of the dividend tax, problems could arise in practice. So it was in between. There was also Mr Van de Streek, whom we come across in the Trouw article and who, of course, is very critical of the abolition. So it is not as Mr Asscher said, namely that only VNO was enthusiastic about it. There were also: VNO, Euronext, Akzo. Of course they were all happy, but there were also professors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u206	There were indeed a number of people who are partly professor, partly consultant at Pricewaterhouse and at Deloitte, to be precise. They also honestly indicated that at the start of their contribution to the hearing. But the first time we talked about this, I asked the Prime Minister: can you call me three economists who think this is a sensible proposal? Then the Prime Minister said no. Two weeks later, we had a follow-up debate. Then he found three. One of these three is an advisor to multinationals. Another source is a Swedish study which says: you could reduce the rate of dividend tax. The third was a study by Poterba and Summers. That's what I've heard so far. My question to the Prime Minister is: does he know what year the study is which should ultimately provide the best scientific basis for abolishing the dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u207	My point was quite another, quite frankly, namely that Mr Asscher is just claiming that there is no professor to be found. Of course, he is right to look at where these people work and what their backgrounds are. Of course, you have to consider all of that. I agree. Fortunately, we have a system in the Netherlands in which professors increasingly want to do the same; that is cabinet policy of several Cabinets that have ruled in recent times are trying to connect with civil society organisations and companies. There they try to do their work on the basis of academic freedom and the criteria of academic research. My point is that Mr Asscher is far too short, and that is my sincere opinion when he says: there is no professor to be found in the Netherlands. That's what he literally said. Now that I have mentioned some, I am so curious about his reaction, and then he comes up with the remark: Rutte mentioned an investigation from the beginning of this century; is that so strong? That wasn't my question. Let him answer my question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u208	I have rarely seen as much scientific consensus on a proposal as this. In September, a symposium will be organised from the scientific point of view. Mr Rutte is invited as a keynote speaker. Because science agrees: it's an idiotic proposal. And so far, the cabinet has cited one study, which indeed states that the dividend tax may not be such a good idea. I asked Mr Rutte when the study was due, because he did not say that in November. He doesn't know when that study is based on his policy. That study is from 1984. Then this guy just went to school. Then there was the Berlin Wall. That's when Thatcher was in power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u209	I studied in 1984.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u210	You went to college in 1984?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u211	Yeah, it took me a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u212	Young learned. But, Mr. Chairman, that shows how crazy it is. After long searching, compliment for all civil servants, one scientific study has been found criticizing the dividend tax. That's 20 years before the United States started lowering her, which was used as an argument. There is no independent scientific research to support this measure. Yes, there have been two professors, also consultants from multinationals, who said: we are fine with it. But the question is serious: if you spend 1.6 billion, which you can also spend on other things, also on other aspects of business, then there must be a scientific basis that is more than a 1984 study.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u213	I have seen Mr Asscher stronger. He taught me to listen sharp. He brought the melon back a few times. He does that very well. He hears something like that, and then he repeats it four times. I learn that from him; he grows in that role. In the first term I heard him say that there is no professor in the Netherlands. Next, I come with two professors who are positive and two professors who at least say that there are advantages and disadvantages. Can't he just admit that he's been talking nonsense in the first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u214	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u215	This is Mark Rutte when he gets annoyed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u216	No, not at all. I like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u217	Then he will say meta: I have heard Mr Asscher stronger. We know that. Debattechnically always very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u218	Thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u219	But this Prime Minister does have a problem. That dividend tax is a measure that is not supported by science, not by the Central Planning Office, not by the Treasury officials, not by the MPs sitting here except those who say they have signed it, not by society and not by SMEs. And if this Prime Minister continues to argue "haha, the majority does support me" in an arrogant manner, then he has a huge problem. Then it's just not gonna happen. It would do much more justice to the gravity of this debate, and it is a question of EUR 1.6 billion from the Dutch if he were to say: indeed, I am providing a scientific study that is independent, so not paid by Shell, which shows that this is sensible. I am not asking for a debate review here. I won't give him a debate review either. I'm asking him to take this problem seriously for once, which he caused himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u220	Again; let's stick to the facts. I have seen Mr Asscher debate this evening and I have heard him say that there is no professor who supports it. So there are. And then I find it a little weak if he doesn't admit it. I'm not annoyed about that; not at all. I think it is a very nice debate, and I think Mr Asscher does, and I predict that we will probably have a few more times this year. But I'd like to tell him that fact anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u221	I've also been to the round table. Indeed, there were a number of people who were more positive, especially those from Deloitte and KPMG, who had a connection with these multinationals. Does the Prime Minister think it is well-balanced when he says here rather overly 'I have found one or two professors who support it' against the number of people who are critical and say: those multinationals have long since ceased to be the cork on which the economy is thriving? In addition, there has been a decline in employment. Had Philips in the nineties, in 1996 I don't know if the minister was still studying; he took a long time...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u222	I was just finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u223	Then you were just finished? About ten years. Then there were 45,000 people working and now there are about 10,000. Is the Minister also receptive to critical notes from other professors, who, in large numbers, do not fully share the Minister's positive attitude?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u224	Sure. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u225	What's the Prime Minister doing with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u226	All this is, of course, also included in the preparation for the law that we are going to write. You're always trying to get to know that. I said at the beginning of my reply to Mr Asscher that there is a lively academic debate going on in the Netherlands on this subject. I understand from the answer just now that there will also be a whole congress in September. So you can see that there is great interest in discussing the pros and cons of this. So my answer to Mr Azarkan's question is: sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u227	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u228	Does this mean that if we have that "living debate" together, those arguments will be exchanged and the consensus ultimately is that this is mostly a bad idea, the Prime Minister is prepared to withdraw it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u229	These are all like-dan questions. This cabinet is convinced of this measure, but the question raised by Mr Asscher, which I understand echoes Mr Azarkan, is: is this cabinet also open to the noises of society? Then I say: yes, of course we are listening to the various discussions and we will involve them all in the drafting of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u230	What do the Prime Minister consider to be the benefits of this intended measure? He'll have found two people to support it. Why don't you explain that to me? We're in the room here. We have great doubts. Tell us. What's it gonna get us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u231	This cabinet is taking this measure because we are currently faced with a situation in which the Netherlands is levying dividend tax while in some other countries, particularly of course in the United Kingdom, this is not happening. That has two effects. By the way, this has a direct impact on companies that are affected by this. Indeed, companies that are affected will be faced with an average lower overall group value, because the share in the country by which dividends tax is levied, where those shares are held, is likely to be lower. That will have its effect and give a turn on the total value of that company. At a time when capital is cheap, interest rates are low and companies are sensitive to takeovers, this is a relevant fact. We were all on trial here last year when Unilever threatened to be taken over by Kraft Heinz. There were also violent reactions when the same threatened Akzo. Mr Buma said at his congress: I would rather take action by taking a measure rather than standing at that factory gate with red hoops. I'll repeat that to him. That is what is happening when it comes to companies that have to do with that stock situation that is different in two countries, in this case especially in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. At the same time, we know that there are Brexit companies that are considering: where are we going? They look at the overall investment climate in such a country. The Netherlands scores well on that. Think of the city where Mr Baudet lives, Amsterdam, but also of the regions around Eindhoven and Amersfoort, the Randstad and the regions around Zwolle and Maastricht. These are all regions where people like to live and start businesses. But it's also because this is a free country. Children can ride their bikes to school here. It's safe here. But, of course, people also look at the whole fiscal environment. That is taken into account. And then we know, also from the conversations we're having with companies, that this is an element. They say, "Hey, listen, in the end, I have to consider whether I'm staying in the UK or leaving." Why is that so important? That is so important because Mrs Lodders said that the headquarters not only provide direct employment, but also provide a lot of supply employment, even at the lower level, from the door to indeed the taxi driver, the people who lubricate the sandwiches and so on. In view of the large companies that are in the process of making a choice, with those companies that may want to come here, you have to ask yourself as a cabinet what to do to make the whole mix as good as possible. That's what we tried to do with the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u232	I hear the Prime Minister talking about the locational climate. In general terms, most people will agree that the location climate in this country should be good. But if the guiding principle of his policy had been to make the location climate as good as possible, then a very large part of the measures taken by this cabinet would be completely incomprehensible. Take Dow Chemical. This is located in Zeeland and provides 2,000 jobs. That just goes away from the Netherlands because of the crazy measures this cabinet wants to take to free the Netherlands from gas in the context of that whole crazy energy transition and so on. Think also of all kinds of other measures: raising taxes, increasing VAT and you name it all. These are all measures which do not improve the locational environment, which do not improve purchasing power and which do not improve the economy. Of course when you say "location climate," a lot of people think for a moment: oh, this is a good story. But if you look at the whole policy, you can see that it's just not right. There's something else going on here. A deal has been made that might have to do with just closing that gas tap in Groningen, or perhaps with other things that have to do with the lobby in Brussels. But the location climate point is taken down by all economists. It's not believed. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u233	There is no such connection with the gas in Groningen; let me say that first in order to get that out of the world. Dow Chemical in Terneuzen is one of the largest branches of that beautiful company in the world. We're very proud of that. We have very intensive contacts with it. What you see in general with American companies in Europe is that they are concerned that European countries are going to set individually high CO targets. Then you talk to these companies and reassure them that we do not and that what we do is always a European framework, including in our coalition agreement. The 49% and 55% ambition are all based on a shared objective by the European Union or at least by this part of the European Union, so that they do not receive a competitive disadvantage. It is precisely the companies that are able to make a positive contribution to the transition that is needed because of their innovative capacity. So I do not share that concern with Mr Baudet as he says here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u234	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u235	Yes, but this is the concern expressed by that company itself. If they can no longer use gas, they cannot generate enough heat to produce their products and so on. You chase Zeeland's largest employer, Dow Chemical, out of the country while you come here with nice talk about the location climate. It's totally unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u236	I didn't hear a question. I am fighting the argument, because the content is not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u237	I would like to go through Mr Asscher's point of view on the research which is the basis of the intention to abolish the dividend tax. We now know, after the debate on 25 April, that there was a piece written by Mr Wiebes. We also know by now that the only scientific source of that report, of that piece by Mr Wiebes, was Shell. That's what three tons was paid for. Did Mr Rutte, when he put that piece in his hand, learn from Mr Pechtold that it was not on the table, but that Mr Rutte had it in his hand went past his future coalition partners, then formation partners, informed them about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u238	The confidentiality of the formation process forbids me to go into that further. As far as specific research is concerned, I refer Mrs Marijnissen to the letter from the Minister for Education, Culture and Science of 22 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u239	I can easily imagine that if I were a coalition partner of Mr Rutte and we had those talks in the formation, if that information had been shared in that way and I would now hear that the supposedly scientific basis for abolishing the dividend tax Shell itself was a little bit cheated on me. Can you possibly imagine that your coalition partners feel betrayed in that respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u240	Mrs Marijnissen makes a bit of a caricature of how that goes and how it went, but I cannot say anything else about it because this really affects the confidentiality of the formation process. The same goes for Mr Klaver van GroenLinks' question, who asked which politicians were involved in the formation of the company in the possible abolition of the dividend tax. This also affects the confidentiality of the formation process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u241	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u242	Finally. I have now heard the contribution of the CDA, with very critical questions. We have heard the spokesperson of D66, who clearly said: we are not enthusiastic about it. Just in the suspension I turned on the television and I saw the foreman of the Christian Union literally saying: if the proposer of this plan, I think you, at least the VVD, want to talk about it again, then please. Mr. Rutte, when are you going to realize that you're on your own?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u243	Political life brings with it, I would like to remind Mrs Marijnissen that she knows it, because she leads a large political party, so I don't have to teach her at all; we can reach out to each other in that, that you do a lot of things that are popular, but that sometimes you also have to do things that are necessary for the country or for your party, but that are not immediately popular. For Mrs Marijnissen, she does so in her party, and I have to do it in my job for the country. These things are necessary, because in the end you have to take responsibility in our jobs for the difficult decisions that are needed in this case to provide jobs, jobs and the future of this beautiful country. This is part of a package of other measures. It's not isolated. This means that this measure is in the coalition agreement and that the coalition intends to maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u244	First of all, a small correction: I did not ask for the formation. I assume that Mr Rutte will deal with my questions further later, but I did not ask any questions relating to the formation. I do have a question about rulings. This is a general question, so the Prime Minister should not be alarmed. Very specific questions will be put to the Secretary of State. However, in general terms, have I understood correctly that a ruling is intended to obtain advance security for companies and that special arrangements are not therefore made to avoid tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u245	I think it is true, but I am going to ask you to answer this question with Mr Snel, because it is a question of definitions. Mr Klaver will probably come up with follow-up questions, and Mr Snel is sitting here, so I really think he should do that to him. I haven't prepared for that part of the answer right now, so I don't have that here either. These are very precise wordings, and Mr Klaver is of the very precise wordings. So I am not going to say yes to that, simply because I do not have that particular expertise here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u246	I almost have to stop laughing. We have been here since the beginning of this cabinet on dividend taxation. I also know Mr Rutte as someone who thinks the details and the precise wordings are important. And now he says he doesn't know this. This is elementary school work, I'd like to say, when it comes to what you need to know about rulings. It's a very simple question. When establishing those tax rulings, is it the intention to give advance certainty, and therefore not to make tailor-made arrangements to avoid the tax? I ask that question to the Prime Minister, and I actually want an answer from him. This is relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u247	I think that's right. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. It's true. Yeah, sure. But I want to be sure. Mr Klaver uses a very precise wording and I want to make sure that that definition is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u248	I appreciate that. I see you're checking with the Secretary of State, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u249	Mr. Clover, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u250	There's a piece. That's Shell's lawyers. They sent it to the SEC. On page 2 of that piece they indicate that they have made agreements with the Dutch Tax Administration for tax reasons and have rigged structures to ensure that they are no longer guilty of that dividend tax. That shows that the goal wasn't to get pre-security. It shows that they had a very clear objective with this agreement, namely to ensure that those B shareholders would not be subject to dividends in the Netherlands. How is that consistent with the general line we know when it comes to drafting rulings?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u251	This goes back to the beginning of the debate. Mr Klaver now refers directly to the situation in one specific company. We cannot say anything about this ex article 67 of the General Law on state taxes, even if such a company itself or through lawyers acting on behalf of that company speaks about it. Mr Snel explained that very quickly at the beginning of the debate. I can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u252	We're not going to repeat the order debate, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u253	I don't want an order debate. This is about content, and this is pretty important. I don't know if you have access to the Internet, but this is just online. Anyone can read this. Everyone. I'm asking you not to respond to any appointments made with the IRS. I ask you to respond to this, and I ask you if a company, if it says so, is eligible to make agreements with the IRS. That's certainly relevant, because I'm trying to base myself on the public sources that exist. This cabinet won't say anything about agreements, not even what company it's about. This is a public resource. He's known to the cabinet. During the first period, Mr Omtzigt also referred to it. I would point out that here they indicate that they did have a purpose, namely to ensure that no dividend tax would be payable. That doesn't fit within the agreed line, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u254	Previously, reference was also made to statements by Shell Nederland's president, who, in the eyes of those MPs who quoted the statements, seemed to be opening up the exact situation with Shell's tax rotations. Mr Snel responded quickly to this at the beginning of the debate. He has said that in such a case we cannot accept Article 67.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u255	It's gonna be a repeat, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u256	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u257	Actually, I'd like to suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u258	In my first term and in the debate on order, I predicted that it would be a repetition of moves. And yet it has to be done, because it does affect the information position of the Chamber. This is about public resources. I am not asking you to go into the knowledge this cabinet has about a ruling that would be there. I am simply asking, in general terms, what is the situation, and even the Prime Minister does not want to go into that. And I get that, because the minute he does, he's gonna get in trouble. Then we shall see that what has been agreed here is not quite right, to say it very politely. I'm really asking the Prime Minister to stand up for it. He says: you sometimes have to make difficult decisions in politics. That's right. Sometimes you have to do things that aren't easy to explain. But explain it to me. And then you just go into this kind of public resource.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u259	I was just referring to another public source, namely the ruling of the President-Director of Shell Netherlands. The Secretary of State said at the beginning of the order debate that led to a vote, that even if that happens, if a company or individual taxpayer chooses to disclose its own tax information, the Tax Administration or the politically responsible principal does not yet have the room to speak about it. That simply cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u260	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u261	Another question has been asked, a question that does not so much touch on this debate, on an issue that is not on the agenda today. I understand the Chamber is still looking for another place to talk about that. It concerns the processing of the WOB request about Unilever's headquarters. This is a WOB request from NRC Handelsblad and sees all documents relating to the attempt to get Unilever's head office to the Netherlands. Mrs Marijnissen asked for that. There are a few things I can say about it in a general sense. If there are follow-up questions, then my information stops and I really have to ask to discuss it further in the debate in which it is discussed. I believe that this consultation, however the Chamber organises it, has already been added. A few things I can say about it now. About the process, documents have been made public by Economic Affairs and Climate, because that information is not company confidential. How do you deal with the lobby to get such a company to the Netherlands? There is no disproportionate disadvantage. These pieces give an idea of how Economic Affairs is fulfilling its task of highlighting the advantages of the Dutch locational climate among companies. At the same time, Economic Affairs has had to eliminate the content of the information and documents have been refused on the basis of company confidentiality and/or disproportionate disadvantage. Also included is the prayerbook itself. A prayerbook provides a current and factual overview of our locational climate. But, as I mention, it doesn't contain any offers and commitments. What makes a prayer book unique is that it was attributed to the company. It addresses the climatic factors which are important for that particular company in order to reach a decision. Thus, the information in such a bidbook is also company confidential and cannot be disclosed. That's just a service point in this debate. Furthermore, I think it is right that this point should return to a discussion, no matter how the Chamber organized it. Mrs Marijnissen also asked about the telephone conversations that the Secretary of State and I had about the WOB request. That was also the issue in April. I said everything about this in the February debate in the Chamber. I have nothing new to add to that. That, Mr President, answers the questions I have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u262	I understand the Prime Minister wants to be ready as soon as possible. He's kind of on his own here. We have already noted that the coalition is slowly starting to withdraw and detach itself from this proposal. I asked another question in relation to Rule 67. There's a middle ground between "we don't tell anything" and things that can be shared. I have specifically mentioned the following, and we have also asked a number of written questions about this. At what times have directors been aware of the establishment of such a ruling? That is information that is not company-confidential and is not about the interest of the State. It may be very clumsy for politicians, but that's no reason not to tell. That is why I would like to know which politicians were involved in this whole process and when there were contacts with these companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u263	I have just told you about the division of roles: the Secretary of State will soon explain to politicians how rulings work. That's exactly what we're talking about. What can a Secretary of State do? Can other ministers be informed? Can you or can you not intervene in such a process? That is what the Secretary of State will say in his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u264	I already know that answer. Stand-up policy is being read out about how things are going. I'm talking about this particular case. I'd like to know when there were any contacts. In Question Time, Mr Asscher asked: have you taken note of this? The answer was: no, never, that is not the case. Then we got another note stating that that had been the case, that he had been informed. I would like to know what time politicians were aware of these specific rulings, which we are now debating. That can be shared. I wonder what information and contacts there have been between the Shell Summit, in this case, and members of the Cabinet. That information is not business sensitive and does not affect the interest of the State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u265	That's actually the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u266	It affects the importance of politicians. You can just answer that. There is no obstacle to that in Article 67.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u267	That's a repeat of the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u268	Yeah, well, okay. Mr Klaver asks for an article in Trouw about one specific company, and everything I say about it is covered by Article 67. I can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u269	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u270	This is bullshit, and that's what I said there. If you don't want to share that with the Chamber, you should say, "I don't want to share it." But Article 67 does not prohibit it. That'll give the room. It calls for a balance to be struck between, on the one hand, the public interest that you must serve, with openness and transparency about the information, and the interest of the taxpayer, which you should rightly guarantee. I'm doing a hand-picking here, too. I'm not asking for everything. I am talking about the position of politicians, members of the cabinet, which we must control. And Article 67 does indeed provide the room to share that with the Chamber. Could the Prime Minister at least have the courtesy not to hide behind an article and say: that is not allowed? Could he have the courage to say, "I won't do it?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u271	I stand by my answer, because Mr Klaver refers here to a matter which concerns one specific company, which we cannot discuss under Article 67. It's just not working.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u272	I had asked the Prime Minister to deal with the state aid risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u273	That's what Mr. Snel is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u274	The second is that the Prime Minister says that sometimes you have to do unpopular things in the context of the national interest. That is true, but does the Prime Minister agree with me that the national interest is not the same as the VVD interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u275	Mr Snel replied to Mr Asscher's question, and on...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u276	This is a question the Prime Minister should be able to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u277	It was a serious question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u278	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u279	What do you think the answer is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u280	I am looking forward to hearing from you, because you are defending the interests of the country and there is no basis for that. We get the impression that it is mainly the VVD interest that has prevailed here. I am therefore very curious to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u281	I believe that my own group is not convinced that I represent only the VVD interest in my job. They'd like to see more of that. That's out of the question, really. Mr Asscher knows how to do this job; he has seen me work for five years and I have seen him. I did not accuse him of placing the Labour Party at the centre of his efforts. Of course, you hope to get rid of it reasonably in elections. You're hoping people appreciate you taking responsibility. But I have never made any decisions here on the country's interest and put the party interest above the national interest. That's unthinkable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u282	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u283	I can now see the irritation increasing. The question was...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u284	No, the emotion is increasing and not the irritation. Not at all, because the question may be asked. It's absolutely not an irritation. But emotion, because it affects a belief, a belief. I think Mr Asscher and I share this. That is why I am disappointed with that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u285	Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u286	Yeah, but the word...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u287	It is exactly as the Prime Minister says: it affects a belief. In fact, he says in so many words that his group does not like it either. Dijkhoff called it a gamble. All the other coalition partners have said here: we did not have to. It's touching a belief. That is why I am giving sincere advice. I know that this Prime Minister is working day and night for the national interest, but here he has lost it. This is not in the national interest. It is in the national interest to take this measure back and do something sensible with the 1.6 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u288	My comment about my group and the country's interest and the party's interest did not specifically touch on this measure. It generally touched on the fact that in the almost eight years that I am now Prime Minister, there have often been moments when my own group said: "Oh, you know, there's also a VVD. Yeah, I know, but I'm here now for the sake of the country. And of course I know where I come from and I am in that tradition, but I now have the public interest to defend. In that sense, I meant it. It was not specifically about this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u289	The Prime Minister is not a member of the group, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u290	No, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u291	Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u292	That would be very strange under state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u293	I had asked another question to the Prime Minister about his response last week at Nieuwsuur. The Prime Minister was asked whether the deal with Shell had cost society 7.5 billion. The Prime Minister's reaction to this was: I do not mean that. How is that possible? How can the Prime Minister, on the one hand, argue that he had no knowledge of it and was not aware of it, while he gave the firm answer at Newsuur: no, that did not cost society 7.5 billion? How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u294	Now it's like I gave a whole answer there. I was confronted with it and I said there: boys, in general we know that the Tax Administration does not give a gift in this country and that the Tax Administration applies the law. At least I said that from that inspiration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u295	Well, I'm surprised. There is a great piece in Trouw about a theme that has been discussed for so long and so often. And it's not about a sloppy amount. No, it's about 7.5 billion. And then the Prime Minister's first reaction is obviously not: I'm going to investigate what's going on; I want to get to the bottom of this. No, the Prime Minister's first reaction to the question of Nieuwsuur whether this cost society 7.5 billion was: no, I don't mean that. How is that even possible if you say at the same time that you were not exactly aware of the arrangements?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u296	For the reason I just gave. The Dutch Tax Office doesn't give presents. That's the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u297	So this is exactly the heart of this debate. You're arguing that the Tax Administration is enforcing the law. At the same time, we have an article in Trouw. We have also had a secret briefing in which all kinds of information is shared that we advocate should be publicly available. It is precisely this openness that is needed in this debate, Prime Minister Rutte, and that is what you are diving for over and over again, every question that comes to mind. When you walked to the Chamber this afternoon, I also saw you almost emotionally arguing that this subject is always coming back and that you find it so annoying. I'll make a call. You can do something about that! Then start by giving openness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u298	I was asked whether I was entirely satisfied with the imagery surrounding this theme. I thought the truth was true by saying that it could still gain strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u299	Tax officials have the responsibility to apply the law. They do that to the best of their consciences. I think they did the same thing to the Starbucks deal. Well, research by the European Union shows... No, no, before you slide it off: the question is just for you, you can just stand. Now the European Union has found that the Dutch Tax Administration has applied it wrongly and that these 20 million to 30 million have to be repaid, if not yet done. Then who's gonna pay that money back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u300	I will answer those questions quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u301	Is this something the Prime Minister doesn't know? I am not so much concerned with technical implementation. It is the responsibility of the Prime Minister of the government for this. I'll make a move. I suspect that these 20 million to 30 million euros will not be paid by these companies, but that the Netherlands itself will stand up for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u302	If we have a debate with more than one ruler, we will make a division of labour. Then we look at who deals with certain themes and who deals with other themes. Then, of course, you will deepen yourself in the themes that have been assigned to you. Just in the suspension we sat together for a while and then worked separately in our own teams to deepen and search for the answers to the questions that have been asked as best as possible. This question is in Mr Snel's set.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u303	I will get an answer to that later. I would like to conclude by saying that if the European Union's subsequent investigation shows that there has been an error here, then my question is whether Shell will still pay the 7.5 billion. Or is that just the Dutch taxpayer and are you, as Prime Minister, I say that on your behalf, Mr President, just doing things with taxpayers' money that are simply not sensible afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u304	There are two reasons for this and a question whose answer is contrary to Article 67 of the General Law on State Taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u305	Mr. Klaver, we're not gonna keep running in circles, because a repeat of the same questions, one more time, one more time...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u306	I have another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u307	A new question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u308	I have a new question on the same subject, but it's a new question. In 2015, reference was made to this issue and there was a public discussion about a ruling with Starbucks. Why was I not already asked in my contribution at that time to breach Article 67 of the AWR?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u309	That question will be answered quickly by Mr Snel. I just explained at my introduction how we split things up. I explained at the time what subjects the Secretary of State was going to do. One of these issues is the subject of rulings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u310	I am not asking for a ruling here, but for public access. This is, above all, a general issue and a political debate. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister to do this. I also have all kinds of technical questions and they really end up with the Secretary of State. This is a crucial question. The Prime Minister makes the plea: I cannot but say nothing about this and I cannot say that this is Shell's; Article 67. In 2015, however, the cabinet decided to give this to the public on the basis of the same article of law. Why couldn't it be then? Why can't it be now? That is a political question and I ask it to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u311	The Secretary of State also answers only political questions, as do I. In the division of roles he will answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u312	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u313	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Okay, I'll finish when we get to the Secretary of State. I find this amazing. This Prime Minister is the only one who believes that the dividend tax really needs to be introduced. His coalition partners already think...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u314	It must be abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u315	Yes, it must be abolished. You're right about that. The coalition partners are already pulling their hands off it. He's in here alone. In Question Time, he did not really want to answer it. Even now, he tries to move it to the Secretary of State as soon as possible. This dividend tax belongs to you, Mr. Rutte. If we ask you about this, which are of a general nature and not technical, then I hope you can just answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u316	Again, in a debate you create a division of tasks and a division of roles. This question will be answered quickly by Mr Snel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u317	Does the Prime Minister understand the social unrest about the alleged deal with Shell of EUR 7 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u318	There's no answer to that question. That's kind of like asking, when did you stop hitting your wife? Answer: never. So I can't answer it. If I do, I will end up in an article 67 discussion, so I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u319	That woman comes back every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u320	Does the Prime Minister recognise that social unrest has arisen from the coverage of the Shell deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u321	Again, I can't go into the publicity about one particular company. Everything I say about it contradicts Rule 67.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u322	Acknowledged, does the Prime Minister see that social unrest has arisen due to the coverage of the Shell deal of EUR 7 billion? I just want an answer to that: yes or no. Does the Prime Minister see social unrest on this subject? You can just answer that. Or do you deny that and have you just closed your eyes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u323	Again, this question refers to a specific company about which there is publicity. I can't answer it, because I'd be in violation of the tax law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u324	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u325	How will the Prime Minister remove the social unrest that has been caused and which everyone in this Chamber, the front page of the Volkskrant and all the main editorial comments talk about? How is the Prime Minister going to remove the social unrest?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u326	In my office, Mrs Thieme will experience this once in a while when she is a minister, sometimes you have a situation where you cannot say everything, in which you have given the laws and regulations to limit you. This is one of those cases, and I'm sticking to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u327	You just said it was your last question. It's really getting too much; it's really gonna be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u328	I'll sit down afterwards, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u329	You haven't been interrupting much, so you may ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u330	I'd love to. Does the Prime Minister think it is his job to take social unrest seriously and do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u331	In general terms: yes. But here we are asking for a specific situation. Further to that, I am in breach of the laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u332	The Prime Minister has offered us a briefing, which we had this afternoon. Has the Prime Minister himself been able to take note of the content of that briefing, or has only the Members of Parliament been given this knowledge?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u333	That briefing this afternoon was confidential, of course. I know in general what has been discussed; not the whole hour and a half, but in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u334	After all the commotion, has the Prime Minister tried to ensure, to the greatest extent possible, that the rulings we are talking about are within the laws and regulations in force?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u335	It refers to a specific company and that is really contrary to Article 67. But if there are reports in the general sense, I shall let it be abstracted, and it is important to establish whether the State has acted correctly, then we do so from General Affairs, and so do I as Prime Minister. But I cannot go into this particular case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u336	So if, in general terms, there is a specific case, including cases such as state aid, we can assume that the Prime Minister will ensure, and one more time, that has acted within the laws and regulations in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u337	Let me answer in general how I do that. I think that my job as Prime Minister is to deal with matters in the area of colleagues. Very topical is the issue in Limburg that Arie Slob is dealing with, a very complex issue in education. We have contacts about that. You're talking about it. You're trying to spar with me. First of all, of course, his own officials do that, which are excellent and work on it day and night, but I am therefore available. General Affairs is also trying to follow it as closely as possible. I'll just give you an example of how that works, but I can't go into this particular case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u338	Thank you. Now I'm going to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u339	Thank you, Mr President. I brought some folders. Blue folders I usually have to sort out the answers a little bit. There have been quite a few questions about the content, but let me start with something that has been asked by a number of speakers. Mrs Lodders, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Weyenberg and others asked whether all those rulings are within the law, the policy and the rules and why giving advance assurance is so important. I think that is the essence of the debate: as Secretary of State, I can say that I am confident that all rulings are always issued within the law, policy and case law. It was given by law to the inspector to commit an attack. Therefore, in the case of a ruling or a determination agreement, there is no difference between the tax outcome on the one hand if the inspector informs in advance what the tax treatment is as a fact complex as it is, and on the other hand the tax outcome as the inspector would do afterwards. There's no difference. So there is always the same tax outcome of a factual complex, whether it is promised in advance or communicated afterwards. I cannot repeat this often enough, because time and time again the picture seems to arise that the issuing of a settlement agreement is a result of a negotiation process. That image is wrong, and I want to correct that right from the start. Rulings are not only good for taxpayers, but also for the Tax Administration. They are important for taxpayers who can be people, they can be companies because they give certainty, and security in advance about tax treatment is important for many investors and companies. Rulings are also good for the Tax Administration, because the Tax Administration then ends up in fewer disputes. By agreeing in advance what laws and regulations are like, you have less of a fight about it afterwards. For these reasons, rulings and determination agreements contribute to a favourable locational environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u340	Did you finish with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u341	No. I'll move on. We've been asked how it's done now. Mr Van der Staaij made a good statement on this and Mr Van Weyenberg also mentioned it. How's that taken care of? Is it all without political interference now? Is it free from political control? Is the application identical in all cases? Does the same complex of facts, regardless of who it asks, receive the same answer? I think there is one very clear answer to that: there is no political interference in the establishment of a settlement agreement. The inspector is responsible, alone, for the imposition of an attack and therefore also for the establishment of a settlement agreement on the front. It thus also ensures that the application is equal in all cases and that no difference can be made between one supplier and the other supplier of the same factual complex. Is there, for example, illegal state aid in some cases? In that case, can State aid be recovered? Is there a tax discount? Some in the room call it a gift. The answer to all these questions is actually very clear: as long as rulings are issued within laws and regulations, existing policies and case law, there can be no tax rebates because you act according to the law, and there can actually be no state aid. I think that these points too are important to acknowledge time and time again. As long as the inspector acts within laws and regulations and follows the law when determining the tax charge, there is therefore no gift to give, regardless of the specific situation that has been discussed a lot today. Mr Omtzigt asked: is it generally possible to request a ruling from the Tax Administration, for example on a specific case such as the existence of a dividend access mechanism? I see Mr Azarkan looking in the eye, but that was Mr Omtzigt's question, which I just repeated. The answer is yes. Anyone with the same factual complex can ask the Tax Administration what the tax outcome of that fact complex is, so also when it comes to a dividend access mechanism. The Tax Administration then applies the law and the tax consequences are for the applicant. So there is no distinction in who is asking. It's about the fact complex the inspector's looking at. But if the law is still unclear, and if there are any questions of law that need to be answered by the Tax Administration, that can also be done, the results will be published in policy decisions as soon as that is clear. The publication of policy decisions has made the policy known to all other taxpayers who would have the same demand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u342	The Secretary of State is here in the house of the highest authority. We have a controlling task. Can the Secretary of State assure us that the ruling with Shell is entirely closed within the laws and regulations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u343	There is a very clear pattern in our answer. The answer is: if you ask for a specific determination agreement with an individual company, I will not say anything about it. In general, I do say that I am confident that all rulings/fixing agreements that are made are within the laws and regulations. I believe that you have an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u344	So we can't control that. In fact, I hear here that the Secretary of State is simply saying: I can tell you that I myself have every confidence that this ruling with Shell has worked out well. This is not how we can carry out the monitoring task. This is not how the Secretary of State can assume his political responsibility, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u345	I didn't say that. I haven't made a single ruling on a determination agreement with an individual company. I said a few words about our weighting at the beginning. We have Article 68 and Article 67. We'll find a balance in that. One of the balance sheets we've been looking for is to give the Chamber the opportunity to be open to all MPs to get an insight into a specific appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u346	Finally, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u347	Finally, I would like to know from this State Secretary whether he sees and acknowledges that social unrest has arisen because of this alleged deal with Shell and whether he feels responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u348	I do not think I can give an answer to that other than that of the Prime Minister. I feel responsible for a lot of things. I certainly feel responsible for the IRS. I feel responsible for the inspector's compliance with laws and regulations when he concludes a settlement agreement or imposes an attack. I do feel the responsibility for the social unrest that may or may not arise over a specific deal. I have also indicated why I am also trying to do something about this in my consideration and in the search for a balance between Article 67 and Article 68. But I can't go any further than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u349	How does a tax inspector weigh in the fact-finding complex if a company that requests it is considering placing its head office in the Netherlands or outside the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u350	I'm not a tax inspector, but I think the answer to that would be "not." A tax inspector gets a fact complex delivered. He then says whether or not it is within existing regulations. He also says: if it is within existing regulations, this is the tax outcome. That's all an inspector can and can do. He will never have to "second-guessen"... to use only bad Dutch... to any reason or cause. But he will be able to simply impose an attack and enter into a settlement agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u351	So if I sum up correctly, the Secretary of State says here that, for example, the fact that a company is considering moving its head office, the size of a company, the influence it has on the number of jobs, should not be taken into account. Whether you have an SME company with two employees or a huge multinational that is considering relocating a head office, that doesn't matter; that doesn't matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u352	This was also the subject of a question from Mr Van Weyenberg. In principle, the answer is "no', because the inspector assesses a complex of facts. I suspect a bit that you say: one rule is not the other; one fixing agreement is not the other. Your question is: are there guarantees when it comes to certain rulings issued above a certain limit or which are more complex than others? There is indeed a whole system at the service to shape that. For example, within the Tax Administration, coordination takes place within a particular technical infrastructure. So for each field there is a network of inspectors who can consult with each other in difficult cases. Moreover, as soon as there is an international aspect to it, a second signature should also be provided for a ruling. That's the four-eyed principle. There's no inspector on the ruling team who can drop that off on his own. In addition, special, specific topics have been invested in an APA/ATR team and these issues have also been mentioned in the APA and ATR decisions. In that case, both the local competent inspector and the processor of the APA/ATR team and the second signature maker shall sign up. Where necessary, the coordination groups in the country will be coordinated and questions of law will be submitted to knowledge groups. One more thing, even in incidental cases, the state's attorney is asked to watch. At the moment when a ruling is fairly easy, an inspector could do something with it. If it gets bigger or has international aspects, then at least there must be a second signature. For example, there is a whole cascade of extra guarantees when it comes to a complex ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u353	Finally, Mr. Azarkan. You're gonna get rid of it? Then I'll go to Mrs. Marijnissen's.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u354	I actually have a brief question for the Secretary of State, which follows on from Mr Omtzig's question and which I have already asked about the possibility of concluding agreements for an indefinite period of time. My question is, in fact, whether the Secretary of State is still in favour of his answers which he sent to us on 8 and 25 June. This raises the specific question of whether rulings have also been concluded for an indefinite period and whether it is true that a determination agreement can be agreed both for an indefinite period and for an indefinite period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u355	That is indeed a question that came up earlier. Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Weyenberg also used to do so. The question was: how long is the duration of a ruling? Mr Omtzigt wanted to know specifically about an ATR. I think it is good to explain at the beginning that there are two different types of rulings. There are rulings issued by the APA/ATR team and there are rulings issued outside this team. Rules issued by the APA/ATR team therefore always have an APA and an ATR decision and have an agreed duration of four to five years in principle. So also for the ATRs, which Mr Omtzigt asked for, in principle they have a fixed term of four to five years. However, this does not mean that by definition all rulings have an agreed maturity. Indeed, rulings may also be issued outside the APA/ATR team. It could be that Mrs Marijnissen would say: Mr President, has Mr Snel, then, not read the Tax Administrative Law Decision? Of course, I've read that. It states that all rulings, independent of whether they should be given in them, include a period for which the ruling applies. But this period does not always have to be expressed in years. As a general rule, for example, where a one-off transaction is considered to be a structural change, it may not be possible for an agreed maturity to be included in the ruling. That limitation is then in his hands, and that is important to realize, the change of law or policy or in the change of facts and circumstances that may occur. At that time, the ruling lapses. The Tax Administration supervises it or does so when determining... Mr President, Mrs Marijnissen can do a bit or... But she is asking about these techniques herself, and I would like to explain that, because I think it is important that you take them too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u356	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u357	And because this may lead to confusion, it may well be that someone finds it unclear or confusing, in the answers to Mrs Leijten's parliamentary questions on this subject, I noted that I thought it was a good suggestion for her to include a maximum period of time in this kind of case in years, i.e. for all determination agreements, and to then lay that down in the Tax Administrative Law Decision. I have therefore already made this commitment towards Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u358	That's good. That's a nice commitment. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his brief College of Tax Law.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In fact, we have asked earlier what is going on with these agreements. What room is in there to shut it down indefinitely? The answer you give to that is all about it. That's all about the hot stuff, and that's why we're putting it on the table tonight. How do you weigh that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u359	I don't care about the hot stuff. I'm trying to explain what's going on and then the reaction is: you need a lot of words to explain what's going on. I can try it with less words, but then there might be some confusion. So I think it's important to try to explain what that's like. So for starters, we have the rulings. These are issued by the APA/ATR teams. We have rulings out there. For APA/ATR decisions, an agreed maturity is set. For the other one there will be many, but not necessarily. In that case, there is therefore another time limit, namely changing facts and circumstances and changing laws and regulations. That's how I explained it once more in the shortest possible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u360	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u361	That if the law amends such agreements, we all understand. But the bad thing here is that it always comes back to this debate, that there is no openness, that there is a great deal of talk being used, that there is a cover-up of language in order to make it clear exactly what is needed here. It is really necessary for that dividend deafening to open and such answers do not help.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u362	Mr. Chairman. I will continue with a number of other questions concerning the review of the ruling practice. In reply to the question whether all rulings, including those outside the team, have a fixed term or not, I indicated to Mrs Leijten that it would be a good idea to do so in future on all agreements. For example, I have promised more things when it comes to reviewing the ruling practice. One question was how things stand with that, whether it is true that the international rulings will be involved in this, Mrs Lodders asked for that and how we are actually going to achieve more transparency. That, I think, is also a central theme of this debate. In my letter of 18 February last, I announced a number of measures on this subject. I have said that it is indeed true that international rulings will be involved, that the review will take place on content, on transparency and on the process of ruling practice and that we want to achieve a further form of central coordination within the ruling team in terms of coordination, because it is important that we take that test. In the area of transparency, I also said that we are looking at whether or not we can achieve a more far-reaching form than we have now chosen. Some examples have been mentioned around Belgium and we have asked external sounding board members to do so so that perhaps we can have this discussion with each other. I do not expect to be here in the autumn, because I am not quite there yet to inform your Chamber about the planning for the revision and the further timetable for implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u363	If I understand correctly, rulings have been issued in the past, or may have been issued, which, if the circumstances do not change and the laws do not change, can be valid for 100 years and that is then a limitation in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u364	Do you want to repeat that question one more time? It's important to hear exactly that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u365	If I understand correctly, it was therefore possible, at least so far, to obtain a ruling that would be valid for 100 years if the law did not change and if the company's circumstances did not change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u366	I don't think I can rule that out in theory, but in all honesty, I think the probability of that happening is almost zero. But in theory, I wouldn't be able to rule that out, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u367	Then I would ask the Secretary of State to take a second look at the answers given earlier, namely that in principle they were all limited to ten years. There really is a gap between that something can just be valid for 100 years or that something is valid for 10 years. That makes a crucial difference. The second is that the Secretary of State has said that if there is a new policy, a policy decision will be taken. That is also a legal obligation. The dividend access mechanism was possible, but I haven't been able to find a policy decision, so I said, where that dividend access mechanism is in. At least the policy is so clear that we have had a very long discussion about an article by Professor Van de Streek, whether or not it is true. So let me put it this way: even for the expert it's not quite clear when to have a dividend access mechanism. Can the Secretary of State explain why this form of ruling, which, contrary to what some other parties may be suggesting here, has been clear for ten years that it existed in a form, has never been put into a policy decision to demonstrate how to use it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u368	That's a good question. Why didn't that ever happen? I suppose there'll be a good reason to do that, but I don't know that here. I will certainly come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u369	Okay. Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u370	That is a key question. This way of setting up "construction," Mr Wilders calls it "construction" has been used. We all know him. And so he's not fixed in a policy decision. The CDA group really wants to understand how this could have happened, because in the section of the SEC, which we will come back to later, there is another example, namely Royal Hoogovens, which merged with his British counterpart at the time, before they became Tata. This was available and apparently the sector does not know what it looks like. Can you do that according to the regulations? And what happened there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u371	The question is asked again. At his question whether anyone who offers a dividend access mechanism can get a ruling on that, the answer was yes, because anyone with the same factual complex can get the same ruling. So that's not what this is about. But to his specific question, and this is about something that was or was not laid down in a policy decision a few years ago, I simply do not know the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u372	Okay, well, you'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u373	I can check. Mr Omtzigt can say that it is key to this debate. I don't feel that way personally at all, but I do think it's important that I can give the answer, so I'm gonna check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u374	I think that is indeed one of the core elements of this debate. I would actually like to have it for the second term, so that we can include it in our second term. I would therefore like to have this in the first term of the Secretary of State. I also had a question about the dividend access scheme. As we can read this now, it sounds pretty appealing to companies. So, in general terms, I am not asking about one specific company: how many companies are using this and do they have an agreement on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u375	You can make it as big as you like, but in general you need to have a dual stock structure to be interesting for this at all. That won't be in many cases. I don't know by heart. It'll be a few companies that can have that. But it's not like this is some kind of general rule for everyone. If you have a bakery around the corner, you can't keep a dividend access mechanism outside the Netherlands. I don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u376	I ask this question because one of the important things is the application of a rule. It is about everyone being able to make use of this and it is about similar cases. But if it turns out that there are no similar cases, then it also looks very much like tailor-made agreements. So I think that question is relevant and perhaps it can also be answered in the first term of the Secretary of State: how many other companies are using this route? If everyone can make use of this, there are more companies with such a dual structure. In this context, the policy decision is also interesting, to know where it is laid down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u377	Anyone who wants to make use of that schedule and knock on the door of the Tax Administration to get a settlement agreement on that can do so, period. That's not a question, it is. Anyone who arrives with the same complex of facts will receive exactly the same treatment. So that's not a question, that's just true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u378	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u379	My question, and I hope that I get the promise that I will get the answer to that the first deadline is: how many times is this used?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u380	That is a different question than his first question, where I think it was asked why it was not laid down in a policy decision. I simply honestly said to Mr Omtzigt: I do not know. Moreover, I do not think that, if there is a specific factual complex involving a tax treatment issued by the inspector, it will in general always lead to a policy decision. A policy decision should probably be taken but well, I am here a bit in an area where I don't know all about it yet, giving some sort of general indication for a lot of other companies. I am going to look up the answer because I do not know, but in this case you could say that the application is only interesting for a limited number of companies and that therefore no policy decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u381	Anyway, you'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u382	I'll get back to you as soon as I know the answer. I can't do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u383	I asked for the number of companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u384	The number of companies. That's what the Secretary of State said. Here he comes in the second term...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u385	No, in the first term, I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u386	Yes, but the Secretary of State says in the second term. He can't say that right now. So you can do that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u387	I don't have the answer right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u388	Mr. Klaver...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u389	Mr. Chairman. It's 10:30, damn it. There are constantly notes on and down here to give information to rulers. I'm asking if we can do that in the first term. I would like to be able to take this into account in how I fill out my second term. I think that's a very reasonable request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u390	The Secretary of State has said that he will return to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u391	Mr. President, you can record it for the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u392	No, no, I'm not defending the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u393	...but he can answer for himself. I hear he says, in the second term. My question is: in the first term. I'm asking if he can answer that question. That's a question. Can he live up to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u394	I could give you the same answer three times. I don't have the answer now, so I can't give it to you either. It's that easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u395	Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u396	Mr President, on a point of order in addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u397	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u398	Thank you. I, too, believe that we will get it in the first term. I would rather suggest that we suspend for a while in order to give the answer in the first period, so that we can at least take that with us for the second period. Otherwise it's too late, then it's mustard after dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u399	Mr Azarkan, and also Mr Klaver. It is customary for the executive to return to certain questions, technical questions, in the second term. If you want to suspend, I'm just gonna see if there's a majority for that, or we're gonna go back and forth... It's possible. So you tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u400	Mr President, once again, that is under the condition that the Secretary of State is unable to reply in the first term. I don't think he's saying that he can't. If that's not possible, then I'd prefer to suspend for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u401	I'm just gonna ask everyone again if there's a need for a suspension. I think it's... No, it's a little shouting and I have to respond to that. It is customary for some questions to be taken into account in the second term. If everyone says "we're not gonna talk until that information is there," then an order proposal for suspension must be made. No? Well, then I suggest the Secretary of State proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u402	Mr. Chairman. I had another question from Mr Van Weyenberg, who actually joined...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u403	Sorry. Mr Van der Staaij had another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u404	I was faced with another point raised by the Secretary of State, namely that there is no political interference. I think that's a good thing too. At the same time, we have understood from letters from the Prime Minister that sometimes the Ministry of Finance informs General Affairs about certain specific determination agreements. What is the ratio, the purpose of that notification and in what cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u405	For example, in the case we are talking about today. It may be that the inspector, who himself is dealing with a determination agreement, decides at some point that something can lead to, for example, a political debate or is important to know. A member of the board may then be informed of the fact that a determination agreement has been issued. That's never about the fiscal content. There is no request for the government's approval, because it is not about this. It's the inspector who's talking about that. But he can inform the govern ment that the settlement agreement has been concluded. That is, for example, in this case... I cannot say anything about whether it is closed or not, but I am also, of course, informed in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u406	This kind of communication, says the Secretary of State, is ultimately only informative and can never lead to another fixing agreement. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u407	Uh, chairman, I have to be honest... Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u408	I understand the Secretary of State was distracted for a moment. My question was: does that indeed mean that it is only informative and that political information on this can never lead to an adaptation of or any other decision on that agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u409	I don't know if you should ever say "never," because I think there's ultimately something like a right of direction. Hierarchically, the IRS is under the Secretary of State. In my view, therefore, there is also, in theory, some kind of right of direction. I don't think it's being applied. At least, I've never seen him or, as far as I know, my predecessors either. Whether that ever happened in the past, perhaps, but at least not in this case. At least it's not the intention. It is really intended that the inspector should decide on the complex of facts, because he knows about the facts and circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u410	Following on from Van der Staaij's question: could this kind of information about such a settlement agreement in general be used by a member of the board at a prayer book or a lobby call to keep a head office here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u411	I don't know. I didn't do that. No, I don't think that makes any sense. There are only a certain number of cases, I think, in which the inspector says: this is an important case; a determination agreement has been reached on this. I honestly don't have an opinion on whether that's possible or not. I haven't even been through a prayer book. I don't even know what that looks like, so I can't say much about it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u412	That's incredibly fair, but you're responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u413	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u414	In 2014, such a communication was made in the direction of General Affairs. It was used in talks between the Prime Minister and companies. We are trying, without going into a specific company, to find out whether this type of agreement is being used in the lobby. Why? Because the financial importance is very great. If you do answer that question from Klaver in the second term, you can also find here the knowledge gap...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u415	I can answer it in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u416	Well, I hope you can answer this question right away, because I do want to know the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u417	I think this is about the situation in which you can say: you are politically responsible for something that was sent in 2014. That's true, of course. I understand that, too. That concept is clear to me, but I think you mentioned a prayer book and I don't know anything about it. If your question is whether that can be used for a prayer book, I say in all honesty: I do not know if that can be done. Anything's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u418	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u419	I asked the question a little bit wider. I asked: is this kind of information about fixing agreements used by government officials in the lobby to keep headquarters here in prayerbooks? That was not an exhaustive list limited to prayerbooks. Then I understand you saying, "I don't know." My question is to find out if you do not know; I believe you immediately whether this kind of information was used in the lobby in 2014. You can easily find out, because the piece is above water. That was provided by Finance itself last Friday, the Prime Minister wrote to me today. So that question could also be answered in the first term. Take the following with you. You say that any company with the same complex of facts can make use of this but, you say, the baker around the corner of course not. Any company which is therefore a large oil company with a dual infrastructure can make use of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u420	I think I should do the same thing here when we just did the dividend access mechanism. Mr Asscher asks me about a prayer book and whether it is being used or not. I really wouldn't know. I'll try...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u421	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u422	... just as I want the answer to this in the first term, to give an appropriate answer to Mr Asscher here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u423	That is what I am waiting for, but I do think it is important that it is clear that it can never be that, with another fixing agreement to be established, we are still going to negotiate with the rules in a bidbook in order to make it appropriate. Hopefully, the Secretary of State can answer that question in full with: no, we don't?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u424	No. That case is clear, but I think Mr Asscher's question was: could it be? I am now very well trained in this debate not to say it immediately if I am not exactly sure. That is why I want to build a little certainty into it and say: shall I just come back to that question? But the case of Mr Van Weyenberg seems to me to be a 'nogal weeds' case. But then the dividend access mechanism. Why was that not in the policy decision, was the question of several Members of Parliament. The answer to that was actually even more obvious than I thought, and I actually said it already. It is true that the tax consequences are the result of the law. If it comes from the law and therefore there is no clarity or ambiguity or no open question of law, but it follows directly from the law, then there is no need for a policy decision. That's what I wanted to say about the dividend access mechanism. Do I have to explain it again? Really? I heard... I shouldn't respond to that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u425	No, no. I can see you, Mr. Ommzigt, but I'd like to know from the Secretary of State how far he's about answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u426	This was just the first block, Mr. Chairman. I'm doing my best to keep up the pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u427	To understand the answer correctly: the dividend access mechanism is so clear, so simple and so simple that everyone understands it and therefore does not have to be in a policy decision. But that such a Professor Van de Streek also doesn't understand how it works, is a little collateral damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u428	I can't look into this professor's mind. I am merely saying that we are convinced that the law clearly reflects what the tax consequences were in this case, and that no policy decision was necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u429	And because there was no policy decision, there is no problem that there is so much uncertainty that no one else would know exactly whether and how to do that. So there was equality between all companies in the Netherlands, from the baker on the corner through the small multinational to the big multinational, to close such a dividend access mechanism because it follows directly from the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u430	That's not the question. The inspector sees a complex of facts and then has to bring in the law and say: what comes out of this? If it's clear to him, and if there are no more points of law, then he can just do it. That's what happened in this case. In general terms, it is not about specific cases. Suppose a dividend access mechanism is presented, then the inspector knows what to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u431	I suggest you move on. No, Mr. Clover, I'm very sorry. No, please wait until the Secretary of State continues answering a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u432	Mr. Chairman. I leave open the question of which investigations have been carried out in recent years by the Court of Auditors, audit services, sounding board groups and external working groups on the quality, content, process and transparency of rulings. Because it's not like we're just looking at that alone and not asking anyone else to give their opinion. In 2019, the General Court of Auditors will also visit again for an integral review of the ruling practice. We're all looking forward to seeing them. Then I come to some more specific questions about the present case. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether the ruling on which the briefing was based falls within the framework of the legislation? Mr Omtzigt asked for this. Then we'll get the same answer again. I cannot go into that in principle, at least I will not go into it, since we are weighing Article 67. But in general, I have the full conviction that the Tax Administration gives advance security within the framework of law, policy and case law. Mr Omtzig also asked whether the SEC-filling was included in Shell's assessment. I cannot answer this question in relation to Article 67 of the AWR, but in general I can say that the Tax Administration takes all the signals it reaches into its supervision. This also applies to the issue of advance security. All external information is also included in the monitoring. Mr Asscher asked whether the ruling was submitted to the European Commission? Should that still happen, or should this have happened? Of this, my first sentence, which you know by now, applies: I cannot go into it because of Article 67 of the AWR, because that would confirm or deny the existence of this alleged ruling and I do not want to do so. However, in general terms, rulings are not submitted to the European Commission, as there is no reason to do so. Indeed, the rulings were issued within the framework of law, policy and regulation. If that is the case, then there can be no state aid. Taxable persons with the same complex of facts are therefore treated in the same way. Therefore, there can be no State aid in an individual case. Mr Azarkan asked whether a distribution of Shell's daughter was subject to the dividend tax. The first part of my answer will be clear: under Article 67 of the AWR, I cannot answer that question. But I can say that, when it comes to the obligation of deduction in general on the basis of the dividend provision, that is determined by the dividend tax law. At the time when the Dutch holding company distributes profits, this should in principle also be subject to dividend tax. In general, no Dutch dividend tax is deducted from distribution by foreign companies. Let that be clear, too. Mr Omtzigt said that I referred to the new design of the ruling practice and asked what was so relevant about it. He said: the new design made all the ruling go through the APA/ATR team, but I don't think these rulings would have gone outside the team. When it comes to the second part of the question, it may be clear that Article 67 of the AWR does not allow me to make a ruling, but I indicated in my letter of 18 February that the ruling practice for rulings of an international character will be reviewed. I have already answered the question of what we are all going to look at. I will inform your Chamber about this in the autumn. The last question about these gifts has already been answered by the Prime Minister. So you can't give a gift if you comply with laws and regulations, so they don't exist either. Mr President, that was my second block. I'll move on soon, if you'll allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u433	What are you gonna talk about now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u434	This concerns Mr Omtzigt's question as to whether I can provide information on individual taxable persons if these taxable persons do so themselves. That is actually in the future to the question of transparency. I thought it might be a good thing that I finish the story and then receive the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u435	Yes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u436	Mr President, I would like to come back to the issue of state aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u437	You'll have the floor in a moment, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u438	If a taxpayer himself brings something out, can you do it yourself? Does Article 67 of the AWR permit the Tax Administration or the State Secretary to correct incorrect messages which is also a nice debt of taxpayers? For example, as a arms supplier claims to have a Dutch ruling while that is not true. That, I believe, was the example that was cited. The answer to that is no. By the way, one of my predecessors has already dealt with this. In his letter of 16 May 2012, Mr Weekers discussed in detail the relationship between the tax confidentiality obligation and the right to information of your Chamber. It also describes the case in which information that could be traced back to an individual taxable person was disclosed. Mr Weekers pointed out that it was not up to him as Secretary of State or to the Tax Administration to confirm or disprove these data and that these circumstances towards your Chamber did not affect the consideration of whether or not certain information could be provided. In view of the duty of fiscal secrecy, I can say nothing about this particular case, even though the President of Shell, for example, himself, has made a statement on a particular case. The same applies to an arms supplier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u439	Then I'm going back to the previous point. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u440	We're in reassuring technical night music.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u441	Yeah, you asked questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u442	It is said that I am not suggesting this state aid, and that is not possible, because it is all within the law; and if you want to know if it is within the law, then I am not saying anything, because that is not allowed under Article 67. We can do this a few times, but I do remember that, for example, when ruling on Starbucks, the Commission found that it was contrary to the law and that there was indeed State aid. The question is therefore how the Secretary of State assumes his responsibility to check whether the manner in which the inspector deals with this is in accordance with European law. Because if there were State aid, 7 billion was wrongly forgiven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u443	What is important is that I have also started the debate on this issue. I am confident that tax inspectors will issue rulings within existing laws and regulations and case law. Mr Asscher suggested that we were reasoning in a sort of circle, but that is not the case. I state that I have every confidence that it is within the laws and regulations. If that is what you're assuming, and I'm assuming it, then by definition it can't be a matter of state aid, unless the underlying law may have State aid aspects. But that is not the case, not only in this case, but also in those other cases. But it's not like I can test that against the law as you say. I can only check whether the policy decisions comply with the laws and regulations. I don't just do that myself. I have just mentioned a number of bodies that are testing this with me, such as the Audit Service of the Empire and the General Court of Auditors. We also have an independent sounding board that evaluates content, process and technique randomly in a large test every year. What am I gonna do about it? I'm just listening to that and I'm making sure that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u444	Thanks for that answer, because that does indeed give more checks-and-balances to see if...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u445	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u446	Without saying anything about this individual company, my question is whether the authorities that judge whether there is State aid have already taken a random look at the general construction that is accessible to all companies with the same factual complex around dividend access mechanisms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u447	Over the years, hundreds, thousands of rulings have been tested and you specifically ask me if I know if this ruling has been considered in the random trial. The answer is no, I don't know. I already know that I cannot answer that question in the first period either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u448	So in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u449	We cannot withdraw from a system that we have randomly drawn and that this and these rulings are part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u450	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u451	In the first period, I asked the question, which was addressed to the Prime Minister, whether there was any consideration of State aid in this respect. I get that it's complicated to make a statement about an individual company. I was just asking the question of interruption. The Secretary of State said at the time: I have every confidence, so there is no state aid. Then he said, "But there are others watching with it." So that is very relevant, because this, however you turn or turn, is something that is looked at whether someone outside the inspector himself has wondered whether there is state aid. My request would be to answer that question anyway. You don't have to do that now. It would be nice if we could do that in the second term, but if we can't, please write it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u452	I have to go back to something I would have liked to skip, namely the investigations into the ruling practice, because that is what is being asked for now. In 2014, the General Court examined the ruling practice in terms of both content and process. The Court concluded that there were well-founded decisions. Next, in 2017, there was a major investigation, which I myself started, into the process surrounding the rulings with an international character. That was the more than 4,000 rulings we had to look at. The conclusion was that the procedures were well followed within APA/ATR, but not always outside. That freaked me out. I promised we'd do something about that. I told a committee to look into it. She shouldn't do that on her own. A sounding board with external experts has also been included. They will be able to say something about this before 1 January 2019. I am going to report to you about it in the autumn of this year. Then I'm really serious, because I really think we can improve things in that, even when it comes to transparency. The General Court, at the request of your Chamber in 2019, has once more...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u453	2019?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u454	At the request of the Court of Auditors, this will be examined again in 2019. In 2017, we commissioned an independent committee to investigate APAs and ATRs. We agreed that we would do this annually from 2017 and beyond. I'll report on that in the six months reports. The conclusion was that there is no evidence of substantive or procedural errors in all APAs and ATRs examined. I'm not saying it's gonna be okay. No, I'm actually having it checked by external committees over and over again, even if something happens. We also sometimes recognise that things are not going well. That was the big ruling investigation. There were procedural errors. So I'm gonna come up with some ideas on how to keep that up. Part of it was more centralization and some of it is sometimes also the question of whether we want to issue a ruling in all cases. I think that's an interesting question. Does it always help a settlement agreement to make a choice for a company that might not otherwise have done so? On these issues, this internal working group with an external sounding board will inform me. It's really important that we keep doing that. Mr. Chairman. Starbucks is still a bit open. It stuck once or twice. At the end it was about what was going on then, because it was different then, so it was said. It is true that, in that case, the European Commission, in accordance with its own rules, which it has had to follow, has violated the obligation of confidentiality by making it public. That is what the Commission has done. Then the weighing of the cabinet was: how do we deal with this in the balance between 68 Constitution and 67 AWR? That's when the balance of interests was changed. On the basis of that consideration, your Chamber was also first informed by a confidential briefing. After that, parliamentary questions were answered. In the end, by publishing this data, we decided to make that balance different from what we have done today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u455	I have a question about Article 67 which may also be answered later in relation to this case of Starbucks. Earlier in the reply, the Secretary of State said that he could not respond: we cannot react when a company simply brings out the honest information. And he said, we can't react when a company says they have a ruling but they don't. That seems close to being false in writing, if you want to write that down somewhere and use it for doing business in the Netherlands. And it will be when the European Commission makes it public. Would the Secretary of State at a later date, not now, reflect on whether it is desirable or not to be able to say that it is true or not when a company itself comes out? Otherwise, we can have a mock discussion in the Netherlands about what is really going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u456	I really feel sorry for the inconvenience of the whole discussion we're having. That is why I said: can we not come up with something else about transparency in this ruling practice? I think that is a different matter from what Mr Omtzigt is asking me right now. I am trying all the time to tell your Chamber what the balance sheet we are looking for in the weighting of your right, Article 68 of the Constitution, and the protection of the taxpayer. I think it is extremely important that a taxpayer should also be protected. It will happen that a taxpayer does it himself or chooses it or whatever. But it may well be that it seems as if he has chosen to do so, but that he may be put under pressure. If, in that case, we still violate the confidentiality of the taxpayer, then we really have a problem. In all honesty, therefore, I do not feel so much for a different weighting or interpretation or a review of Article 67. My feeling is that in Article 67 we have the opportunity to go a little further than we do, for example by offering a technical briefing, as we have done this time. I like that balance. It's exciting, but it's okay. Something else is the transparency of the ruling practice in general. We have discussed this with each other for a long time before. Can't we do something more about that? Then I actually sympathize with the Chamber, because I have that myself: couldn't we come up with a better play for that than we do now? But not on the basis of an amendment to Article 67.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u457	I'm thinking about that "theater piece."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u458	I think we'll just get involved in the next debate in which we talk about ruling practice, because I still think it's weird that when someone voluntarily brings something out, no test can take place. Then it would be nice to have a test to see if it's about right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u459	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u460	My reaction was: we have to be very careful what the word "volunteer" means. It is really quite difficult to determine if there is. However, I am happy to resume this discussion in a debate in which we are talking again about the rule-making practice, for example in the autumn, when we are talking about transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u461	Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State says that, if we want openness about this ruling that is there, and if we also want to know whether this is really shell, then we should actually go down the route of the European Commission, and that this cabinet does not, in his view, have the freedom to depart from Article 67 until the European Commission has looked at it and made it public?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u462	That's not law enforcement. There's no algorithm behind this. It is not the case that when the Commission conducts an investigation, which leads to a different balance between Article 68 and Article 67, the result being a technical briefing and then parliamentary questions. It's not like that. We have a very complex set of measures. We're really trying to get as good as we can. We have tried by giving a briefing to meet your information needs, which you are also just entitled to. But we also really want to protect the confidentiality of the information you receive as a tax authority and thus as a State from someone who gets an attack or a company that gets an attack. I'll stick with that. It is so important that we protect it, because if we did not, for example, and they did not tell the service everything because they were afraid that confidentiality would be damaged sooner or later, it might also mean something to tax morals and tax revenues. And then it becomes really in the interests of the State that we don't. So I really want to stay very precise about that and say that there is this article, and that is not for nothing; that is for the protection of the taxpayer. I can't say that enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u463	It's getting rather arbitrary. So it was possible in 2015. At that time, however, the other consideration was made. Then the Secretary of State said: "We're not talking about Snel or Wiebes or Weekers; no, this is about the Secretary of State, literally: there's so much known now, that I'm now, out of pragmatism, opening things up; that pragmatism now weighs more than the principle. This has opened the way for us to talk about this openly. That was possible in 2015. I would also like to say that not everything was shared then, because you simply cannot share everything. I am not arguing for that at all. You don't have to throw everything out on the street. That didn't happen at Starbucks either. But the relevant information was shared with the Chamber at the time. I find it really strange that in this case it is said: we do not, because the principle of Article 67 weighs more heavily. Two years ago, or three years ago, that was not the case at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u464	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u465	So what's the decisive argument here? I still haven't heard that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u466	There is no decisive argument here. From minute one in this debate, I have tried to point out that it is a search for a balance, which is difficult and I understand that. We can conclude together that a different balance sheet was chosen at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u467	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u468	The two cases I was there at the time are completely comparable, with the exception of one thing, namely that the European Commission had looked at them. But there's about as much information available to the public about what's going on now as there was then about Starbucks. The only thing that was made public at the time is that it was about Starbucks in this case would then be admitted that it was about Shell and a number of things that would not endanger Starbucks' business. In the weighing that was made then, a little bit more looked at the Chamber. Not everything was made public at the time, but a number of things were. I would really like to ask the Secretary of State once again to make that weighting again, to see what he really can't share but what he can, so that at least the Chamber is better informed. In 2015, it was possible. Then we can do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u469	You already said that. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u470	I am sticking to what I just said, namely that apparently a different balance was chosen at the time than it is now. There was also a question about that state aid case, about Starbucks. There was also a misunderstanding about that. How did that go? First of all, it is good to say that this matter is still ongoing; it has not yet been concluded; it has not yet been decided. However, if, in the hypothetical case, Starbucks were to be convicted of receiving unlawful State aid, that State aid would be recovered from Starbucks, not from the taxpayer, I say for all intents and purposes. Mr. Chairman. I come now to a series of final questions. There aren't that many anymore. I'm really close to the end. Mr Omtzigt asked what rules apply in general to the dividend tax on foreign subsidiaries and their Dutch holding company. And if this question was not specific enough: what facts and circumstances did the answer depend on? I will try not to go completely into the tax technique, but I would like to give a proper answer. In general, the dividend paid by a foreign subsidiary to a Dutch holding company will be part of the profits of this Dutch holding company. If the Dutch holding company then distributes this profit, dividend tax should in principle be withheld. This dividend payment may be subject to the Parent-Subsidiary Directive or a Tax Convention. This would result in an exemption from the dividend tax or a levy at a lower rate, in that case 15%. Mr Omtzigt asked, and Mr Bruins had the same question: is it possible to pay out capital under Dutch law, and what are the conditions for that? This also applies to the fact that there is a whole world of tax technology behind it. So I'm going to try to answer it very briefly. In this case, I assume that the question is then whether a distribution of capital can take place without a tax on dividends. That's, I think, the question. To this end, there is a basic rule, namely: the principle of the law is that, in the event of a profit, a tax is levied on the repayment of capital. However, there is also an exception: no tax will be levied on repayment of capital if it has taken a decision by the general meeting of shareholders on two conditions or if an amendment of the articles of association reduces the nominal value of the shares in question by the amount of the refund. In that case, there is therefore no tax due. There was also a question about the ruling of the European Court in a Danish case on dividend taxation. It was relevant to the Netherlands, but at the moment I cannot say exactly what the consequences are for the Dutch dividend tax. That really requires careful study. Such a statement is generally not just one A4's. It may even be possible that the necessary clarity can only be achieved through further case-law. It is a matter of ruling on a foreign regulation, which makes it difficult to translate it directly into Dutch law. However, this ruling makes it clear that the abolition of the dividend tax has the additional advantage of eliminating the abovementioned European legal risks in the future. This has been mentioned before. Mr Van Weyenberg asked about the exact interpretation of the withholding tax that is currently being worked out. As far as he's concerned, it had to be ambitious. He asked me to respond to that. I am glad that this question has been asked because it is quite clear that this cabinet, and I in particular, want to take a firm step in the fight against tax avoidance. That seems to be snowing under in this debate. This also includes an ambitious introduction of a withholding tax on dividends to low-tax jurisdictions, blacklisted countries and countries with a very low rate, or in abusive situations. I've talked about that before in the Chamber. I said at the time that this withholding tax must have teeth. So that's not nothing. Right now, I'm working on the draft bill. As usual, I'll tell your room more about that on Princess' Day. Well, that's not the only thing. The Tax Plan will also be extended to include a withholding tax on interest and royalty payments, also to countries on a blacklist, countries that we regard as tax havens and countries that want to abuse. With regard to these black lists, Mr Van Weyenberg also asked me if I could make sure that countries which are now on a grey list and do not comply with the agreements we have with them automatically go to a heavy list. I am also grateful for this question. We have discussed this extensively in several Ecofin AOs and the answer is yes. The countries still have a little time to live up to their promises. As soon as they fail to deliver on their promises on 1 January, they go straight to a blacklist and all kinds of rhetorical measures, as is so well known in the directive, are applied. For example, the withholding tax we are currently introducing into our own national legislation. That process, in which we are tough and fair, because we apply the same rules to everyone, I will continue to watch strictly. I think that I have also answered the question about Jersey in specific condition. Is that a low-tax jurisdiction? I can only say that after 1 January, because then we all decided. If they do not change and remain as they are, the answer is: yes, they are. Then they are affected by our measures, and not only by our measures but also, for example, by measures around country-by-country reporting. Madam President, that is what I think I came to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u471	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u472	Thank you, Mr President. There is nothing more to say tonight than that we thought that abolishing the dividend tax and giving the gift to foreign shareholders of 1.6 billion was a bad idea in any case. But now that we also know that for a large multinational like Shell, the dividend tax has been largely abolished for years, the story is only getting stronger for us. We find it shocking. We went to the secret briefing this afternoon, and we asked for openness. Once again, what has been said here is not secret but explosive as far as we are concerned. That information belongs here. I really blame the Prime Minister for keeping the lid on the dividend deafening jar, even after tonight. We ask him from the Chamber time and time again to open things up, but that openness simply does not come. That's why we have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Shell's UK shareholders have not paid a dividend tax for thirteen years since the unification of the multinational;]] [[noting that through the Director-General of Shell it was stated that the agreement was known, necessary for the establishment of the head office in the Netherlands and that it was known that the Tax Administration approved this deal;]] [[noting that there are serious doubts as to whether this tax deal is in line with the Dutch tax law;]] [[considers that more than 7 billion taxes are impossible to explain on the basis of a shady deal;]] [[calls on the government to end this tax structure and to recover the 7 billion from Shell,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-213]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u473	Mr. Chairman. What kind of debate! Every question that was asked was answered with the shield of Article 67. However, the image remains of a lone prime minister who, as a kind of tax pump operator of big business, is allowed to make sure that we do not refuel at Shell, but the other way around. This has so far had nothing to do with the importance of the country. As I said before, this coalition, Rutte III, is defined by the proposal to abolish the dividend tax. Everyone here knows: talk about it, use the summer if necessary, make up a story, but don't do this. No one gets it. No one supports it. The Netherlands thinks it's very bad. This is bad for confidence in politics. And that EUR 1.6 billion can and must be spent much better. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there is no substantive justification for abolishing the dividend tax and that it has not been included in any of the electoral programmes;]] [[noting that the abolition of the dividend tax means the abolition of the foreign state treasury;]] [[Considering that the money could be much better invested in the Netherlands in good care, in affordable homes, in more teachers, in street safety;]] [[calls on the Government to reconsider the deduction of the dividend tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-214]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u474	And then the second one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has a beautiful tradition of independent and scientific support for large decisions;]] [[Whereas the deduction of the dividend tax constitutes a major tax revision;]] [[calls on the Government to submit a separate legislative proposal in accordance with the Hoekstra motion adopted in the First Chamber if it continues to abolish the dividend tax;]] [[calls on the Government to accompany this separate legislative proposal with independent and scientific research into the effects of paying dividends,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Klaver and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-215]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u475	Mr President, thank you. This was another chapter; on to the next. I think we will be standing here a few more times, even before we talk about the final legislative proposal here. I started my first term with the strategy that this cabinet has, and certainly this Prime Minister: if I don't have to tell the truth or if I don't have to give full disclosure, then I won't do it until I run into the light again. For the past year, it has turned out that the lamp is more common than it was nice. I therefore believe that information will be available again about this dividend tax and that we will be standing here again. Let me be clear: my group believes that we really need to move away from the miserable plan to abolish the dividend tax. I have one more question. At a question from Mr Omtzigt about the dividend access mechanism, the Secretary of State indicated that this was a direct result of the law. It is very late and this was said very quickly. I would like to be in writing about how this works out, what part of the law it comes from and why that policy decision is not necessary. You don't have to do that in the second term. You can do that in a week or two weeks. I just want to be able to study that at ease and quietly. What I really don't get, I already indicated in the debate, especially with the VVD. There are currently questions as to whether EUR 7 billion has been wrongly spent, or whether that amount has been wrongly paid to a company. Then you can say: we have been informed, because we spent an hour and a half with civil servants. Yeah, but that doesn't give me the answer to the question whether that happened. It is also too easy to say that it is completely wrong. Eventually, I don't have all the information for that. But I think the Chamber should get all that information up there. In view of all the confidentiality that exists, we have only one means, and that is the means of the parliamentary inquiry. If it turns out here that money went to Shell wrongly, I think we should get it back. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are still unanswered questions about the fact that part of Shell's shareholders do not pay a dividend tax;]] [[noting that more than EUR 7 billion of tax revenue may have been lost;]] [[Considering that there has been uncertainty as to the legality of the ruling between Shell and the Tax Administration;]] [[considers that no one in a rule of law is above the law;]] [[points out that a parliamentary survey should be carried out to get the bottom line on the ruling between Shell and the Tax Administration and the role that this ruling had in the intention to abolish the dividend tax;]] [[calls on the Bureau to set up a working group to launch an investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Azarkan, Mr Thieme and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-216]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u476	Mr. Chairman. When I listen to the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State's answers, I have to think of what George Orwell has ever written: Power is based on confusion and opacity, and this requires the creation of verbal fog curtains. This has happened today, in which Article 67 of the General Law on State Taxation has been abused as far as we are concerned. I appeal urgently to the democratic conscience of my colleagues in the coalition parties. You, along with us, hold the highest office in a parliamentary democracy, the office of representative of the people. As a result, you must control the executive, on behalf of the electorate, without burden or back-spoke. So ask yourself the following questions. Can I explain to the public why I sign measures that give 5 billion to multinationals every year? Can I explain this to the citizens who have been allowed to cough up the costs of a financial crisis caused by incompetent bankers since 2008? Do I strengthen confidence in the office of representative of the people if I accept a supposed obligation of confidentiality, which would forbid me from telling the citizens about tax arrangements with multinationals? And: do I serve the public interest when I participate in making the Netherlands a welfare state for multinationals, instead of being a public representative serving the public interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u477	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u478	Mr President, thank you. Tonight was the umpteenth chapter of what's actually a disarray. It is clear that Prime Minister Rutte has taken the Democrats '66, the Christian Union and the Christian Democratic Appeal hostage. In exchange for some of the power, they must agree to a 1.6 billion gift to the multinationals. Mr. Chairman. It gets monotonous, it gets frustrating and it gets, I think, extremely boring for the people at home. No matter how long we talk about it, how many questions we ask, how many debates, round tables, technical briefings and secret briefings we keep: it doesn't matter. I can imagine people looking at home and asking themselves the question: what are our parliamentarians doing there? Mr. Chairman. An idea, also a bad idea, could happen to anyone. It's time to get out of it. Ultimately, it is about making choices in the interests of our people, that we are transparent and honest about this, that people at home understand why we are doing the things that we are doing here, that we are doing that well, that we are convincing each other with good arguments and that we are fighting for a fair and just Netherlands, where multinationals do not influence the legislation through our Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Rutte has his way for now, Shell has his way, Unilever has his way. Rutte is covered by the coalition partners with a commitment cast in concrete of hardened steel. And the opposition looks patiently and shakes its head. The citizens at home too are watching and can do nothing. There is really nothing against such an ugly measure, but nothing can be done. That measure is foul. And we will continue to talk about this, because the last word has not yet been said about this. Mr. Chairman. I'll finish with a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government intends to abolish the dividend tax by 1 January 2020;]] [[having regard to the fact that the justification and the basis for such support are extremely poor;]] [[Whereas the best possible use should be made of the available public resources, with as many people as possible actually benefiting from them;]] [[calls on the government to remove the dividend tax and to use the funds released to reduce the risk in the care from €385 to €200,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-217]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u479	Officials, we are dealing here with a debate in which the government is constantly hiding behind fragile political choices. That is, I think, a recurring problem in the political debate in this Chamber. There is a smokescreen of location, employment and economic growth, which cannot be supported in any way by figures, facts, scientific evidence or anything else. In fact, they are making a political choice that is poorly substantiated. And we stand for small and medium-sized enterprises, SMEs,zzp'ers, small and medium-sized enterprises, family businesses, entrepreneurs. That is why we are in favour of spending some 1.4 billion dollars on the abolition of inheritance tax, the abolition of donation tax, the reduction of the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises, and not on a reduction of the burden exclusively for that small group of mainly foreign shareholders, who may have a small advantage, but certainly not as much as the cabinet would have. We are not convinced by the arguments that have been put forward and we continue to repeat these points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u480	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u481	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u482	Mr. Chairman. I still owe Mr Bruins an answer. At the end of his speech, he had spoken in the first place about the advantages and disadvantages of certain structures. He asked, "Do you want to reflect on that?" I am, of course, limited in part because of the discussion on Article 67. But more generally, I would like to refer to what I said myself in the first term about the importance of abolishing the dividend tax. You can also see how important it is for companies to be able to structure themselves in such a way that they can also function in this country, even if they were dealing with other situations in other countries. This is all the more important because the Netherlands is a country that wants to be attractive, not only for the manufacturing industry and for services, but also for headquarters. I would add that to what Mr Bruins said. We also want to ensure that these headquarters can settle here. I have to keep it that general. I listened to his speech. I get that argument. If the underlying elements were correct, but of course I cannot say anything about them, and he would draw this conclusion on that basis, I would also agree. Unfortunately, I have to stick to that vagueness, but I thought it was correct to give him that answer. There was also a question about the prayerbook in relation to rulings. A bidbook for companies does not contain any commitments and/or guarantees, therefore no rulings. It provides a factual and up-to-date overview of the Dutch location climate. These are elements that apply to all companies. I deal with two motions and the Secretary of State also deals with two motions. And then there's the Klever c.s. motion. in piece No. 216, but we're not gonna say anything about that. I'm handling the Asscher c.s. motion. in piece No. 214 first. It calls for a review of the abolition of the dividend tax. For the sake of clarity, may I refer to the detailed explanation given by the Secretary of State and myself in the first term, in the pleasant discussions we have had about it? That's how I dissuade the motion. That also applies to the Azarkan motion in part No. 217, which calls for the complete abolition to be deleted. I also advise against that motion. We are convinced of the usefulness of this measure. So I would also advise against that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u483	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u484	Mr. Chairman. There are two more motions for me. First of all, the motion in part No. 213 from Marijnissen, Asscher and Wilders. They make a number of observations before they come to a request. I'd like to repeat a little bit. We do not deal with individual matters under Rule 67 of the AWR, even if they come to us by means of a motion. But in general, I keep saying that the Tax Administration always enforces the law. That is why we do not recommend this motion. Then we have the fourth motion, in part no. 216, Van Asscher, Van der Staaij, Klaver and Marijnissen. We are asked to submit a separate legislative proposal and suggestions are also made for the design. This motion, too, requires me to dissuade her. I also have a bit of a feeling that at the moment we should not anticipate a classification of a tax plan that is also before the Council of State. It has to give advice on this and that opinion also deals with the design of the various parts of the tax plan. As you know, this often consists of five or six parts. For that reason, I would also like to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u485	I didn't sign the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u486	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u487	...because I didn't know her. The Secretary of State has already signed the Hoekstra motion in the Senate three times in response to questions from me on this matter. I myself indicated that he is awaiting the opinion of the Council of State. But he has also made it clear that he is not currently presenting a purely draft law on the abolition of dividend taxation. I assume he will come up with a linked proposal, which would be contrary to the Hoekstra motion. I have asked for this three times and always received an evasive answer. There's a motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u488	You've made your point, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u489	Can the Secretary of State say a little more about this and not that it remains vague for the fourth time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u490	Mr President, I am afraid I will stick to both judgments. The judgment on this motion has been dissuaded, because I do not want to anticipate an opinion that I have yet to receive from the Council of State. Just as I take a test of implementation of a tax regime seriously, I also intend to take seriously an opinion that I receive from the Council of State. I assume that the Council of State is also aware of the Hoekstra cum suis motion and will take that into account in the assessment of our bill. Only then can I say something about how we will ultimately bring the various legislative proposals to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u491	I had asked another question about the dividend access mechanism that would logically flow from the law. Can we receive a letter about this so that we do not necessarily have to study at 01.45 how it works, but can do so at ease?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u492	I wasn't going to give you a letter. In my view, the question was how many cases this would take place. I said there wouldn't be that many. Then Mr Klaver asked: but how much is that exactly? Once again, the answer is quite simple: we do not keep track of that. We cannot therefore say how many rulings a specific system has been used for. I hear very loudly saying "that's weird" but at a ruling there are not three flavors of ice cream for it. It's a fact complex and we don't keep track of all the underlying facts or whether there's a DAM, as it's so beautifully called, underlying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u493	That was indeed the question I had asked. Thanks for the answer. I have just asked another question in the second term, namely the answer given by the Secretary of State to Mr Omtzigt on the policy rule. You said that this is not necessary in this case, because it comes directly from the law. That all happened very quickly, when I think it is an important subject. That is why I asked if the Secretary of State could put a little more detail on how that is done, so that we have time to study it quietly. That was the only question I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u494	I am afraid that in this case too, I can once again write down what I have just said about it in a letter, but I think I have indicated what it is. If a specific ruling makes it clear what tax outcome the laws and regulations lead to, then the inspector does not have to take a policy decision. There's a lot more to it than that. It only occurs when there is uncertainty, for example about the issue of law or the meaning of law and regulation. In this case, a specific policy decision can therefore be taken to implement it. So that was not necessary in this case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u495	That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-35.u496	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Secretary of State, the Members of Parliament, the staff and the people who have somehow followed this debate.
