ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u1	I shall begin by reading Mrs Hennis-Plasschaert's farewell letter. Mr President, Dear Khadija, When writing a farewell letter you do not escape to look back at the period behind you. Twenty-four years ago I took the first steps on a path that is now taking a different turn. I started with the European Commission in Brussels. After a few years I moved to Latvia. For the same Commission. A country where the legacy of the Soviet past, at that time, was still palpable. It's no secret that my Latvian time has made an indelible impression on me. More than ever before, I realized that our freedom is fragile. Valuable. A great thing you must love and defend. It became my red thread. Just like in 2004, when I was allowed to sit in the European Parliament in front of the VVD. In 2010 I made the switch to the Lower House. Well, that was a little bit of getting used to. The Hague as the centre of the world. The mores. Group discipline! Group discipline! Group Coalition talks. As a new MP, I soon found out that "freedom" doesn't mean you can give interviews about colleagues' portfolios. Doing so one learns. That's a hell of a job. But above all: what a special and wonderful ministry. At the beginning of November 2012, I acted as Minister of Defence in Rutte II. Five intensive years followed. An organization with a clear core task: "protecting what is dear to us." This is what you want to fight for. It didn't go by itself but the road up is now being walked. However, there is still no defence. And I very much hope that the next few years will continue. In a world where conflicts and instability are thriving, we cannot afford to look away. Last October, I returned to your room. Once again, it was getting used to. But once again, above all, it was a privilege. And now for another step. Iraq will be my site in the coming years. A country facing great challenges. A country where people like you and me live. But also a country where a free and safe environment is by no means a given. Mr. Chairman. I am grateful for the collegiality, support and support that I have been able to experience over and over again. From all of you, and from my group colleagues in particular. I would also like to thank all employees in any position. They really facilitate us in all possible ways and make a life in this house even more beautiful. Great, thank you very much for that! I admit, leaving the Binnenhof is more difficult than I expected in advance. There's one thing I need to get off my chest. In the coming years, the Netherlands will celebrate 75 years of liberation and freedom. We should be proud of that. At the same time, achievements and certainties, which for a long time seemed so rock solid, are increasingly being called into question. The right of existence of international institutions and partnerships is also increasingly being questioned. But the search for a scapegoat for things that we do not like, whether or not encouraged by "they" who make a caricature of what is happening here in The Hague, in Brussels or, for example, New York, is not without risks. Of course, not everything is always translated into sounding currency. The world is complex, problems are complicated and the solutions are rarely simple. But under the line, the value of working together is immense. Vigorous polarisation, in our own country or beyond, will bring us bitterly little. Madam President, thank you very much again! Many greetings, Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u2	Dear Mrs Hennis-Plasschaert, Dear Jeanine, Today you say goodbye to the Chamber, where you spent about three years together. Two periods were your MP for the VVD: from 2010 to 2012 and from 2017 to now. You were a welcome guest in the media. Also here in the room you could with many people through one door. Not only as a Member of Parliament, but also as a Member of the European Parliament and as a Minister of Defence, you have shown what your style is. "Relaxing accessibility," het Parool described it earlier this year. I think a lot of people will recognize themselves in that description. It's a shame we can't take any more advantage of that in the Chamber now that you've chosen a new chapter in your life. You're going to lead the United Nations mission in Iraq. That's worth a big congratulations. It's a challenge and an honor to work on a "in your own words" freer and safer environment for people like you and me. At the same time, it is no secret that I find it extremely regrettable to say goodbye again to a representative of the people. In this case, even someone who received 150,000 votes in favour in the last election. Also the first time you were a Member of Parliament, we could only enjoy you relatively briefly. Your political star rose so fast, we had to give you up to the cabinet after two years. You became the first female Secretary of Defense in the Netherlands. You ended up with an organization that was going through a difficult time: Defence had to reduce in terms of staff and the budget was limited. It didn't make it any easier for you to gain the trust of the military. But that worked well then and went better and better. Sometimes we got to see something of your original approach. In 2013 you tweeted a picture of yourself in a snow hole in northern Norway. In that cabin you spent the night with Dutch marines.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u3	You did that because you wanted to feel for yourself what our soldiers are going through. That's what you thought was crucial for a minister. It's hard for you, as you just said to me, to leave The Hague and the Binnenhof. That's what you said in your letter. And that's not surprising. Much has happened, including in this plenary. I'd like to dwell on two examples of your performance in this Chamber, showing what kind of wood you're made of. A first example brings us back to the difficult debate that took place almost a year ago about the mortar accident in Mali. In all dignity, on that Tuesday, you first gave a detailed account of the policy that you had conducted as a ruler. While some MPs immediately insisted on your departure, you realized how important it is for Dutch democracy that a minister should answer to the Chamber for her policy. It wasn't until the end of the debate that you resigned because you acknowledged your ministerial responsibility. Respect for that. As hard as it was for you personally, you showed how important state-law purity was to you. I really appreciate that. A second example of your characteristic performance in the Chamber comes from your first period as MP, for Rutte-I. You can already feel it coming. You were used in the European Parliament to going ideologically full, as you called it. Now you've been stuck with boarded coalition chords that you've had to stick to. Here he comes: the refuse official, who refused to marry gays. That was your fierce opponent. Yet you voted against abolishing that possibility. Coalition discipline! You had a hard time with that. That's what you showed me. That clarity is very characteristic of you. Don't beat around the bush, don't tell a cover story, but make it clear you were upset. You've swallowed a lot of melons, we say these days about something like that. At the same time, you remained crystal clear about your liberal ideals, which had matured in the late 1990s when you were working in post-Soviet Latvia. One of the most beautiful and shaping periods in your life, you said yourself about that. I think you're on the verge of another special, intensive and forming phase. Thank you so much for your commitment in recent years. We wish you every success in your new job as UN Chief in Iraq. It is a beautiful and important task. Besides, it seems you've been learning Arabic for a while. I'm very curious how that sounds by now. And if you need a hearing, you know where to find me! Good luck. Take care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-4.u4	I shall now suspend the sitting in order to say goodbye to Mrs Hennis-Plasschaert.
