ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u1	We will continue with the discussion of the Justice and Security budget. As we agreed, the Minister of Justice will first have the floor to respond to an amendment tabled by Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. There was that point in the amendment to item No. 14 to invest an additional 53.1 million in police, justice, Public Prosecutor's Office, NFI and the chain of execution. I would advise against that amendment. The coverage of the amendment is not sound. The post under discussion has already been used to address bottlenecks within JenV's 2019 budget. So that money already has a destiny. I would like to mention, for example, the additional costs associated with the Brexit. Betting that amount again would therefore mean that you are going to spend twice. I would like to add, as a Christian Democrat, to that: let us count our blessings. The cabinet has recognised the need for additional resources in the criminal justice chain, in justice and security. I have all mentioned these amounts: 291 for the police alone structuralally, 191 incidentally, 20 million structuralally for the additional capacity and the further criminal justice chain. So let's count our blessings. I don't recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u3	It was my great desire to invest more in the criminal justice chain, but I have been put on the wrong track by the actual answers in preparing for this budgetary treatment. I'm not going to be triumphant about that. I am not upset about that either, but I am disappointed because I would have liked to have invested more. But in terms of content. Under-exhaustment is usually only shown at the end of the year. In recent years, it has always appeared that 11 million euros had not been spent. Well, that was over. That's gonna happen in the next few years. How can you already know that at the end of 2019 there is 53 million euros of unspent money? How can you already know that by the end of 2020 there will be EUR 96 million of unspent money? This looks like a budget cut, so it's actually a new cut. And that is the pressing question to the Minister. We never do that, buried. We've never done this before. This is very striking. This is new. Where does this cut end up? Is the cheese bowl going all over the Ministry? What parts are getting less money as a result of the already planned under-exhaustment of nearly EUR 100 million? 'Cause it's a big deal. This could have serious consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u4	In the case of a budget of the size of this ministry, it is customary to fill in a relatively modest item in relation to the total amount for under-exhaustment, because it can simply happen that certain items are not spent or not spent in full for whatever reason. That's what's happening here. That is good accounting, just as it is good accounting to ensure that it actually happens. And that brings me back to the reason why I am deceiving this: the money is of course already earmarked and then we should not do it a second time. This is what I wanted to leave it at.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u5	Then we're gonna... Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u6	I do not want to ask another question about this, because my question has not been answered. I said, where's that money gonna come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u7	The money comes from the underexhaustment. That's a post that you record as a good housekeeper, good accountant; somehow that term sounds very familiar to me in today's context. That's not unusual, so I don't understand the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u8	While the Minister is dealing with the points from the first term that are still open...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u9	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u10	I'd appreciate it if he could let me know if he sees anything in that picket message for victims. That saves me from writing a second-term motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u11	That is what my colleague for Legal Affairs will come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u12	That's right. It'll come back to me. Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs. He too has identified a number of issues which he will address.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u13	Madam President, thank you very much. I think the issues have already been distributed, so I do not need to repeat them now. I too would like to thank Members for their input. During the first period, several spokesmen stressed the importance of the ongoing maintenance of our rule of law. I fully agree with that. The tragically deceased Willem Witteveen, respected professor, former senator of the Labour Party, once characterized the rule of law as a house with many rooms, such a house that we know here from the city centre of The Hague or the Amsterdam canals and that it has been there for hundreds of years, which still serves, which stands on a solid foundation, well in the paint, but where sometimes an extra floor or rooftop chapel has been put on or where a wall has been broken away to make a room a little bigger. The same is true of our rule of law. It's not quiet property, it takes maintenance. Just as in the past new elements have been added to the rule of law, from the constitutions at the beginning of the nineteenth century through political rights and universal suffrage to the current system next year exactly a century ago. Similarly, adjustments and enlargements will continue to be necessary in order to keep our system up to date. Because the power of the rule of law lies in its relevance and practical significance. Mr Van Dam rightly stressed that the rule of law should not be abstraction, but that it is crucial that people can rely on the rule of law in their daily lives if they need it. For as a house is only walls with a roof on it, so a house is only a home, something where people live, when they feel safe and secure. And that brings me to legal protection, which Mr Van Nispen so emphatically asked for. He asked how the Minister now looks at that. For me, protection is the common thread that runs through the rule of law. And that comes back in several places. On the one hand, people must feel protected by a strong and powerful government, which is guarding our freedom, which sets standards, what is allowed and what is not allowed? If the rule of law is shocked, punishment for those who deserve to be punished, and if security is at stake and it is maintained, it is reprisal and recompense. My colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, has just referred to the steady decline in crime in our country. That's good in itself. But when I see how many of the offenders are repeated, repeated, and how much the feeling of justice of victims is constantly affected, we also have a whole world to win. Mr. Chairman. On the other hand, there is another form of protection under the rule of law. One could say that that is protection of the law in the classical sense of the word, protection against the too powerful government, which can sometimes be a little intrusive or unreasonable. Of course, we don't want that. That protection lies in the rule of law, in the fact that the government is also bound by laws and rules that we want to avoid arbitrary and abuse of power, and that there is an independent judge who can ultimately rule on the application of the laws and rules that we all establish here in this house. This will also allow the government to be re-flagged. Mr. Chairman. Access to justice is thus an essential element of our rule of law. That is why I would like to begin with the first issue on which many questions have been asked, namely legal aid. Your Chamber received my letter containing the outlines for the modernisation of the system of subsidised legal aid two weeks ago. Let me say straight away that access to justice is and remains the starting point. We don't have to worry about that in any jurisdiction. I want to be very clear about this, also in response to questions from Mr Krol, among others. If there is a need for a course of action or another procedure, that road will of course remain open. But a legal procedure is not always the best and the fastest way to find a solution. And in the end, that's what it's all about. It's all about solutions. That is why the core of my proposals is less procedures and more solutions. I want us all to try to solve problems of divorce, imminent dismissal, high-level debt and conflicts with public authorities as much as possible on the front, close to home and as soon as possible, and only if it is really necessary, if there is no other way, with legal proceedings. To do that, we take four steps. Step one. We're gonna give you a lot more information and better advice on the front. Just think of good example letters or help over the Internet, which everyone can use. But I also understand that in most cases there is a need for real contact with someone you can trust. I would therefore like to go to much more legal hours in the neighbourhood with aid workers who recognise the legal aspect of the problem and also find their way into the local provision of aid, where that legal and social area come together much more. Perhaps that is a bit like the ideas put forward earlier by Mr Van Nispen. Mr. Chairman. Step two. In case of a problem, we are going to look much more critically at what is the best solution. So we introduce a form of triage: light where it can, heavy where it has to. Compare it to care. You don't go there immediately to a specialist in the hospital, but first to the doctor, someone who is able to solve simple problems immediately, but also knows very well whether or not to refer you. Step three. The government is also going to look more critically at itself. You could say we're gonna be tough on ourselves. Whether it's late premiums, fines or student loans, as far as I'm concerned, the motto becomes: rather pick up the phone and send less of a letter on your feet. That's not noncommittal. As far as I am concerned, a public authority that does allow it to go to court and gets wrong has to do with paying higher costs. A helping hand will therefore be rewarding and a formalistic attitude will cost money. I understand that there are a lot of concerns and some criticisms of the plans, but I am glad to hear that the day before yesterday this section also seemed to have broad support. Mr. Chairman. Then step four. We put in the reward, the money we spend on legal aid, to get more. In addition, we introduce some news: legal aid packages. Those packages are layered. Not every layer has a lawyer at the bar. You should also be able to count on good legal advice, mediation or help in negotiations. We therefore expect compensation to be based on a solution to the problem and not so much on litigation. Mr Groothuizen asked what exactly is going on in these legal aid packages with regard to lawyers' compensation. Let me say something about social law. In this whole process, I have really become even more aware of the important role that social lawyers play. Sometimes they're the only ones who really listen when people are in trouble or are in trouble with themselves. They are involved and do everything they can to help those people out of need, even if that is not at the heart of their work. I therefore greatly appreciate the work of the social lawyer, who makes a very important contribution to the functioning of the rule of law. I therefore also think that compensation for their services should be increased, but we should also be critical in this whole review as to why they are sometimes also involved in work that can be done by others, even more so, sometimes. I therefore want to see their reward in the light of all the things that are going to change. The shift from the somewhat rigid fees to the legal aid packages is in stages. As soon as packages have been developed for a particular category of business, such as divorces or consumer cases, the new fee system will also enter into force. Mr Van Nispen was still concerned about the procurement of legal aid packages. Maybe I can say two things about that. First of all, we have not yet determined how we are going to shape this procurement and whether it is going to be a tender. I'm gonna focus on that. I am also going to talk to the lawyer about this and I would like to take their ideas along with it, for example the idea of working with preferred suppliers. Secondly, the purchase of legal aid packages is precisely intended to achieve a very good relationship between price and price, and I say this very emphatically, with thick stripes underneath it, quality. There will also be high demands on the necessary competences and expertise. Mr. Chairman. In my opinion there are also a lot of great advantages that this way of working will bring, also for the legal profession. Mr Van Dam mentioned this yesterday: they will no longer have to collect their own contribution, which is a complex burden for many agencies. Where legal aid packages are purchased on a large scale, which is the intention, legal aid providers are also assured of a certain volume of cases for a longer period of time and less time is needed for acquisition. Mr. Chairman. Mr Groothuizen and Mrs Van der Graaf wondered what exactly happened to their own contribution. As far as I am concerned, it will become more dependent on the costs of legal aid, and we will, of course, make sure that we avoid the people with the lowest incomes, for example by working with ceilings, with maximum amounts. The own contribution then gradually increases with income, reducing the gap with people who are just outside the system. Van der Meer also mentioned this: there is a kind of fall of the middle groups. There is too big a gap between those who do and those who do not fall within the legal aid system. Mr. Chairman. For those who cannot pay in one go, there will be a payment scheme, so that the payment can be spread, on top of the hardness clause already in the system. That, in my view, is also a way of ensuring access to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u14	I will give you the floor in a moment, Mr Van Nispen, but in the first term many Members of Parliament have asked questions about this and I understand that the committee agreed to hold separate consultations on this matter. Anyway, I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u15	We are certainly going to have a separate debate on this, because access to justice is the foundation of our rule of law. I can ask a lot of questions about this, but there will be a separate debate. It is about this minister's assumptions, because a number of improvements that the Minister has just mentioned, such as "look more closely at the role of the government," which has been said for decades, can of course also be applied within the current system. Where did the reports of Van der Meer, Barkhuysen and Wolfsen say: do you just overthrow the entire system? It has been warned everywhere that the system operates except for lawyers' fees. The Minister's letter is filled with false assumptions and false assumptions. For example, there would be an unbridled increase in costs and people would just sue for all this nonsense. They don't do that at all, because that costs them a lot of money in their own contributions and registry rights. For example, the Minister also says that lawyers are not paid for giving advice, but only when they are suing. That's all been knocked down. My fundamental question to the Minister is: why is he doing this? He knew what he was writing down, didn't he? And he really knows what's going on? He's the Secretary of Law, isn't he? Then you can't make this kind of mistake in your letter to the Chamber in which you change the whole system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u16	A brief response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u17	The letter with the contours is based on a number of reports that have appeared in the past, such as those of Wolfsen and Van der Meer, and on a long process in the past six months with many conversations with many people in and around the system. If the essence of those reports had been that it all worked well and that nothing had to happen, we would not have had so many reactions. Then those reports would have been a lot thinner too. Those reports do show that the system is squeaking and cracking. It also works on parts, but there is a lot to improve on the system. A lot of ideas about this have also been taken into account in the new contours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u18	The most acute problem, as demonstrated by the Wolfsen, Barkhuysen and especially Van der Meer reports, is the compensation of the lawyer. I was there when the Minister himself said that lawyers are not getting reasonable compensation. No one at all denies that this is happening anymore, and ultimately those who seek justice suffer from it. That's why we're doing all this. So if the Minister says that the fees are indeed not reasonable and that he hasn't done anything with the Van der Meer report for a year, he still doesn't solve anything with that. That report was very clear: there should be 127 million to ensure fair, reasonable fees for hardworking lawyers with the heart in the right place, who work a lot of hours for once a point of €108. So when he says: only when the number of cases has been reduced will budgetary room be created to ensure a reasonable remuneration. You're Secretary of Law. This can't be happening, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u19	Mr Van Nispen pointed out one of the problems in the current system, namely that compensation for lawyers is under pressure. I can only confirm that. That is precisely one of the reasons why we want to review the system. I would very much like that lawyer fee to be more up-to-date, but I think that we should look at the system more fundamentally. Over the last 15 or 20 years, we have seen a huge increase in the number of additions. There may be a slight dip in the last two or three years. That is what Mr van Nispen refers to, and that is what is pontifically stated in such a letter: it has been falling for two or three years now. Yeah, but if you look at the development over the past 15 to 20 years, you see something quite different. Indeed, there has been an increase of 42% since the year 2000. I think we should put an end to that. We need to see if we can come to less litigation and fewer attorneys' additions. If we succeed, then the fees of those lawyers can also be increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u20	It is good that the Minister recalls the latter, because that is a curious thing. The Minister said that the fees for lawyers, so just the income, the salary, are really too low. The lawyers don't actually get paid for what they do. So the work they do is not proportionate to what they get paid for. And then we're not going to reward them fairly until the system is functioning by the government. So the Minister says on the one hand that people are underpaid, but he really wants to maintain it until the time when the system he is going to design will work better. I think it's really weird that you're willing to keep something you think is unfair for a while. Can the Minister explain why he chooses to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u21	I'm not prepared to maintain that. I want to change that. That's the whole point of that letter. I think it should be different. I believe that we should fundamentally review the legal aid system. So I think we shouldn't leave it at that. I think we should see much more if we can come up with a lot more solving problems at the front, where they arise, rather than at the back of the courtroom with an added lawyer. If we succeed in this, and I really think that that is possible, then it will lead to better fees for legal aid providers, for lawyers. In fact, it simply leads to better solutions to the problems of people in need. And that's what it's my job to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u22	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u23	Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to justice. People's trust in the judiciary is particularly high, and rightly so. Dutch judges play an indispensable role in our rule of law. They work hard and they're expert and honest. However, the organisation of the judiciary is under great pressure. The high workloads, the finances, the ICT: they are serious concerns to which we must find answers together. I would also like to stress that all these problems are problems which will not be resolved overnight. It takes a long breath. We will have to, because without justice we can't. Mr Van Nispen referred to the workload and concerns expressed by the judges in the Counter-Light initiative. We ask a lot of judges. Every year there are piles of things coming in, often with complex questions. The question is how much we can reasonably ask of our judges. To map that well, a number of things are happening. The Council for Justice, the Public Prosecutor and the WODC are investigating the development of the workload of professionals in the criminal justice chain. So that goes through the chain. On top of that, the review which is now taking place on behalf of the Council of Ministers before the Court of Justice looks at whether cases have become heavier. This is about the whole area of work of the judiciary. Those are relevant questions. Because despite a falling inflow of cases, which we have been seeing for several years in a row, the workload does not seem to decrease. Despite the fact that more money has recently been invested in the introduction of professional standards, with more time per case being one of the starting points and therefore more judges have been adopted, this does not seem to have had the desired effect. It leads to questions that we need to find answers to, before we can say anything meaningful about the causes of experienced workload. Mr. Chairman. In addition, work pressure is not only something of the quantity and weight of things. Mr Van Nispen asked for that. I don't want to say too much about the conversation I had with the two judges of Opposite Light last Monday, because I don't think it's so fancy that you've talked about something in private right now. But what strikes me in general terms when I speak to judges is that they don't mind working hard at all. They like their job. What they do hate is that their professional autonomy is compromised, if they feel they have to turn production around in order to get a budget around, instead of being engaged in the integrity of their profession. Work pressure is therefore also linked to the way work processes are organised, management and support. This is also evident when we look at the differences between dishes and between different teams within them. For example, the Court of Justice visitation committee found the last time that has come back, namely in 2014 that the workload was not systematically too high throughout the organisation. The Visitation Committee then made recommendations for the workload to the court of the North Netherlands, specifically to the department of criminal law, and to the court of Rotterdam. It is therefore a good thing that a new visit is being made to all dishes, which also provides more specific information on where the workload is highest and what the causes are. As said, there is no single answer or one uniform approach to tackle the workload. Several ongoing studies can provide insight into and help with the question of who is on when. I would also like to look at what we can do with legislation to avoid unnecessarily complicated procedures. Think, for example, of reducing the endless written shackles in civil proceedings. Mr. Chairman. We are discussing the budget today, so I would also like to address the questions that have been raised about the financing of justice. The justice system needs a sound financial system and it is not there now. The lack of justice in 2018 has been addressed. That gives some air, but that doesn't make the problems go away. The multiannual estimate of the case law shows shortcomings, as Mr Van Nispen rightly pointed out. The question is: has there been too much cutting back on justice in recent years? I have taken up the budgets and the price agreements of recent years. The picture is that, for the past few years, the targets of the cabinet-Balkenende IV and the Rutte II cabinet have in any case been lifted by various investments. Balkenende IV's mission was included in the 2012-2014 price agreement with 15 million operating savings, but the same price agreement included an investment of 34 million. At that time, also of the judiciary, the choice was to fill in Rutte II's mandate, of almost 9%, largely with the benefits from KEI. The case-law has been postponed for five years to fulfil this task, but, as you know, there is still no idea of the proceeds of digitisation, while other public authorities and bodies have made a proper contribution to getting state finances in order. The 9% target was no higher than that of other organisations. At the same time, over the past five years, we have been busy investing in KEI, professional standards, workload, friction and new laws and regulations. In other words, on balance, the case law has been relatively flexible in recent years. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the question now arises as to what justice itself can do to improve the financial system. We are now working hard to get a clear picture of the possible ways of resolving the case by means of an investigation. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to Mr Van Dam. I see him at the interrupting microphone, so maybe he wants to ask about it, but I want to say something about the PxQ funding. That funding is based on payment per case closed. I think this is a good starting point. It also brings a bit of objectivity in the whole: more things, than more money; less things, than less money. Well, in my view, there's a bit to improve on that system. For example, I think it is wise to take out the costs that are not related to the amount of items from that PxQ funding. This makes funding more stable for justice and it is a first good step towards a healthy and sustainable situation. Mr. Chairman. Is it all woe to the courts? No, definitely not. For example, registry fees for low category claims, between €500 and €2,500, are substantially reduced. Your Chamber has insisted on this on several occasions. I am looking in the direction of Mr Grootehuizen and Mr Van Dam: compliments for your perseverance and perseverance. But also the case law itself, bailiffs and SME-Netherlands have insisted on it. I am glad that we can now achieve this positive development. New forms of justice have been launched in many places in this country: neighbourhood judges, court judges and prosecutors of debts. It is my ambition and that of justice to ensure that it increases the social effectiveness of justice. Low-threshold, comprehensibility and solution orientation are key words. The experimental law that Mrs Van der Graaf asked for and which will bring with it more possibilities if it is adopted is an important support. You can expect that law from me at the beginning of next year. As far as I am concerned, Mr Groothuizen's desire to express judgments in an understandable language is entirely in line with this line of work. I think it's a nice idea. I understand that the case law agrees with that and I make a commitment that I will talk to them about this. Mrs Van der Graaf asked about recovery law, also such a development that can contribute to social effectiveness. It offers victim and perpetrator the opportunity to come to recovery. Of course, crime is also a punishment, but that alone does not always achieve that recovery. We see that mediation has now acquired a permanent place in criminal law. This budget is now also structurally financed by my ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u24	I am already inspired by my colleague's motion on the understandable language. In this respect, I would like to ask the Minister the following. We are talking a lot here about financing, product financing, output financing and the whole rat flats. I also spoke to those Vice-Presidents last week, and I have a very strong feeling that these people feel like some kind of production chicken in a battery, in order to use a clear language. In part, I fully agree with the Minister that the public is money and that you must have systems that allow you to see if Judge A ends up with the sides and Judge B doesn't. The same applies to lawyers, prosecutors and so on. But what is the Minister going to do in the near future to bring back that sense of public value, where these people do these kinds of jobs? If you finance justice as a cookie factory, you get cookie bakers. And we don't want that, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u25	I think it's important to separate two things. I fully share the concern of Mr Van Dam, who says that people don't get more excited when you say to them: this is the production you have to deliver. That doesn't do justice to the court's business either. In this respect, I would very much like to sit down at the table, including with the Council for Justice, because I am concerned that there is a growing feeling where judges say: those are the things that we are being dealt with. This also has to do with the way in which they are led, with the support and with the translation of the financing arrangements as we make them nationwide, but that does not necessarily have to be the case. It is also not the case in education that a teacher is paid for how many students are in her classroom, whereas that is the way schools are paid for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u26	I would like to reply to Mr Van Dam's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u27	The second is that I want to look at what is a fair and sensible way of financing the case. We all need to have an agreement on how much money the judiciary gets annually, and I do not think that a link to the amount of cases that justice does is strange in principle and would also like to keep as a basis, but we are going to get some crazy things out of it. So that it is for the full hundred percent one-on-one linked to the amount of things, I myself have the impression that it has gone a bit crazy. So I'd like to go to a more clever way of financing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u28	Let me start by saying that that is good news. I am now going to apologize for the fact that, after something about understandable language, I am going to start with the PMJ model, but that is very important. That's what's under here. I asked yesterday if you could take a good look at the PMJ model. 'Cause that's not right. I even told the Minister of Justice, "Be Obelix for once." But when I read the answers, I thought more of that bard being chained to a tree when the village starts to fight. 'Cause what does that say? Yes, there are alternative models and actually the PMJ model is doing just as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u29	What is PMJ?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u30	The Prognosis Model Judicial Chains. On this basis, the figures on which the financing is calculated shall be calculated. So that model isn't enough. It's behind schedule and it's not realistic. My question to the Minister for Legal Protection is whether he is prepared to tackle this model and adopt the recommendations made by Mr Van den Berg on this subject: faster, controlled by experts and more widely so that it actually does what it has to do, which is to make a reasonable prediction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u31	Some things are, by definition, complicated. Then we'll all do our best to make it understandable, but if anyone else is watching this broadcast, I'm afraid they've dropped out. Maybe they'll turn it back on later. I'm sure I'm prepared. Look, a model is just a model. I'm gonna say that right away. It is as good a prediction as possible about the development that is to take place. That is the best thing we have right now. The PMJ model relates not only to justice, but also to the prison system, the police and the prosecution. That affects the entire judicial chain. If we can do better by looking at it again with scientists and fine-tuning it further, I am very open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u32	You will then have to stop me, Madam President, because then I will have my six questions and leave the rest to my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u33	Stop you, what an assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u34	Yeah, I know. I found it striking. I was very pleased to hear the Minister say that working pressure is not only about hours but also about people's participation, that they should not feel like a cookie factory. I have made a rather extensive point of this in my contribution, also to say that it is precisely about greater participation in the workplace. I was talking about the police, about more participation in the schedules. I was talking about the judges. I have talked about detention staff, precisely about increased participation, so that the workplace sounds more transparent. I found it interesting in the answer to the questions that the ministers seem not to have noticed that part of my speech at all, while they were given my piece afterwards. But that is something that goes in one ear and out the other ear, and they do not see that this also requires policies from them. So I would still like to ask them how it is possible that this part has not been noticed at all, when I have asked four or five questions about it. So what do the ministers seriously want to do to bring about a little more democratisation, to get a little more influence from the workplace in the decisions, so that it is not just the management language but really a kind of reflection of what the staff feel in the workplace?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u35	I think Mrs Buitenweg is making a real caricature of it now. In answering a number of questions which I think affect the workplace immediately, I have been eager to indicate that it is happening. For example, in the prison system, the workplace, the people themselves involved, is much more involved in making the schedules. If I have this kind of discussion with the Council of Justice, I am sure that these discussions will also take place at the level of the courts and the sections below, with the people who have to do the real work. Every funding model that you choose to do............................................................................................................................................................... The advantage of what PxQ funding is going to be called is that the funding moves along as the number of cases increases. That has great advantages. The downside is, of course, that if it moves the other way, it gets less. The additional disadvantage is that the way of financing you meet between the Empire and justice in my view is too often and too explicitly translated one-on-one into the people who have to do the real work, while that is not necessary at all. I want to talk about how we can break that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u36	But Mrs Buitenweg would like to explain exactly what she meant by the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u37	I asked for more reflection from the cabinet on this call for more democratisation and what it is going to do about it. That was my question. I understand if that may not be entirely right now, but perhaps it will be possible to come back to that at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u38	I think that is a rather generic call for more democratisation. I am very much in favour of involving the workplace, through participation councils, in appointments, you name it all. All kinds of agreements have been made about it. There is a legislative proposal in the making that also brings about a number of things. But we are now pretending that all decisions on these kinds of organizations are taken without talking to the people who have to do the real work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u39	That internal democratisation is indeed necessary, but I think it would be a good idea if we talked about it separately. The NVvR also has good ideas about it. It is a pity that we do not have a separate debate on the budget for justice, as the SP has already proposed. In that respect, that's a shame. But the minister was right when he said judges are willing to work hard. What stings isn't just the collective bargaining thing. Let me take a very specific look at the Minister. That has taken a very long time, and it has already expired before the Minister finally negotiates it. That's too bad. But what stings most is that judges feel affected in their independence because they have to run production. That is said to counsel: you will have to deal with 5% more cases, because we are heading for a negative budget again. All courts and courts have surrendered a negative budget for the coming year. What does this say? And how is the Minister going to ensure that not only the importance of the money is put first, but that there is peace in the organisation, so that quality is put first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u40	It's always about quality. And, of course, we expect things to be done. I also think speed is part of quality. We also talk about lead times and waiting lists here. I think that if those who seek justice have to wait too long for a ruling, we have a point. So that there's some pressure on things every now and then, I understand very well. This is also the case in the case law of these organisations. What I want to do is to see whether the funding of justice as a whole is now adequate. That's what it's all about. Then you look at the numbers of cases, but the numbers of cases are falling. That's not gonna happen anymore, but they're running back. So the question is, where does this workload come from? For example, this can be due to the gravity of things. I'm very willing to look at that. That's exactly what we're doing right now. This is the kind of thing that I am taking on board in the new discussions that are taking place on next year's budgeting and beyond, or at least the price agreements that are going to run in the deep round.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u41	Please continue. There will also be a separate debate on this, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u42	Then I'll get to the victims. Crime victims deserve a strong position in our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u43	Before you continue, Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u44	In my contribution, I have asked the Minister a large number of questions about a broadcast of Nieuwsuur. I must now take advantage of one of my questions, but frankly the questions as I have seen them have not really been answered. Because what I want to know is what the minister actually thinks about three people speaking in that broadcast, a knowledgeable professor, someone from the trade union with knowledge...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u45	That's what you have in your contribution...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u46	...and by all accounts a judge with, may I assume, knowledge of cases, confirming that there is an extension to a multiple chamber. Which means that three judges take one criminal case off, where those three judges could have done three single cases and thus three victims could have been helped more quickly. I do not understand why the Minister is now saying: I am only going to the Council for justice. No, may I assume that these people have been contacted? And I want to know, what do you think of this? What do you think of this situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u47	If that really happens so consciously, then I entirely disapprove of it. I find it unacceptable, not only in the case-law but in every organisation, but perhaps even more in the case-law, if this kind of practice really were to take place. I also immediately contacted him about whether this image was recognized and the answer was "no." Then I said: but then I want to find out if it's true. That's under investigation right now, and when that investigation is done, I'll give it to you. But I also think we should look out for one television broadcast to show that it is all wrong. We really need to find out. If this turns out to be the case, then we have a big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u48	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u49	Mr President, the victims. It is of the utmost importance for victims that they feel heard, protected and supported. As I said in my introduction, this is also important for the acceptance of trust in our rule of law. I set out my course for strengthening the position of the victims in the multiannual agenda. Questions have been asked about a number of aspects of this. A topical issue at this point is the coverage of victims' footage after accidents. The media have paid a great deal of attention to this, and rightly so in my view. With Mrs Van Toorenburg, I find it morally reprehensible that defenseless people should be filmed at the most vulnerable moments and that these images should be shared with sensation in a manner of speaking, rather than simply giving aid workers the space, possibly putting a hand in and respecting the privacy of victims. I look forward to hearing Mrs Van Toorenburg's own-initiative proposal, but I would not like to sit still in the meantime. I would like to see what we can do to strengthen the clear social standard that Mrs Van Toorenburg and I are expressing in this debate, and I would like to see whether that will then lead to a change in behaviour. Mrs Van Toorenburg herself made a useful suggestion. I want to take a serious look at that. Mr. Chairman. Victims often experience the trial as a vulnerable moment. It's when they meet the suspect again or when the next of kin face to face with a possible perpetrator for the first time. It must be well arranged if a victim, for example, wants to be protected from the suspect. It is therefore important to improve communication with victims about the facilities available. I welcome the Council's tour of justice. The Council says that the basic facilities are there, but that it only needs to be made clearer that they can be used. The provision of services to victims will also have to be brought up to date so that all victims, if they so wish, can be placed in a separate victim's room. The Court of Justice has made clear rulings on this matter to the courts. I'll stay on top of it for the coming period. Not only during the criminal trial, attention is paid to the victim's position, but also while serving the sentence by the perpetrator and afterwards. For example, the current criminal law offers opportunities to impose a restraining order on a parolee offender. For example, a housing ban can be imposed in the form of a location ban with the use of an anklet to check compliance. Now something's come up. At the beginning of this year, the possibility of imposing a ban on residence has been extended. A residence ban can now also be imposed following detention or TBs. I want to see how this works out and wait for the results. I think that further enlargement, on which Mrs Van Toorenburg hinted, might be a little premature in that regard. However, I see it as my task to ensure that the possibilities of imposing such a ban are also sufficiently known to the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary, so that they are applied in practice. Mr. Chairman. In addition, I am currently talking about this same subject with municipalities, parole and prison institutions to see how we can shape the housing of ex-convicts in another place. If ex-cons can't go back to their old hometown, where can they go? I believe that Mr van Oosten has hinted that better agreements should be made between municipalities to ensure that they bear each other's burdens more. If a prisoner cannot return to Rotterdam, Rotterdam will need to be able to contact another municipality. This also means that sooner or later Rotterdam will be called upon by a mayor elsewhere in the country. Another important point I like to mention is the importance of making a declaration. Reporting and filing a report always makes sense. As Mr Grapperhaus has just pointed out, the policy is aimed at continuing to promote this. An important addition is that the victim is provided with information about the rights he has during the declaration. Victims have been granted a certificate of rights since 1 April 2017, which includes all the rights that they can exercise during the criminal trial. In order to better understand which victims need additional protection, a structural assessment of the protection needs of victims has been carried out since 1 June this year. That is not a burden on the police, because we have made extra money available for this. With that, they can do the job. That is also a direct response to Mr Krol, who asked whether there should be a picketing system for victims' lawyers. In that declaration of rights I have just mentioned, there is also the right to free assistance from an attorney. It may also be that there is already a need for support at this stage. Victims are reminded of this way of working. Victims can go to Victim Support Netherlands at any time. They can provide the victim with legal advice free of charge and also help the victim emotionally. That is why I do not think it is necessary to make such a separate picket notification mandatory. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs. Chicken. In line with the general call for a declaration, I have also done so very emphatically in the case of reports of sexual abuse within the community of Jehovah's Witnesses. I then, at the request of several spokesmen, called for the Community itself to be made more open. I've had several conversations with the community administration, but not with the desired effect. Hence, an investigation into abuse within this community has now begun. Mrs Kuik asked a few questions about the design of this study. She asked, among other things, if that was too narrow. I hope I can reassure her with a brief look at the research questions that the WODC has prepared. The WODC will investigate what is known of the Jehovahs when it comes to the rules, the structures, the ideals or other factors that may hinder the reporting of cases of sexual abuse. This question specifically concerns those underlying patterns to which Mrs Kuiken referred. We will also involve international research that provides insight into those underlying patterns. We are also looking at measures that, for example, in Australia and the United Kingdom have led to the breaking of these patterns. Mrs Kuik has also asked for an investigation into the obligation to report to victims in religious communities, the possibility of a compulsory vog and the imposition of a professional and ministerial ban on religious leaders. We're dealing with a complicated subject. On the one hand, we see the reports of sexual abuse within religious communities that lead to indignation and great concern, and rightly so. On the other hand, we have the separation of Church and State, which limits the possibility for the government to intervene in these kinds of communities. Now, of course, there are targets. The first lead is criminal. Sexual abuse is a serious criminal offence that must be traced and prosecuted. Wherever possible, efforts should be made to prevent it. That's what the D.A.'s office and the police are for, and they're heavily committed to that. That's exactly why I called the victims of sexual abuse within the Jehovah community to report it. I am pleased that these declarations have been received and are being taken seriously. I have also promised you to examine in this direction the possibility of extending the obligation of reporting, as it may apply to the science of sexual abuse rather than to the most serious offences, as is the case at present. This research also involves the experience of reporting obligations in sectors such as care and education. The second is the use of preventive instruments such as the Vog. Mrs Kuik has requested that we examine whether we cannot impose this instrument on religious communities. That is a difficult and really unpassable road. The obligation of a vog can only be imposed in sectors regulated in one way or another by a government. I refer to research, childcare and the taxi industry where either inspection or licensing is carried out. For non-regulated sectors, the government can only recommend and facilitate the vog. I'll keep doing that. By the way, I can tell you that other religious communities and churches, such as the Roman Catholic Church and the Protestant Church, have now made such a vog mandatory for a large group of their employees and volunteers. Then I come to the use of the most serious instrument in your speech, namely the prohibition of employment and the prohibition of duties. In the case of certain offences such as serious sex offences, a professional or official ban may be imposed by the criminal court. Research carried out by the WODC shows that this happened about 123 times between 1995 and 2008, with one case known of a cleric who was banned from the profession. In the light of these findings, I will also investigate further the possibilities of imposing a criminal ban on persons working within churches. I take that into account in the answer to the question you asked. I would like to stress that it is still important for victims to press charges so that they can be investigated and prosecuted. It will also only then be possible to work with the instruments you have just cited, namely a professional ban or a voluntary ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u50	Then I'm going to see Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u51	It was okay to wait for answers to the questions about victims. I already have a question about the housing ban that the Minister mentioned at the beginning. I always feel a little caterpillar Never enough when it comes to this, but I keep hammering on it anyway. I have been the initiator of lifelong surveillance, but I know that this cannot be imposed on everyone. There's got to be something going on with whoever wants you under surveillance for life. That doesn't apply to all of them. There are also people who come out of prison and act exemplary, but just go live next to those who have done something horrible to them. I want that person to be banned from living there. That is why I would like the Minister to look at the example in Belgium. It may only be possible there for 20 years, but I do not believe at all that anyone will move to live with the next of kin after that. That makes me ask the Minister if he wants to look at this again, because lifelong surveillance or conditional release does not cover the load.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u52	I'm very willing to look at how our southern neighbors are doing. I have always understood that our arrangement is very similar to that of the Belgians, where, by the way, the Belgians are limited in time and ours is not. But if you say that there are other advantages to this, then I will look into it. On that basis, you can expect a response from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u53	Fine. Apparently it's true that it's being Maximized, but again, I don't think anyone thinks after twenty years: I'm going back now. The reasoning, including in the Minister's documents, is: we already have something, that is lifelong supervision. But we only have that for a specific group. I think that is important and that is why I look forward to it. The Minister has written something before, but I think that should be a little more thorough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u54	I'll come back to the picket service report to lawyers assisting victims. I am glad that it has at least the attention of the Minister, but it is not enough for me. I understand now that they're getting a flyer. But I'm not talking about people who just come in here and press charges. I'm talking about people who have fallen victim to a head case. I hear from a lot of lawyers who support such victims that it would be very helpful if those people were warned earlier, not with a leaflet, but with a report like that for perpetrators. They all tell me that the unsub has a thousand times more protection than the victim.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u55	I take this point seriously, of course. Maybe I can take it with me. There is currently an investigation into how the referral of Victim Aid Netherlands to the legal profession is proceeding. I expect I can have that investigation here in your room in a few months. If that proves what you're saying, I'll take it seriously. I am not thinking of a few months or necessarily a motion in this debate, but then I can give it a serious place. I'll pay extra attention to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u56	I was just a little happy and I'm getting a little happier now. We're gonna see if I'm really happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u57	Thank you. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u58	I would like to thank the Minister for his broad commitment to reporting and reporting and his commitment to look also at the professional ban, the ban on employment. Since I hadn't quite understood it, I had another question at this point. Is this part of the investigation that is being carried out on the obligation to report and report? Is that running at the same time or is it supplementary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u59	It's not going to work now, so it's really a supplement. Maybe it can go along with that. If we can't do that, we have to do something parallel. At least you have my word that I will take it. I can let you know how we're gonna do that. Perhaps that can still be inserted. I think it is too early to make a commitment about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u60	Thank you. Then we will hear about this in the information when it comes to it, but thank you again. I'm happy about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u61	Thank you. The last...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u62	Indeed, finally, the issue of privacy, which has been the subject of a number of questions. Under the rule of law, legal protection also includes the protection of privacy, of course enshrined in the Constitution, in international treaties and very recently in the regulations of the European Union, the GDPR. The government has an important task when it comes to that privacy protection, both the protection of privacy between government and citizens, you might say vertical........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This so-called horizontal privacy is becoming increasingly important in the light of many technological developments. I will therefore come in January with a cabinet vision on the protection of horizontal privacy, which I will also go into in detail, in the direction of Mr Van Oosten, on Mr Koopmans' own-initiative paper on this subject. My responsibility for the protection of privacy also includes, in particular, the care for a good general legal system of protection of personal data. With the introduction of the GDPR and the entry into force of the implementing law, we have taken important steps in this area. In January, I will send a letter to your Chamber about the first experience with that implementing law. The GDPR has strengthened and extended existing citizens' rights in relation to personal data protection, and strengthened obligations associated with the processing of such data by others. Now there has been a lot of talk about the GDPR, and perhaps a lot of grumbling, in the sense that the GDPR bans all kinds of things and provides organisations and companies with a lot of extra work. Sometimes that is the case, but I also think that this picture needs a nuance, because under the GDPR more than sometimes can be adopted, I also say in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij, who had some questions on that point. It is really not forbidden for schools to take pictures of students, if they ask permission to do so once in a while, periodically, for example once a year. And the GDPR follows on several points which also applied under the old Personal Data Protection Act. So if people now say they have a lot of extra burdens, then I cannot escape the impression that sometimes it is also a matter of late maintenance. With regard to questions on the relief of civil society organisations, on which the SGP had previously tabled a motion, research has shown that these organisations mainly need good information. What is allowed and what is not allowed, what things do you have to ask permission for and how do you do it in a practical way? More and more, the Dutch Data Protection Authority provides for this. I will pay particular attention to this and ensure that this kind of practical information is brought to the attention of these civil society organisations as well. Mr. Chairman. I have two further amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u63	Before you continue, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u64	A justified point that the Minister makes is that sometimes really extra information can help to remove misunderstandings, but on the other hand it can also become a bit of a mantra that rejects all objections. So to what extent is there really a sharp look at whether there are real bottlenecks, where more is needed than information? When will that be discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u65	That is the motion that I believe Mr Van der Staaij has tabled. I think I can give you a first look at that in the first quarter of 2019, where I am quite prepared to distinguish between identified bottlenecks. So, on the one hand, these are bottlenecks that we all say: yes, but they are actually relatively easy to solve; do you have to do something else or do you have to ask for a promise once in a while? I do not think that is a huge burden, especially when it comes to confidential personal data of people. On the other hand, these are points where it really pinches, for example an infringement of your way of working, which is hard to come out of. Then we have to look at that law again, because, as my predecessor, Stef Blok, has already said, it is important to put that kind of thing back in Europe. We cannot change the GDPR in this Parliament. If you want to adapt it, you have to do it in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u66	Then I think there are two amendments by Mrs Buitenweg. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u67	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u68	No. 18 and 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u69	I would like to begin with the amendment to item No. 18. That's about the Dutch Association for Justice. I would advise against that amendment. Not only because of the cover, but also because I think the NVvR has two roles. A role is that of professional association with the aim of advising on, for example, new laws and regulations. They also keep a subsidy for that. The other objective is that of union and professional association. I think it is slowly but surely very good not only for this professional association, but also for a lot of other professional associations that you will then see if you can collect that part from your members by means of contributions. Mr President, I come to the second point...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u70	For my understanding of the previous point: isn't that where fees are already levied? The Minister is now suggesting that no contribution will be paid. That's the case. But I understand that the Minister actually thinks that the fee should be raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u71	That's one way to catch that. In our view, the subsidy of almost five tonnes is very reasonable for the tasks they do, also for the work for the legislator and for advising on legislation and regulations. I find that very valuable and good work. For the other part, which falls away, you have to make or other choices within your organization.Of course, you can do that; by doing so you bring the costs down or look critically at your contribution. But that is a discussion that the NVvR will have to discuss with its members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u72	I hope to be able to put a very brief question on this as a co-author of the amendment. Does the Minister think that this is the right time, given all the issues involved in justice, including the internal debate on democratisation? Is this the time to cut back on that grant?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u73	Is this the time? Last year we made that proposal. That is what Parliament said at the time: we think it is too early, give it a little more time. Those days have come to an end. I do not think it is unreasonable that we should ask a union which also performs the function of a trade union to get that part from its members at least. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the CCV, the Centre for Crime Prevention and Security. I think that's a good club, doing a very valuable job. We also had a discussion on this last year. In addition to the 2 million made available for the current year, I have managed to make additional funds available within the budget for at least this cabinet period, i.e. 1.5 million for next year and 2020 and 1 million for 2021. In any case, this will enable a good part of the basic subsidy to be maintained. I realize that the decline in the budget, which is still in it, is putting pressure on the organization. But I also think it is not excluded that they themselves are able to withdraw part of their resources from the market through a kind of second or third-party money flow. They are now known. Civil society organisations and companies are also very much in favour of the CCV. In my view, this can at least cover part of that decline.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u74	Mr President, first of all, on a point of order. I have no more deadlines, otherwise I would have a big fight with my highly valued colleague Van Toorenburg. But I'd like to ask you a few more questions about the CCV. Isn't there some space left in your understandable but tight approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u75	I see everyone nodding yes, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u76	It doesn't have to apply to everyone. You can only do it for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u77	Do you still have time to ask your question? Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u78	I understand the tight financial framework, because I have also seen what the Minister has said in writing, so I am not going to ask any more questions here either. Do I have to interpret it in such a way that you are going to make an effort for the following? There are all kinds of activities in the public sector that the CCV could do. You want me to find it in that corner? Would you then be prepared to intercede in the hole that is perhaps now, so that something can be done? Another point: I would very much like you to keep us informed, because it is also a bit of a gamble whether the CCV will succeed. That organization is just worth a lot to me. In other words, not so much this organisation as prevention is worth a lot to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u79	I'm underlining that last one, too. With what you can prevent, you also avoid a lot of suffering and costs later in the chain. I see possibilities of my own. I am also quite willing to work with the Ministry to see what is possible now with the CCV. Think, for example, of the many public-private partnerships that have emerged in the context of the undermining approach. I can imagine that the CCV would then be hired for a job or for assignments that could cover part of it. If you give me the time to work on this over the next few months, I can inform you about the summer recess in about five or six months and what that means for the CCV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u80	There is an interruption by Mr Van Oosten. I would just like to say that if there are any more questions, you can ask them. For it is indeed not quite the intention that you should go home with a number of questions later. It's a budget. I'm trying to steer it right, but you guys aren't supposed to like anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u81	In response to your request, which I have agreed to, I have been very economical. So I've been saving up, and I had calculated so much that I could ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u82	I'm sure you can ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u83	My question is actually quite simple. It was Mr Van Dam's question. The Minister now responds and says: well, I want to think about it and I really want to see if we can hire the CCV or anything else. I would like it to be more specific. Because, you know, the CCV is an organisation specifically focused on prevention. The Minister for Legal Protection also has prevention in the portfolio. Last year we tabled a very broad amendment to ensure that the decline in finances is prevented. The government itself also actively refers to this centre. I know. I'm sure the Minister knows that too. So I would have liked to have a more concrete commitment on what the Minister for Legal Protection can offer in the direction of the CCV, other than financially. I would also like to make it very clear with the Minister that we will be kept informed about the discussions and activities in this area, because the organisation is so valuable to us all and we have highlighted this repeatedly in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u84	I totally understand that. Last year we stood here defending a budget that we had taken over for part of the previous cabinet. I was actually very pleased with the amendment that was tabled at the time. I've also had to see what the space is for years to come. It's just a little bit less at this point than we all might have wanted. That's why there's something like a slight run-back in it. I really see opportunities, including for the CCV, to generate assignments from security projects in the regions and things that are going to run there. This cabinet has also made extra money available for this purpose. I would very much like to look, together with the CCV, at what the possibilities are and to come back to you before the summer, as I promised Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u85	Thank you for that. I don't know if there's a combination. For the summer is of course a problem for an organisation, because the budget runs from January to January. They do a lot of important work, for example for the Roma girls. Secretary of State Harbers has a lot to do with that. Do you see an option to commit part of the money and then get to work on it in the coming months? Otherwise, there's such a hard hatchet on January 1st. Does the Minister see my problem? And maybe he can make some kind of combination in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u86	If I had seen that, I might have included it in my budget. I honestly don't see that. By the way, this development does not come as a surprise to the CCV either. We have always been very open, also to the Director of the Office, and have always made known what the financial developments are. So I do not see any possibility of doing that again from our budget, but I would like to sit down with them to see what the possibilities are for you to acquire tasks that will allow you to mitigate some of that decline in resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u87	And inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u88	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u89	I think you've run out of subjects. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, I shall suspend for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u90	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u91	Thank you, Madam President. I had already told you this morning that I am responding in three blocks: asylum and migration in the Netherlands, then asylum and migration internationally, and finally trafficking in human beings and prostitution. Certainly asylum and migration in the Netherlands cover a whole category of sub-topics and a lot of questions raised by one of the political groups. Mr. Chairman. In the case of asylum and migration in the Netherlands, it is very often in society, but also here in this house, about everything that has to do with asylum, about things such as how we get more control over the influx, how we achieve a flexible effective asylum system and how we get more return, but there are also very other reasons for coming to the Netherlands. This applies to the largest number of people migrating to the Netherlands. This is about finding work here, being a citizen of knowledge, finding love in the Netherlands and temporarily studying here, sometimes followed by a job in the Netherlands. In short, these are all very nice reasons. This is often underexposed, but fortunately there was also a question in this budgetary treatment about regular migration, knowledge migration. I would therefore like to stress it at the beginning. Mr Azmani asked what else the cabinet would do in the area of knowledge migration. I would also like to emphasise here that the cabinet has a commitment aimed at further removing barriers for knowledge migrants to come to the Netherlands. This benefits our business. We need well-educated people who want and can help the economy of the Netherlands as well. The extra effort we are making is that we are now looking mainly at start-ups who are really still in the start-up phase and are not yet able to pay the salaries paid to knowledge migrants in order to meet the conditions for the knowledge migrants scheme. You know the principle of start-ups: very often the last dime is spared there and cut on your own salary to invest it further in the start-up or scale-up. Together with the fellow executives of EZK and SZW, we are looking at ways to make this kind of start-ups more able to attract international talent. I would also point out that the Netherlands, fortunately, is also able to become increasingly attractive for knowledge and talent. In recent years more and more talented people have come to the Netherlands: international students, knowledge migrants and innovative entrepreneurs. For example, in 2017, the IND issued a residence permit to almost 14,000 knowledge migrants, an increase of about 20%. For the time being, we can see that increase continue in 2018. I believe that this policy also responds to the need for highly skilled staff in the Dutch economy. But this was the only question asked about knowledge migration. So I wanted to move on to another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u92	My question concerns this subject. I had made it a little broader, including for regular economic migration policy and also for the future. Mr Van Dijk also indicated on behalf of the SP the day before yesterday that we must learn lessons from labour migration in the 1960s and 1970s. I also know that there is an interest in looking at circular migration from D66. That was also a bit of the direction I wanted to take. Would the Secretary of State, while he is in consultation with the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, also be prepared to explore how to make economic migration policy more future-proof? Indeed, the scheme currently in place, with, for example, paid employment with employment permits, does not really provide the right incentives to encourage circular, i.e. temporary migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u93	In itself it is, because it happens of course. Knowledge migration schemes are also very often circular. Students who come to study here do not always stay here, although they often find that very nice jobs can be found here too. We also had a complicated debate earlier this year on circular migration as included in the integrated migration agenda. In it, circular migration was linked to return. In doing so, I have made the reluctance of the Chamber mine for a moment, but I also indicated at that time that the cabinet will continue to explore whether this type of model is going to work. That investigation is ongoing. I do believe that it will then be made a little more concrete, to see which parts of economic circular migration we would have to explore further. Because if we take the full width, we're gonna investigate everything, and I don't know if the whole Chamber wants to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u94	In my view, the current arrangements are mainly aimed at permanent residence. There are incentives that make it easier for people to stay here permanently or at least go for a permanent residence permit instead of a temporary one. If you look at future deficits in certain sectors, you want a migration model based on points allocation, which is circular and less fixed, and where there is also less claim to social security than at present. I therefore tempt the Secretary of State to consider a future-proof system of regular economic migration. I think at least part of the Chamber is interested in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u95	That's the temptation I like to deal with. We can indeed include these kinds of themes in exploration and research. So, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u96	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u97	Mr. Chairman. I come now to the matters that were more critically approached from the Chamber. I'll start with the IND. We have been asked, for example, about the additional resources and about the budget cuts. At the very end, I will also come to the advice on the amendment that has been put forward for this purpose. Following Question Time, I believe that two weeks ago I would also like to explain once again that the cabinet does not intend to cut back on the IND. It is true that the budget available for the IND is adjusted at fixed times in the year, including the expected inflow. The amount available in the budget for 2019 is therefore lower than in 2018 due to the lower inflow forecast we had at the beginning of the year when budget preparation began. But it is common practice that, at fixed times in the year, starting with the Spring Note, it is again checked whether the available budget is sufficient on the basis of the then applicable insights. If the expected inflow gives rise to this, the IND's budget may be adjusted to the fixed budgetary moments in the year, for example from its own reserves or from the asylum reserves. We know that there is a constant fluctuation in numbers in immigration. That's why we created those reserves. We can act on that. Then what I said in Question Time remains that we do not intend to limit the number of posts at the IND. On the contrary, I have already explained that the number of vacancies has increased by 120 this year. Those places have been filled and, on top of that, a further 78 vacancies have been opened up in order to reduce the delays incurred and to shorten the lead times. It's just gonna stay in place. So, although you see a cut in the budget, we are going to repair it by Spring's note and the formation will continue to grow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u98	I have a brief question for the Secretary of State. It is now so arranged that if the inflow decreases, the budget for the IND will also decrease. Wouldn't it be much better to take the lead time of the procedure as a criterion for whether or not to allocate more money to the IND? If the lead times increase when the inflow decreases, I think that's about the situation we're in right now. It's very unwise to make less money available to the IND.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u99	Now the lead times are also a result of the inflow rates, but I can follow Mr Van Ojik a long way. I can imagine that this "for an outsider" I wanted to say even for a Member of Parliament seems a bit fluctuating. It is, however, the system that we have been using for many years within the entire asylum chain. But the fluctuations in the inflow and outflow have grown much larger in recent years than we saw in the years to, grab him, 2015. It is not the best system for stability. It is the system that we are using now and in which we have the asylum reserve. We know we can recover from that when the influx goes up. This leads to a certain degree of stability being guaranteed for the IND. For the time being, I think we can work this out. If you look at the longer term, we can also see if we can come up with systems in which you have less to do with fluctuations in the financial sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u100	There's a lot of unrest at the IND. There are long waiting times. Yesterday we even read in the newspaper the story of a whistleblower who was forced to break the law. Because of the rush and the targets, he had to re-evaluate files, while that's not allowed at all. Is it not really a good idea to take a good look at the system of financing, so that it can become more stable and less swinging, as the Secretary of State himself says?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u101	I think that is what I said just now in response to Mr Van Ojik. Furthermore, of course, a multitude of things have been set in motion at the IND itself. For example, they are going to train people for multiple functions, so that you can easily put people on a different type of case when you see that more people are needed elsewhere. That is an example, but there are a lot of things that we can gain in flexibility within the organisation of the IND.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u102	Mr Van Dijk already referred to the case of the whistleblower and the fact that he had to put the name of another colleague under the file in case of objections. I understand that's under investigation. That's specifically about the status holders, I suppose. Can the Secretary of State say whether that investigation also includes whether it is included in the asylum procedure and not just with status holders? These are people who have temporary status, but what about people who still have to get status or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u103	We're gonna have a full investigation of what happened or what didn't happen. So it depends on what we find. If Mr Voordewind means to ask "are you fully in that investigation and will you examine all aspects?', Then my answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u104	Then I assume that we will not only receive an investigation and a report to the Chamber on the specific objection of the status holders. I assume that it is also about the asylum chain in width, because this is, of course, also happening in the first application.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u105	First of all, it is the question of what has happened. As soon as we know more about that, I'll inform the Chamber. The other aspect that was raised in relation to the IND was that the IND also goes on appeal. We have indicated in the written reply in percentages how often this occurs, including in relation to asylum seekers who appeal. As a general rule, the IND only goes on appeal if there is a real case-over-interest or an interest in the legal unit. In other words, the IND goes on appeal, for example, when the IND finds that there may have been overlooked aspects that may also play a role in many other cases and that is why clarity is desirable. This means that restraint is the starting point. I see no reason to change that point of view. Mr Van Dijk asked whether the appeal by the State would lead to a longer period of time for refugee cases. Of course, in an individual case, appeal may mean that the lead time of a case is longer, but that is not necessarily the case in all cases. If an appeal is well founded, the IND will have to re-decide very often, taking into account the ruling. If such an appeal is not made, new decision-making will therefore have to take place. This certainly does not go faster than the examination of the appeal in all cases. More generally, the appeal system has a very important value for the legal unit, since it contributes to an efficient asylum process and can also lead to shorter lead times. In other words: it is a lot more nuanced, is the short summary. In relation to asylum procedures, Mr Azmani asked whether we could not accelerate people coming from a safe country and having a Dublin claim, so that we could take them to another country in Europe to apply for asylum there, as safe people, also because the lead time of people with Dublin claims is longer than the lead time for safe countries. I can reassure Mr Azmani. For over two years, August 2016, we have already done so and people with Dublin indications from countries that are forced to return are being treated more quickly. We are just not doing it to safe people with a Dublin claim that would eventually have to go back to a country with which the Netherlands has a very difficult return relationship. In that case, we will be responsible for applying for asylum. It goes very fast, but it also makes us responsible for the return, which is very difficult or sometimes impossible. Then we choose the longer Dublin route, because return from another European country is often possible, or at least requires the effort of the other EU country. But wherever we can and when we have a good return relationship, we'll be on the safe country trail. Mr. Chairman. Many groups have asked questions about the problem of harassing asylum seekers. This is a subject that deserves full attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u106	On the previous point, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u107	Yeah, just about the lead times at the IND and the duration of procedures. We are faced with the fact that very high fines have been paid, including to people who are ultimately not allowed to stay here at all. I don't understand that very well. Surely it is not possible for people who are not allowed to stay here to receive compensation because the procedure takes longer? Can the Secretary of State explain what's going on here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u108	It's damages at the time you go well beyond the legal term. Then that can happen. However, it is a sign on the wall that the lead times at the IND should be shortened. I am not waiting for it and neither is the IND, but it may happen that proceedings take too long and damages are paid under the General Administrative Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u109	I would like to ask the Secretary of State if a solution can be found for this. Suppose we are in an international crisis and there are many more people coming, also a lot who have no right at all to stay here. If the system is stalled, then it cannot be that we, the Netherlands, are going to pay very good compensation again. So can I get the Secretary of State's word that he's going to see if there's any way to stop this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u110	Yeah, I'm making that commitment. Whatever's possible, I can't exactly see. Whether it can be prevented in all cases, I doubt it, but I make the commitment to look at it. Mr. Chairman. I had begun to deal with the problem of troublesome asylum seekers. This problem deserves the full attention and also receives it, especially in the places where it occurs and where solutions are sought, particularly around a number of azc's. It is totally unacceptable for asylum seekers to abuse our hospitality, cause nuisance or even commit crimes. This applies not only to annoying behavior within azc's but also, of course, to annoying behavior outside. In addition to the fact that this nuisance entails all kinds of undesirable social consequences and puts pressure on the support base for the shelter, it also places a heavy burden on the employees of all the implementing bodies involved who do everything they can to deal with the nuisances. In addition, criminal prosecution is the starting point where possible in cases of offences and crimes, as is the case for everyone in this country. It should not therefore be the case that there is a nuisance in public transport or that nearby shops are more often involved in theft. In the context of that shoplifting, Mr Van Dijk asked whether I share the view that a person who commits an offence should pay for his fine and whether this can be reimbursed from a compensation fund. Of course, I fully agree with Mr Van Dijk that an offender must be dealt with, punished and charged with a fine. Signals about shopkeepers dealing with theft by residents of an azc are an important concern. In the letter I sent to your Chamber last week and also in previous letters, I indicated that in the case of criminal conduct, such as shoplifting, the approach is primarily through criminal law. That is why it is important to report to the police and follow-up is given by the police and the D.A. But it is also important that affected retailers can make the best possible use of existing compensation schemes, such as those through the ServiceOrganisation Direct Accountability. There was something wrong, because asylum seekers, of course, moved more often and were therefore more often untraceable. What I have now indicated, including to your Chamber, is that COA and SODA are now in conversation to see how the COA can provide support in this respect, so that we can once again maintain the starting point that the possibilities that shopkeepers have to recover damage from residents of the Netherlands are also applicable to asylum seekers. It is not desirable for these possibilities to be more limited, but it is also not obvious that these possibilities are greater. Therefore, as far as I am concerned, there is no immediate cause for a specific compensation fund created for this purpose, but all existing possibilities also apply to residents of azc's. Whatever needs to be done, for example, Mr Van Dijk and Mr Groothuizen have asked for a wide range of measures to address the burden of proof, measures in criminal law, administrative law and foreign law. One example is the introduction of rapid procedures for clearly disadvantaged asylum applications from people from safe countries. The stakes are to try to put troublemakers in custody sooner. It also includes the separation of groups of nuisances and the possibility of placing them on the additional guidance and monitoring locations, i.e. ebtl's. In this ebtl, foreigners are also imposed on freedom-limiting measures. They can only move in a very limited area. Violation of that measure can then be used again to see if we can take the person concerned into foreign law custody sooner, although we have been treated earlier this year by the Return and Foreign Warranty Act. In the end, the possibilities are limited because sooner or later the judge says that it should be aimed at expulsion. And if that doesn't work, the judge can remove the alien custody. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked for attention to be given to the question of whether you could not force residents of such an ebtl. How many would like that, even if you look outside this building, that possibility is actually not present in the current system, because you already have criminal detention and foreign-law detention that should be aimed at return. I would, however, like to see there be room to, in certain cases, rather impose foreign detention and bet on forced departure. That is, for example, our commitment to the negotiations in Brussels on various legislative paths. About every JHA Council and every bilateral consultation we look forward to trying to bring it one step closer. Perhaps the new Return Directive could play an important role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u111	Is this the end of this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u112	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u113	For years now, we have been hearing that oppressive and criminal asylum seekers are being dealt with. The reality is that you can't get anything done to deal with criminal asylum seekers. See the robberies, the nuisance, the burglaries, the violence in places like Weert, Kampen, Ter Apel. And it goes on and on, it's not solved at all. My question is: when will you ensure that these people are simply taken off the streets or arrested, imprisoned, deported? Another point of public order is that it is so bad that criminal asylum seekers are rewarded. For when can an application for asylum be rejected on grounds of public policy? If someone's been in prison for at least six months?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u114	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u115	So even asylum seekers who spend five and a half months in prison can still obtain a residence permit from the Secretary of State. Then how can you say it's under control?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u116	At least that last measure has been tightened up. Those six months have only been valid for a few years. In doing so, we have sought the limits of what is possible under international law. In all the other cases referred to by Mr Fritsma, too, criminal prosecution, administrative prosecution, detention of aliens, we really try to find the border, but we insist that ultimately, for example in criminal law, there should be a conviction on the basis of them. It remains that the judge also gives a ruling on this at some point in the case of foreign detention. I want to maintain that system, too. It is not for me to say, "You will leave the street." We have a rule of law for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u117	The Secretary of State therefore acknowledges that an application for asylum can only be rejected on grounds of public policy if someone has been in prison for at least six months. Explain to the Dutchman that someone who spent five and a half months in prison can still get an asylum permit. Madness! You say that we have been looking for borders internationally. Then give concrete examples of what you have done to say at EU level, in Brussels, that it is insane that we should treat these criminal asylum seekers to a residence permit. What concrete steps have you taken to ensure that criminals who have been in prison for five months do not receive a residence permit? The point is, Mr. Chairman, and I'll finish with that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u118	Well, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u119	The point is that the Secretary of State says criminal asylum seekers are being dealt with. That's not true. They are rewarded with a residence permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u120	The last point, about tightening up, has been raised by the Netherlands on a regular basis. The reality is that we have not received sufficient support. And to see if we can tighten up the Return Directive on the contrary aimed at oppressors, a year ago no one was able to poke anyone in Europe at all. In a year's time, at least a proposal for a revised Return Directive has been made. This subject is not yet sufficiently covered in all respects, but the debate is beginning and we are starting to get our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u121	There are still mayors who say that they are affected by certain people, who are then initially banned by the COA to go outside. If they go, they will be evicted. Can the Secretary of State take that element with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u122	That is one of the issues that we are still considering. The COA has ten so-called punitive measures, depending on the extent to which you cause nuisance. That tenth is that, if you've made it too much according to the system of past years, you're being denied shelter for some time. That problem is getting worse, because that means that they are no longer in the shelter but outside it. We've added the ebtl before you get there. However, it is precisely in this area that we should move less often to deny reception and see if we can further extend the concept of the ebtl. That is not possible from one day to the next within all the legal rules we have, but we are still looking at the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u123	Last question, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u124	I hope it will be a kind of seamless transition, if you cause nuisance, from an asylum-seekers' centre to this facility. But can the Secretary of State also pay attention to an aspect related to this? There are also judges who take it into account, as Mr Fritsma of the PVV rightly points out, that it is perhaps pathetic that someone should be expelled and that would mean that someone would not get six months in prison. That is an element that cannot be explained. Is the cabinet still prepared to discuss this, if necessary with the Council for Justice? For this is not the intention of this regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u125	No, that's not what it's meant to be. But at the same time, judges independently consider everything that is going on in a case. Mrs Van Toorenburg cites one example. We do not know any other examples where this has been done, but of course we are looking into whether this is more common. At the moment, on one case, I do not see any reason to discuss this with the Council of Ministers immediately before the Court of Justice. Finally, it is also a matter of continuing to work together with all those involved to see whether we are making use of all possible measures. That also applies very often locally. Very often, if there is a local nuisance, do we also provide assistance from the Empire to see if everything you can do in the local triangle, with the police, with the state's attorney, with the mayor? Is all this so reduced that all the possibilities are being exploited as well? Sometimes we also encounter unused opportunities. We have that conversation often and intrusively with each other. Rich and municipalities hold hands here in the fight against nuisance, which we do not want to have. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the subject of discretionary jurisdiction. Mr Azmani asked me to reflect on the discretionary power in the first instance, and raised issues such as whether this competence is needed if asylum matters are to be decided quickly, whether the existence of that power does not result in illegal residence being rewarded in the long term, and whether this is a system that is, in my words, future-proof, precisely because of the fact that the ruler concerned is not only applicable to me, it also applies to all predecessors, but is not able to explain the choices in public. I'd like to reflect on that. I've done that before, too, in the AO of 12 September. But let me begin by saying that I understand Mr Azmani's concern about the use of discretionary powers. That is nothing new. This has also been debated from time to time in previous Cabinets. In the last 17 years, a lot of letters have been sent to the Chamber about how this works. And the discussion is of course also held outside the Lower House, also outside the Binnenhof. Those concerned, now that I, a number of predecessors, are of course also addressed in their own environment. I note, however, that I also share the view that the discretionary power has a lot of sensitivities, to say the least, and that we must keep a close eye on how this power works in practice. I also share the view that it is in the interests of the foreigner that the decision or distressing circumstances should lead to residence should be taken as soon as possible. Similarly, the discretionary power should not have the effect of stretching illegal residence in the Netherlands. I have already said on a number of occasions last year: discretion is contained in the same Foreigner's Act, which also includes the ordinary procedure with an application, objection, appeal and appeal. They're part of the same legal system. But it's not like that, and that's what I'm saying to everyone who wants to hear it, too. That recourse to discretionary power is a kind of extra step that you can always do, like: well, then we'll go to the judge in the last instance. Because that discretionary power is by its very nature really about other facts and other circumstances. Finally, I understand the feeling that the way in which discretionary powers are sometimes used does not feel fair to those who are not able to attract the attention of political, action groups or media, even though it has been regulated for many years now that anyone who thinks they are in a distressing situation also has the possibility of applying for a licence. However, these are all issues that come up from time to time. I'd like to take a serious look at that, too. Mr. Chairman. In the AO of 12 September, I already gave a detailed account of the discretionary power. For the sake of clarity, I would just like to refer to that point, since all the spokesmen were also present at the AO meeting. Ideally, as I said, a ruling is made as early as possible in the asylum procedure on the harrowingness. However, application of discretionary power is limited to exceptional cases where there is a unique interplay of factors that the legislator could not foresee. These are therefore matters which are not part of the legal policy or the rules. Whether this is the case, whether there is a solution to a policy permit, you know in many cases only after the procedure has been completed, because before that there are possibilities within the policy. Moreover, in a number of cases, all these factors cannot be taken into account at the front, because sometimes distressing circumstances were not present at the start of the procedure in the Netherlands but arose later. Mr. Chairman. What I think is most important when I talk about this issue is to prevent long-term residence without a permanent right of residence, so that the situations which Mr Azmani in particular is referring to will be less rapid. In this I do see a relationship with the mandate given to the independent Van Zwol committee, because that committee examines the factors that lead to long-term residence of foreigners without a permanent right of residence. The committee will also make coherent recommendations on this matter. On the basis of these recommendations, the Cabinet will assess what measures can be taken to reduce this long-term stay. Frankly, I think that by reducing long-term residence without a right of residence, recourse to discretionary powers can also be expected to be limited. But I would very much like to await that package of recommendations. For this reason, it seems appropriate to me to go into the questions raised by Mr Azmani on how the discretionary powers should actually be filled in in practice. I think that's the right order. The questions are also asked regularly in society, but in order to provide them with an answer, I would first like to wait for the Van Zwol Committee's package of recommendations. Mr. Chairman. A close connection...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u126	Is this it...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u127	This is what I had to say about discretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u128	...in the field of asylum and migration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u129	No, there's just a few more things coming up about asylum and migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u130	There is an interruption, but I would like to propose that this be concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u131	In the debate in the first term, but also on other occasions, I saw that the link with the position of children, for example the child pardon scheme, was made quite quickly again. There were two different views expressed in the debate. Mr Fritsma asked me to admit that the current regime has dramatic effects, but others, for example Mr Van Dijk, asked for an extension of the regime. In the direction of Mr Fritsma, I would like to say that many parties in this Chamber often blame me for the fact that so few people can invoke this arrangement, which we have since 2013, because you have to meet very strict criteria. This leads to very few acceptances. In this respect, therefore, I cannot admit that the regulation has a dramatic effect. As far as I am concerned, the scheme has made a balanced choice, which also means that the scheme is there for those who cannot leave but not for those who do not want to leave. At the same time, there is no reason for the cabinet to change the arrangement. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to a few various questions that have been asked about the issue of asylum and migration in the Netherlands. Mr Van Dijk asked about the proposal submitted to the budget a year ago by handing over the SP note on more flexible reception throughout the Netherlands. We are busy with municipalities and with the COA association which is part of the flexible reception programme to map out the possibilities for better alignment. By its nature, it takes a little over a year. We own property at the COA and it takes a big switch to see if you can move to another accommodation model. We're working on that. I expect to be able to report on the first future images in the course of 2019: where could it end in a few years? I am right in linking this question with Mr Groothuizen's question as a result of his work visit to the intermediate supply in Tynaarlo. That is one of the possibilities we are currently testing in practice. I think this is exactly one of those locations that would make Mr Jasper van Dijk very happy. It is small-scale in the local community, in anticipation of permanent housing. We are deliberately testing this to see how it works in practice and whether this could be done in more places in the future as part of the flexible reception programme. Other initiatives have also been tested in the country. It is not unique, but it is in this form. We want to use the experiences of all these different initiatives to finally find a place in the final concepts of care. After the reception of course follows the housing of status holders in municipalities. That's what we're doing. How can we make the match with a region where there would be enough work for those involved? That's already happening, but I admit that's not on a 100% scale. In order to do this properly, we need practical experience. The Swiss pilot Mr Groothuizen mentioned is known to us. People at the COA are talking to the researchers and the performers of that pilot in Switzerland to see what we can learn from them to further refine our own methodology. I expect the Chamber to further participate in the regular reports on the flexible reception programme in the course of the next financial year. Despite her rejected motion, Mrs Buitenweg asked what we do for sick children... Excuse me, Mr Van Ojik asked what we are doing despite the rejected Buitenweg motion. In response to that motion, I have already indicated that we are always looking for a solution for the individual cases. That alone will not always be possible at every location of the COA. In the placement we try to take into account the specific reception conditions aimed at limiting children or adults. I admit that there have been reports in the past year that it has pinched here and there. Then what we do is sit down with those involved as soon as possible. In such cases we simply find a solution. Actually, we're trying to get ahead of the messages. It didn't always work out, but COA learned from this. Ms Van Toorenburg asked about the funding possibilities for TeamUp. She has done this before at the AO on the integrated migration agenda. At that time, I promised her to work on this and to see how we can secure funding from 2020 onwards. It's still settled for 2019. I keep that promise. These weeks we are in consultation with the organisations involved and we see opportunities, for example from the European Migration Fund. We want to accompany the organisations concerned with the application so that funding from that fund can be maintained for a number of years. None of that is running yet, but we are busy making this possible. If there's more news about it, I'll let the Chamber know about it. I have dealt with most of the national issues. Questions have, of course, been asked which have already been answered in writing. I'd like to end the block inland with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u132	Were you finished with all the questions about it...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u133	..inland? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u134	Migration inland, then. Mrs Kuik and I talked about our initiative law, our efforts to anchor the child's interests in the Alien Law to prevent rooting and then deportation. The question to the Secretary of State is whether he is prepared to join us, and I hope to see with colleagues in this Chamber, if that is perhaps a way to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u135	In the first place, I have seen the debate as a debate between parliamentary groups in order to see who is going to support the initiative law. The complex thing is that I do not know the initiative law and that I will have to make a position on it on behalf of the cabinet when I submit it. Actually, I'd like to do it in that order. I find it very difficult to make a statement here on a proposal that I do not know. In the past, we have already indicated that we are currently taking sufficient account of children in the asylum procedure. It is not the only issue involved in an asylum procedure, but it is taken into account. But for a good conversation, of course, I'm always open.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u136	Besides the children's pardon we had another popular subject, namely the bed-bath-bath-bath locations. These are important in the context of a good return. One has peace to work on return. I understand that there is now an agreement with the municipalities on the bed-bath-bath facilities. Can the Secretary of State confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u137	No, I'm in consultation with municipalities to see if we can achieve national foreign facilities, as mentioned in government agreement. Those conversations have advanced, but have not yet come to an end. As soon as they have come to an end, the Court will be the first to know. I hope that's before the end of the year. No, I expect this to be by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u138	Well, then I can tell that it's actually finished. Then what's it on? That's what I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u139	Look each other in the eye, see if we agree and also if all points are on the i.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u140	Your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u141	Do I not have to expect us to get a presentation of this agreement this week or next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u142	Definitely not this week. I just said I expect it by the end of the year. You'll only have a few weeks left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u143	The VVD's proposal to abolish discretionary power has actually been wiped out immediately by the three other coalition parties. One of those three, the Christian Union, even said: if that continues, we will leave the cabinet, unless there is talk about the extension of the children's pardon. The Secretary of State just kindly said to his partymate Azami: we take the proposal. Does he also take with him an extension of the children's pardon, otherwise the cabinet will fall? Do you share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u144	That's all jumping to conclusions. I'm not in charge of that. I have just indicated that I await Mr Van Zwol's package of recommendations. That is the time for me to reply to everything Mr Azami has said about the revision of discretionary powers. I want to do it in that order. I have, of course, listened to the first term. I saw a group of MPs who don't want to touch it. I saw a Member of Parliament who was open to that adjustment. I especially saw a lot of MPs starting to act. Of course, I find the latter complicated, because, for example, a child's pardon was being dealt with, while I am bound in the government agreement to keep that arrangement as it is now. Then that discussion gets complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u145	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u146	We'll all see it next year. Then I come to the questions that have been asked about abroad, starting with reception in the region. Several MPs have asked for this. First of all, the current state of affairs in the EU. The EU is talking to several countries about migration partnerships, but not about statements of the type of EU-Turkey declaration. In particular, the European Commission and the Presidency of the European Union regularly talk to countries to see if they can achieve better return and readmission agreements, which is the root cause of this, how to cut off smugglers and human traffickers; in short, comprehensive agreements. There will therefore not be such a comprehensive statement as the EU-Turkey declaration as soon as possible in future, but there will all be agreements with countries on a successful basis. It's not going fast enough for me. I've said that many times in the Chamber. I am working on every European meeting to encourage colleagues to take this up more quickly. Especially when I look at where we stood after the European Council in June, there have been quite a few months in which I have tried to call on colleagues to go with a number of Member States, the Commission or the Presidency to a country outside the EU and to see how far we can get there. I do so together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. We try to make use of international contacts everywhere. An example of this, which Mr Van Dijk asked for, are agreements with Niger. The Foreign Minister has been there recently. That was a broader visit; that was also about trade and other perspectives. In the wake of this, I intend to make a similar visit at the beginning of next year and see how we can zoom in more on migration. Agreements have also been made with Niger: how can you ensure that not only human traffickers are cut off, but that other, regular and bona fide sources of income are created that prevent people from going that way? We support the importance of this. You must also offer perspective to such a society. There is a fund for this in the EU, the EU-Africa Fund. At EU level, we particularly stress the need to implement these matters very quickly in order to eliminate a root cause. I need to clear up a misunderstanding. Mr Van Dijk also asked about registration centres in the region, meaning outside Europe. We are not so much concerned with such notification centres. We do, of course, want to ensure that there are good regular procedures in countries outside the European Union, so that people can apply for asylum there or not through the UNHCR or the IOM and that they are not forced to think: I still have to go to Europe to apply for asylum there. I'm working on two other things. One is the shipping platforms. How can you ensure that people on boats on the Mediterranean get to a safe haven as quickly as possible with what can then be secured there in asylum procedures? On the other hand, there is the mechanism of a controlled centre upon arrival in the European Union. We are trying to push the European Commission to come up with proposals for this sooner, so that we can just go somewhere and see how we can do it properly. There are two more questions about specific countries, namely Libya and Greece. We have talked about Libya many times. I am aware of what MPs saw when they were there in the autumn recess. Several MPs have told me personally, for example, that although detention camps have been closed there, many detention centres are still open. In our bilateral contacts with Libyan authorities and cabinet members, we address them. Then there is also the issue of the UNHCR reception centre, which is already ready, but has not been put into operation because the Libyan authorities are preventing it. In our contacts with Libya, we also discuss this time and time again. We also do this in our contacts within the European Union, to ensure that the sound is not only heard from the Netherlands, but also from other countries and at European Union level. I understand that there are different feelings in the Chamber about the European Union's cooperation with Libya. I cannot satisfy everyone in the Chamber, but I have always taken the view that, if we have that cooperation, we should at least use it on all fronts to denounce this kind of thing and ensure that, albeit with small steps, we make improvements step by step in the situation in Libya. At the end of the block abroad, the situation in Greece. Mr Bishop and Mr Voordewind asked for this. The essence of their problem is: where does it go wrong there and who should we talk to? It's not a matter of money. I was also recently confirmed by the Greek Government. More than enough money is available from the European Union to improve reception conditions. Where this does not succeed quickly enough, the Netherlands provides the expertise to use the funds that are available more quickly and to use them more quickly. The situation on the islands is, of course, solved when people have a decision on asylum more quickly and it is therefore more quickly clear whether they should go back to Turkey, whether they should be re-established or not, or have a right to asylum. Time and time again, the real bottleneck comes forward, and that's available human power. The Netherlands permanently supplies people, from the IND, from the Return & Departure Service, from DV&O, to help with the procedures on the Greek islands. Other European Member States do the same, but there are Member States that do not do enough. Not only the Greek Minister, but also others, I too have recently done so in the JHA Council, every time I try to call on colleagues to deliver people so that these procedures can be speeded up. That's the only real solution. Because if you say "we're just going to resettle everyone," then unfortunately you're dealing with another perverse phenomenon: every place that drains the islands is filled by the smugglers the next day. They make sure there's a permanent influx that those islands can't handle. You can only solve it with decisions and clarity for the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u147	Is this the end of this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u148	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u149	I shall go first to Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u150	Back to Libya first. There is even now a ship that refuses to leave migrants, because they know they must return to the detention camps. We have indeed been there as a room. Amazing situations. The UNHCR camp is ready to be used. I believe that we have an involvement in this because we train the coastguard there, because Europe does. What means does the Secretary of State see, perhaps not alone, but together, to say to Libya: we no longer accept this; we help you with that coastguard, but then we really must open up that camp so that the people who are rescued from the sea do not return to the detention camps, but simply go to the UNHCR camp?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u151	Mr Voordewind rightly says that support for Libya is not from the Netherlands, but from the European Union. The European Union, in this case the Commission and the Presidency, is therefore the first move to address Libya. We are once again calling on the Commission and the Presidency to do so. Apart from that, we also use all our bilateral contacts with Libya. The Netherlands is one of the few in the EU to have more than many of the Member States around us, for example by having an ambassador there again. We use them consistently. As I said, it is unfortunately not the case that this leads to 100% results from one day to the next.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u152	Last question, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u153	Last question, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u154	Yes. Four questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u155	But I think this is my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u156	Well, that's the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u157	But I haven't asked a question yet. I'm here for the first time with the Secretary of State. So I don't know where you got four? I think we have ten questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u158	That's what we agreed on. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u159	I've only asked one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u160	Yeah, but it doesn't matter. We just have an agreement on this part that four questions are allowed. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u161	But why is it my last question, Mr. Chairman? I really want to know, because I'm entitled to four questions! I think this is important. I can just ask four questions, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u162	Good. Ask me a question. It will take less time than to negotiate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u163	No, but you say "last question," and I say, "I have four." When it comes to the Libyan camps and the pooling of forces, we are making a real contribution there. We talked to the people there. It is also Dutch who stick their necks out there and do the work in difficult circumstances. So we need to be able to apply more pressure. My second question is about Lesbos. That's where we've been. Each time we discuss it here. You say that these procedures must be speeded up, but the humanitarian conditions are already so miserable. Let us deal with this in Europe, with your colleagues, to ensure that that money reaches the right destination.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u164	There's an agreement between the two questions. Both Libya and the situation on the Greek island of Lesbos are the responsibility of the Libyan or Libyan authorities. the Greek authorities. In both cases, we are involved from the EU and the Netherlands is making an above-average effort to address colleagues not only bilaterally but also at European Union level. But what we cannot do in connection with, for example, Lesbos is take over responsibility from the Netherlands there. We are helping through the European Union with financial resources, and we are helping by sending experts there, who are also very much appreciated. On average, the Dutch stay there longer than the experts from other European countries and thus build up more expertise, which we can also transfer to colleagues from other countries. That's what we do. In the end, it remains the responsibility of the Greek authorities to comply properly with all the provisions of that EU-Turkey declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u165	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u166	I know that we are making a contribution, but that is for the procedure. I'm concerned about the relief. They're still in tents there; they're even outside camp Moria, I believe even half. So why can't Europe, which pays so much money, manage to get at least the people in the containers? 'Cause up on Lesbos, they're in containers. So why can't we do that for Camp Moria?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u167	The following applies to this too. Mr Voordewind rightly points out that the money is available, and there too, at least, the Netherlands provides the experts who help to get that money in the right place and create the right reception conditions. Did that 100% work? No, absolutely not. I can see that too; I have been there myself earlier this year. But we continue to assist Greece in that too. Unfortunately, we are seeing the perverse phenomenon that I was just talking about: to the places where extra investment has been made in recent years, more people came through the smugglers, causing the system to become overloaded again and again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u168	Mr Van Ojik was there before Mr Krol. Mr Krol has another question about Libya? Oh, that's what you guys split up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u169	No, but I know that Mr Krol would like to ask about this; that might be a little more appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u170	Okay, I'm so glad you're thinking with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u171	I think we've found each other on this subject, right through all sides. I would therefore like to support Mr Voordewind in his appeal. We've been there recently. It's terrible what you saw in those detention camps. I hear the Secretary of State now referring to measures he wants to take in a European context, but I ask him to really look at what he can do from the Netherlands. We're gonna support that Coast Guard. Let us see where we can make it very clear to the people of Libya: there are fantastic reception opportunities for the UNHCR; open them up and make sure that the horrible conditions we have seen are over as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u172	So it's actually a call to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u173	A call I just outlined that we are using it, in all our bilateral contacts and within the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u174	My question goes back to the more general level. What exactly is the commitment of the Cabinet and of this Secretary of State to these migration deals? He said it's not the EU-Turkey deal but it's the shipping platforms. The government agreement states that we want these deals to send people who apply for asylum in Europe back to an African country with which we have a deal, so that they can then apply for asylum there. That is almost literally what the coalition agreement says. Is that still the commitment to closing those deals, I ask the Secretary of State. And how realistic does he think there's a chance there's a country that's gonna make such a deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u175	The commitment is indeed to settle a number of issues in broad agreements with countries outside Europe. One: what can you do there to limit people wanting to leave the country? Two: how can you ensure that there are orderly asylum procedures for those who really need protection? And three: how can you not only facilitate the return from the EU to such countries, but also help a number of transit countries, including with expertise, money and opportunities, to allow people who are stranded there to return to their country of origin? We want to take that up along these three lines, not only as the Netherlands, but above all at the level of the European Union, because that is the only way we can do something about it. I still encounter too many areas where the 28 EU Member States make bilateral agreements that are sub-optimal for Europe, for example on return. Many countries try to regulate this bilaterally and thus also use the strength that you have with an EU of 500 million people not enough. This is a subject that I raise time and again in the European Union. Mr Van Ojik's second question was: how realistic is that? He was referring, of course, to the recent report that no country in Africa I am paraphrasing is waiting for this. That's how realistic I am. I do not think there is a government to be found that says: we like this very much in advance; we go along with this immediately. But you can just have a conversation with governments and, above all, see what other countries need. Because this doesn't go without money and expertise. You can also see how you can help in such countries, because there are countries in North Africa that also have to deal with a lot of stranded transit migrants who want them to return to their country of origin. I do believe that if we talk about this, it should be possible in the coming years to make such agreements. It's not going to happen in all countries at once, but if you do it once, I'm sure that should work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u176	This was the block of immigration in an international perspective, but the hot issue in there, the UN migration pact, has been unnecessarily but skilfully pushed forward by the cabinet, with the excuse that there will be a legal analysis. But I'd like to know one thing from the Secretary of State. Does he recognize, legal analysis or not, that you only know if Dutch judges give weight to that pact when it is ratified, because otherwise you don't know what unpredictable judges can do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u177	I informed the Chamber yesterday that the exploration of all the legal implications of this pact is not yet complete. This morning we had a brief debate on the subject of order. The cabinet position is based on all these legal implications. I would like to offer the Chamber not only the cabinet position, but also all the questions that have been put to it by various groups in recent weeks as a whole, also because they are interrelated. If Mr Fritsma is already asking me to acknowledge or deny parts of it, then I am ahead of such a cabinet position and the conclusions of what we are now seeing in depth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u178	One last question, Mr. Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u179	This is just an excuse, because the cabinet has already given a value judgment on that pact. Prime Minister Rutte even said it was in Dutch interest. You cannot blame the Chamber for prejudging the facts if the Prime Minister has already done so. And again, the question remains. There will be a legal analysis, but what is that legal analysis worth if you want to get an answer to the question whether Dutch judges are going to give weight to that pact? Because you don't know that on the basis of that legal analysis. You won't know until that pact is ratified and presented to those judges. Isn't that right? There is therefore no point in this legal analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u180	But this is one of the questions that we want to answer first. Mr Fritsma has drawn a further conclusion. He says that judges are going to attach importance to this and we want to map out first whether they can give weight to it. As soon as that is done, Mr Fritsma will be informed of the cabinet's position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u181	The tension is rising and the clock is ticking, because 10 December is approaching and the debate on this migration pact is getting more and more intense. Can the Secretary of State imagine that, as a Chamber, we are going to look very closely at that pact? I've asked him that before. I am now reading everywhere that the government may also be working to supplement this pact. Is there any possibility of amending or amending that pact? Otherwise we're gonna be debating for nothing for hours, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u182	And you don't like it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u183	I don't like that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u184	Okay. Then the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u185	The United Nations is currently asking all Member States to give their opinion on the text under negotiation. You will have a cabinet position on this and I would like to discuss it with the Chamber. The United Nations does not provide for a procedure for amending the texts before us, so those Member States are asking for a final decision on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u186	Last question, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u187	I read in the media that the cabinet is also considering an addition, an annex, to this pact. I can very well imagine that other countries, European countries, too, are saying: we still have something to say about this. The debate is changing, it's getting stronger. December 10th is fast. I can just imagine it being postponed, that date. Is it not democratic when the Secretary of State says: I can imagine something that the Chamber also has suggestions for text on this pact? Does he rule that out or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u188	I really just want to do it in those two steps. On the basis of all legal implications, the Cabinet will adopt a position on the intention to support such a pact or not send it to the Chamber. If we send it to the Chamber, we will debate it, but I would point out that the United Nations does not provide for a procedure for amending a text. That's the score now, this Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u189	Mr. Van Ojik, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u190	I'm gonna get confused about that pact anyway. Isn't it true that in the summer the cabinet was simply of the opinion that this was a good text? This was negotiated. It was negotiated in New York this summer. The Netherlands has agreed to this. There's no sign of anything in Marrakesh. That is where verbal support is being given, so to speak. At least, I understood that the Netherlands was enthusiastic about that pact. At least the Prime Minister has said so publicly. Has anything changed, I'd like to ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u191	At the moment, I am not saying anything about that, because we are taking those two steps. First, we look at everything that is in that pact and we put the legal implications, if any, into the picture. Then we shall base our position on that. To date, the government has reported to the Chamber at many times that this process has been going on and that our commitment is to achieve a pact which, as it is also described in the Integrated Agenda on Migration, meets a number of conditions. The answers to questions raised on the basis of the final text and also the opinion of the cabinet itself on that final text are based on all the legal implications. Above all, we want to answer these questions in a sound, serious and coherent way. I'm really sorry it didn't work out in time, but it's done when it's done. And when it is not done, I will come to the Chamber with an unbearable position, and I do not think that is good for the debate either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u192	Are you going to a roundup? I think you're going to human trafficking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u193	Yes, it is. I'm going to human trafficking. I'm just looking for the right chapter. After all, Mr President, at the end of this debate, I will deal with two parts of my portfolio which are certainly no less important, quite the contrary. Unfortunately, they often remain under-exposed, but the cabinet is working hard to achieve successes in these areas. I'm talking about human trafficking and prostitution. Both, human trafficking and prostitution, destroy lives, at least when forced. They are degrading crimes that we must combat as effectively as possible, because wherever it is going, people lose their personal freedom, from a little bit to all their freedom. Last week, I sent your Chamber the programme Together Against Trafficking in Human Beings, which announces many measures to give a strong boost to the approach to trafficking in human beings within and outside the Netherlands. The cabinet simultaneously focuses on prevention, alerting, detection, reception and international fight against trafficking in human beings. Last week, the Chamber also received the letter on the Security Agenda, which identified trafficking as one of the key issues. In concrete terms, it is agreed that the number of reported victims by the police at CoMensha, the number of complex human trafficking investigations and a number of cases in the Public Prosecutor's Office will have to increase. I suspect that we will continue to debate this whole plan. It is important that the police are not alone responsible for dealing with trafficking in human beings. The programme we have created shows which other parties must take a step forward and must also be prepared to take that step. It is a multitude of parties that can strengthen the approach to trafficking in human beings in common. Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Van der Graaf have suggested even more creativity with municipalities. For example, they referred to a label for "human trafficking-free municipalities." I myself have had this suggestion in my contacts a few times in recent years. And yes, we are talking to municipalities to see what multitude of cases is already going on and what things can be strengthened or improved, in order to give a more prominent place to the fight against trafficking in human beings, especially at local level. But we also have many steps to take, because it has rightly been pointed out that too many municipalities, a majority, have no policy against trafficking in human beings. And municipalities have also been attracted to that. We have taken the first step this year by making it part of the intergovernmental programme. In order to support the municipalities in dealing with trafficking in human beings and policy-making, CoMensha has not only been given extra money to establish a national network of care coordinators, but also the VNG has now appointed a project leader, who will help the municipalities to have policies against trafficking in human beings in every municipality at the end of this period of administration in the municipalities. I therefore note that there is interest in contacts with municipalities here and there. It is said: well yes, we would like to take that step forward, but what is needed to be able or allowed to call you as a community "human trafficking free municipality"? But there is also a shudder, because there are still a lot of steps to be taken. So it will also be a growth process; how should you do this? But I think it might help eventually. It doesn't matter whether you call it a label or a label or whatever. It could help to identify at least what a municipality just needs to have arranged properly and have a good image. Then a municipality will never be able to prevent one hundred percent of all things, but then you yourself have brought your alertness to a much higher level. So that creativity is being worked on with the municipalities. Mrs Van der Graaf also asked about the capacity to deal with exploitation and child trafficking, particularly in the Roma community. That too has our attention. I also said that it is a priority in the Security Agenda. This contributes to this, because that will also mean more commitment and more human strength for the police. Apart from that, we have also ensured that the formation within the AVIMs, i.e. the teams in which the human trafficking detectives are involved, has been restored. In recent years, this was not fully filled. That's gonna mean more capacity. Also in the training of all primary police officers, attention is paid to at least recognizing the signals, so that more frequent work can be done on specialised investigation. That means all in all, that there will just be more things in the picture. That will also be matters of child exploitation, including child exploitation in the Roma community. Over the last few years, we have been able to raise the level of expertise on a number of major issues. Without saying that it is precisely those people who are exclusively specialists in the fight against child exploitation, I can assure Mrs Van der Graaf that the focus on tackling child exploitation is secured in all these measures. The fact that we will soon have more human strength for this should also lead to children's exploitation being seen more often. The same applies to Mr Van der Staaij's question. Inclusion in the security agenda and the targets that will soon be found should also lead to more cases being reported from the police and the prosecution at CoMensha, and that victims are given a place in the available care. Mr President, finally, the subject of prostitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u194	On the previous point, there is an interruption by Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u195	This morning, the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings appeared in the media. He has published a report indicating that 500 cases may be dismissed every year due to the lack of evidence regarding suspicious facts. This is about the most violent things we can imagine, namely the abuse of children. He makes the plea to read more and better data carriers, such as computers, telephones, etc. What can we expect from the Secretary of State at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u196	This morning it was specifically about the fight against vice. That is the responsibility of Minister Grapperhaus, but we will of course return to this report. Lack of evidence is something we can never solve in all cases, because there has to be evidence for a criminal conviction. In general, even if I look at my portfolio in the field of trafficking in human beings, there is always something else you can do. If you can't get the evidence around, you could also look at administrative tools to disrupt operations. In any case, you can make sure that if there are victims in the picture, they are aware of all the opportunities for victim care, and lead the people there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u197	I'm finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u198	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u199	We talked to the Secretary of State about the plan of action on trafficking in human beings. I know the Minister of Justice is working on modernising the vice title. But it's a combination of things. If the rapporteur now says that these data carriers should be able to be read out, it is not the first time he has said it, then I would like to insist on a commitment, whether in the State Secretary's plan of action or in the modernisation of vice legislation. Given the importance that lies behind it, namely the evidence on child abuse, I would like to be assured by the cabinet that it listens to what the rapporteur says, that it acts in that regard and that it enters into consultation on how it can be legally shaped. And that it says: don't worry, we'll organize it!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u200	I'm just trying to tune this up. We'll get back to that in the second term. We can have a little back-up then. That is the most effective way for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u201	Are you going to finish or were you finished?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u202	I was done, except for a few announcements about prostitution. The Chamber is aware that we are committed to regulating the sector, to a structural continuation of the exit programmes and to strengthening the social position of prostitutes. With regard to the legislation on the licensing of all forms of prostitution, with an age limit of 21 years as a minimum age, and the ban on pimping, I was very excited a year ago about the speed in which we could get that done, so I say honestly to Mr Van der Staaij. Of course, I should have learned lessons from the fact that the legislative process has been going on for nine years. But I really want to make sure that it works this time and that it also works in a way that it doesn't get legal anymore. We aim to come up with a legislative proposal that can count on broad support from partners and that does justice to privacy aspects. That's a complicated aspect of it. But we intend to be able to consult that bill in the first quarter of next year. Finally, Mrs Van der Graaf's question, which called for attention to be paid to the programmes for the release of prostitutes. She asked to look again at its financing. We have allocated EUR 3 million in the coalition agreement, which was the amount that was occasional in previous years and is now being made structuralally for a nationwide network. That wasn't national coverage yet, and that's where it pinches, of course. The moment you make it nationwide covering for the same amount of money, it was even overwritten in the temporary arrangement we have for this year. You have to look at the synergy. With the national coverage you can at least offer suitable help anywhere. The arrangement we have now is a temporary one. A final settlement should be established by summer 2019 based on the current evaluation. Before then, I come to the Chamber with a proposal for the final settlement. If Mrs van der Graaf's question is 'take a look at the funding', which she probably means'see if there is more money', then I have to disappoint her, because I have to do with the additional funds provided for in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u203	I understand the Secretary of State's reasoning. We have received signals from, for example, Amsterdam, where organisations receive only half of what they received the year before. They do important work to bring women who want to leave prostitution safely to a safe place and to guide them to another place in society in a good way. If there are really serious problems there, is the Secretary of State prepared to look at them with an extra eye?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u204	The temptation to say 'yes, I'm going to look at it' is very great, but I know that it then leads to 'yes, but then we need more money' and I do not have that money on the budget. I am talking about setting up a definitive scheme which is national and must be financed from the existing funds, starting next summer, so that we can achieve the objective. That way, parties will know what they're up to for a long time. But I can't rule out money going off in places. I don't have the money to catch up. It went to other places in the country where we had to build this whole expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u205	Then I ask the Secretary of State to look into this with an extra eye when he is preparing this structural regulation. In my contribution I mentioned places such as Amsterdam, The Hague and Groningen, places where these exit programmes were used and where the need is high.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u206	Yeah, I'm looking at that need with an extra eye and all the other aspects of it. We'll talk about it next year, but we'll look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u207	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u209	This was the first term from the side of the... Oh, yes, there is another amendment by Mr Jasper van Dijk, on item No. 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u210	Oh, yeah, sorry. I have already been made clear three times "think of your amendment." Because of what I said at the beginning of the debate, namely that where the influx forecasts fluctuate, spring note or autumn note from the asylum reserve or other reserves are supplemented where necessary, this amendment is not necessary. I therefore advise against it, even if the cover is taken out of Article 91, where it is not likely that this article will be over-exhausted. But apart from the problem of coverage, it is not necessary in terms of content, which is why I advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u211	Thank you. Then I suggest we suspend for two or three minutes. Then we will begin with the first term of office. Sorry, I said first, but I mean the second term from the side of the Chamber. Then we're gonna vote, and after the votes, I'm gonna suspend for dinner break. I'm suspending the meeting until ten to six.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u212	We will continue with the second term from the side of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Fritsma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We were just talking to the Secretary of State about it, but the way the Cabinet deals with that UN migration pact is really amateurism at the top. The case is now pending a legal analysis, but such an analysis cannot answer the question at all whether Dutch judges are going to give weight to that migration pact in general or in individual cases. Of course, you won't know that until the case has been confirmed and brought before those judges, but it will of course be too late. Then you have already made yourself dependent on those judges, who are proven unpredictable, political companies and have already made a climate agreement binding. Of course, the cabinet can never predict the behaviour of judges. So the only thing that guarantees that the judge doesn't give weight to that migration pact is not supporting it. Moreover, regardless of any legal consequences, the cabinet itself must of course realize that it is not at all in the Dutch interest to get even more mass immigration, because that is at the heart of the whole pact. In short, I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to the UN Migration Pact,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Fritsma and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u214	The cabinet has really lost its grip on the asylum influx. Not only can the IND no longer handle the procedures, but the cabinet cannot deal with the public order issue either. And the cabinet cannot handle the expulsions either, because less than half of all rejected asylum seekers leave the Netherlands demonstrably. It is untenable to welcome anyone from all over the world who can say the word "asylum." The Netherlands is not waiting for that. We cannot cope with the disruption of society, nor can we cope with the Islamisation of society. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to achieve a total asylum stop,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u215	To illustrate this, we also have the sad fact that even the criminals cannot be filtered out. Criminals get a residence permit, even if the cabinet says they're being dealt with. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to always reject the application for asylum of asylum seekers who have committed a crime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u216	I can leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u217	Thank you, Mr. Fritsma. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank the directors for the clear answers to the questions. I shall begin with a point which is very important to my group and which, as far as I am concerned, is perhaps the most important point in my portfolio, namely community service in the event of violence against agents. I've said it before. The Minister will come back to the specific question I raised during an interruption in the second term, but I have a motion on this matter in hand. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that violence against agents and other public servants is unacceptable;]] [[noting that, despite Article 22b of the Code of Criminal Law, it is still possible to impose only community service in the event of violence against agents;]] [[noting that rebellion, or active opposition to an active official, is subject to the limitation of community service if such conduct results in any physical injury, but that a simple abuse of or open violence against a police officer is not subject to the limitation of community service;]] [[considers that this difference cannot be explained in practice, as no violence against agents and other officials can be tolerated;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that all acts of violence, including attempted, against police officers and other public officials, are brought under the functioning of Article 22b (1) Criminal Code, so that perpetrators of violence can no longer escape with only community service or fines,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Helder, Mr Van Oosten and Mr Van Dam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u219	Then the police stations. In reply to the questions, the Minister focused on one of the foundations I mentioned, namely that citizens should be able to report at a physical location. I have also mentioned that it is necessary for agents to be able to do their work efficiently. They can speak to colleagues there, they can change their clothes prior to their service and so on. That has led me to make a motion for that too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that proximity to a police station plays a crucial role in the sense of security of citizens and this proximity is also necessary for the provision of services by the police to citizens;]] [[considers that a police station is also necessary for police officers to be able to do their work as efficiently as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to stop the process of closing police stations started in 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u220	Mr. Chairman. I will not introduce the next motion, because this one has been for me for quite some time now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that until 2002 police access to the then fingerprint database of asylum seekers and undocumented persons in the framework of detection was permitted by standard;]] [[Considering that the current restriction in the Aliens Act hinders the detection of criminal offences, as there must be a suspicion that a foreigner is involved in the crime in question, while a fingerprint does not show it;]] [[Considers that it is possible to identify whose fingerprint found at the crime scene is very important in clarifying criminal offences;]] [[calls on the Government to restore police access to the alien database as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Helder and Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u221	Mr. Chairman. Finally, the undermining fund. I appreciate the one-off undermining fund and all the incidental amounts and the structural 10 million that the Minister has made available for this, but I still believe that a structural fund is necessary to support the Brabant-Zeeland Task Force and all those involved in this struggle as much as possible. That can only be done with a structural fund, therefore the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the scale of drug crime is spreading and, despite all the efforts of all those involved, including the police, the judiciary and the mayors, is still gaining ground, with all the dangers to society;]] [[Considers that a long-term commitment on a broad front, i.e. both police, judicial, administrative and also financial, is necessary in order to successfully combat current drug crime;]] [[calls on the government to set up a structural undermining fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u222	Then there is a final comment, Mr President. I'm still holding a motion on a new measuring instrument. Unfortunately, the Minister and I are not meeting there either. It happens. My group is working on minimum penalties; that will not be unknown either. But I would like to use these two minutes I have left to ask the Minister about something that really bothers me, namely the explosion of violence against our older fellow man. The CBS has mapped out that 291,000 elderly people were victims of robbery, abuse and violence last year. The last very sad fact was the 85-year-old lady who was robbed so violently that she was found bloody and half unconscious on the street. Would the Minister be prepared to take a look at how often our older fellow man is the victim at the High Impact Crimes, which are being mapped out? My group believes that this is indigestible. I would like a slightly different possibility from a measuring instrument and minimum penalties. My colleague and I will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u223	Thank you. Still, you have one minute left. The group will be pleased with that. I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u224	Before Mr Markuszower thinks that that one minute is for him: I'm going to stand for it! Mr. Chairman. I have two motions on the basis of the debate with the rulers on Justice and Security. The very first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that jihadists can still come to the Netherlands with a Dutch passport and that at least 500 jihadists are already present in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas jihadists are returning to society after their possible punishment and pose a permanent threat to security;]] [[Whereas double passport criminals also pose a threat to the security of many;]] [[calls on the Government to extradite and denaturalise jihadists after serving their sentence if they are in possession of Dutch nationality;]] [[calls on the Government also to denaturalise and expel criminals with a double passport after serving their sentence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u225	More specifically, on the matter that I have already raised in an interruption today. The Minister did not want to act as we would like to keep the Netherlands safe, so I ask the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the son of imam El Alami Amaouch was imprisoned in Belgium, to be deported to the Netherlands;]] [[Noticeing that the person in question shouts in a video: "Oh allah, destroy the hated Christians. Kill them all, don't spare one."]] [[Whereas this is a call for violence;]] [[calls on the Government to send a request for legal aid to Belgium so that it can be tried;]] [[calls on the Government to denaturalise, deport the person concerned after serving his sentence and to ensure that he never again sets foot on Dutch soil,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Graaf and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u226	Thank you. Mr Markuszower, also on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll read my motions right away. The first is also on behalf of my colleague Machiel de Graaf. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Pieter-Jaap Aalbersberg will be appointed National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security (NCTV) at the Ministry of Justice and Security on 1 February 2019;]] [[Considering that Pieter-Jaap Aalbersberg as chief of police of Amsterdam, despite the legal ban, wanted to allow headscarves to the police, 50% of the police wanted to consist of non-Western immigrants, facilitated Islamisation by organizing a larger and more expensive iphara meal each year and believes that cartoons and insults of the so-called prophet are a motive for Islamic violence;]] [[whereas Pieter-Jaap Aalbersberg is an islam hugger and therefore cannot fight Islamic terrorism and that with his appointment as head of NCTV, the lives of many innocent Dutch people are at stake;]] [[Considering that this appointment is an absolute gotsp because the man who facilitated the legal jihad against Geert Wilders is now responsible for the safety of Geert Wilders;]] [[calls on the government to reverse the nomination of Pieter-Jaap Aalbersberg as National Coordinator of Counterterrorism and not to allow its appointment to continue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower and Mr De Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u228	Speaking time is a big word, Madam President. You mentioned that. I kept to that in the text, but I don't remember making a real deal about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u229	A point of order. We have also made a suggestion to another MP this week to take out the name and just mention the function. Then we could support the motion. Otherwise it was not chic to support it and then it cannot be part of the debate. If the names can come out, at least we can vote on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u230	That's the point I just made. That is what Mr Markuszower says: I am not doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u231	That is a hand in the direction of Mr Markuszower, because at least we are not going to support the submission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u232	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u233	Technically, how much support do I need, including myself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u234	There's two underneath, so three more. Is the submission of this motion sufficiently supported? That's not enough. I'd like to ask you explicitly if you'll support the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u235	Can I have the lyrics, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u236	Yes, here's the text, Mr. Markuszower. Look, Mr. Madlener's here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u237	Yes. I'll leave the name.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u238	It appears to me that the submission of this motion is sufficiently supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u239	Still an advantage that so many Dutch people voted for the PVV. Then we can simply file motions on behalf of the people. That's okay. My next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u240	Before proceeding, a point of order. They've been made a lot today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u241	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I can't stay behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u242	No. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u243	I have also heard many times from the PVV that we are not dealing with individual cases, and this seems to me to be an individual case. I would have liked to have noticed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u244	That is not a point of order. That's an ordinary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u245	Well, you never heard of me. The Chamber is about individual cases. The sum total of all individual cases makes the whole society. My next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Jewish community in the Netherlands still has to bear a large part of its own security costs;]] [[noting that the Netherlands is built on Jewish-Christian-humanistic values;]] [[noting that this culture must be protected but threatened by Islam;]] [[calls on the government to use these proceeds to finance the costs for a secure Jewish community,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u246	And then my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that lawyers sometimes don't speak the truth;]] [[noting that the rules of conduct of the lawyer state that lawyers must refrain from providing information which they know or at least ought to know is incorrect;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the incorrect provision of information by an attorney whose knowledge, at least, he should know is incorrect, is punishable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u247	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u248	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Van Oosten on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u249	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to file a few motions. I understand that in his second term, the Secretary of State will return to the possibility of reading data carriers where there are suspicions of serious sexual abuse of young children. We had just exchanged that with each other. This morning, the rapporteur, Mr Mensenhandel, produced another report which suggests that it is not possible to do so, or not enough, and that this leads to a great deal of sepots. I haven't read the report yet, forgive me, but if I understand correctly, it even leads to 500 sepots a year. I am very worried about that. Then there are a number of motions that reflect on what I actually indicated on behalf of the VVD in the first term. The first is about the Rotterdam patser approach. Although the Minister has given a nice answer to that, I would like to encourage it, because I simply do not give it to those young guests to walk in expensive branded clothing and gold watches they have earned in criminal activities. That's why I'm coming to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a targeted undermining approach cannot be achieved without a targeted patser's approach in which young patsers with inexplicably expensive clothes, watches, mopeds and so on cannot be spared because these things can be taken away;]] [[whereas it is a complete wrong signal to local residents if the government does not clearly send out the signal that crime does not pay;]] [[calls on the government to engage with national police to consider how best practices on targeted undermining approach such as Rotterdam's patsy approach can be deployed nationally within the police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u250	And Mrs Kuik and I had some discussion about it, in a positive way, in the first term: it could screen for criminal backgrounds. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Bibob National Office now advises public authorities whether it is justified to grant a permit or grant a grant to a company;]] [[Whereas private owners and housing corporations do not now have the power to verify criminal backgrounds of potential tenants or buyers, whether through the municipality or not, while this may be of great use in preventing criminal infiltration into neighbourhoods and streets;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the way in which private owners and housing corporations can be warned of criminal intentions of potential users;]] [[calls on the government to launch an investigation into mandatory screening of criminal backgrounds and intentions, similar to those of the Bibob, with owners who want to rent out buildings, in order to prevent them from going into business with criminals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u251	Mr. Chairman. Then there is another issue that concerns me terribly, in the sense that I really want to have the assurance that we have just managed well in this country. I also had an interrupting debate with the Minister of Justice and Security. This is reflected in the issue of the freed jihadists. To underline the fact that we really need to look very closely and critically at all the means available to us to prevent these figures from having their radical, undermining and just criminal activities, and in this case terrorist acts, taking place, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in its last Threat, NCTV warns that in the coming years jihadists who persist in their jihadist ideas will regularly be released from detention;]] [[Whereas it is highly undesirable and may pose an acute threat to public order to allow such potentially dangerous persons to return to society untreated;]] [[noting that the Law has been in force for a long period of time since this year and that it may be useful to take necessary interventions to protect society;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether the Law provides sufficient grounds for long-term supervision to impose behavioral and freedom-limiting measures on jihadists who persist in their jihadist ideas in order to protect society from them, and if it appears that the law does not provide this space, inform the Chamber of how the law could be adapted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u252	Yes, a question about the previous motion, Mr. Chairman. I don't have the motion in front of me right now, but I think it's about screening tenants. I would be happy to consider to what extent that is good, important and just. But what exactly is the scope of this motion? Is it just about tenants? Or is it also about crooked pawnshops and landlords, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u253	If people do not comply with the rules of the law, this is already a criminal offence. In fact, I don't have to change that. What I want now is that private owners of a little good will, and fortunately there are plenty of them, know who they're going with. And I want to give them the position to know if someone who says they want to start a shop, but in fact has the intention of letting it be a gathering place for young guests who are going to do criminal acts from there. I want to prevent that, and that's what the Bibob's testing on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u254	Okay, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u255	Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to file a motion that touches on the subject of undermining. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas by holding large amounts of cash, criminals are building a socially undesirable and threatening position of power;]] [[Whereas criminals have obtained these sums of cash through criminal behaviour associated with major risks to society;]] [[noting that initiatives have been taken abroad in such a way as to make it more difficult for criminals to spend large amounts of cash, while virtually all cash expenditure by honest people can continue indefinitely;]] [[calls on the Government to examine what measures have been taken in the meantime abroad in order to assess whether this can also have added value for the Netherlands in the fight against undermining and in that context also to consult relevant parties from the field,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u256	Finally, my final motion; that concludes me. This motion is about coldcase teams. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in recent years 1,500 to 1,700 serious crimes have remained unresolved;]] [[Whereas, in order to find the perpetrators of these crimes, police coldcase teams should have access to as much relevant information as possible;]] [[noting that coldcase teams are now obstructed in the detective work in access to police data as a result of restrictions arising from the Police Data Act;]] [[noting that an improvement should be made in the digital availability of old files by scanning them, but that this is a time-consuming operation;]] [[calls on the Government to remove obstacles arising from the Police Data Act in such a way as to give coldcase teams access to police data, and to consider how volunteers can be deployed responsibly in order to access police files digitally,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Oosten, Mr Van Dam, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Krol and Mr Helder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u258	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azmani on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u259	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the VVD, I would like to thank all the officials of the Ministry of Justice and Security for their commitment to public affairs and the many questions we have all asked in recent days. I say to my colleagues that we have once again managed to ask many hundreds of questions about the budget. Mr. Chairman. I should like to make a few more points. First of all, the screening requested by the VVD of Syrian asylum seekers in connection with jihadist motives or alleged war crimes. I understood from the written reply that the results of this can only be seen before the spring of 2020. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether this could not be done sooner, given the rather great importance of this. I also welcome the Secretary of State's undertaking that he will request new posts for both Syria and Eritrea for the coming year, which will address the possibilities of return in much more detail. In my view, therefore, we should prepare status holders with a temporary residence permit for possible return. In this context, yesterday there was also a message on the website of the NOS: Syrians return to East Ghouta. In short, I would ask the Secretary of State to be alert to these messages in the near future and, if necessary, to see if he can request a notice of office on this subject earlier. With regard to discretionary powers, I would like to thank the Secretary of State. For now, I am satisfied with his commitment to the sensitivities which he has highlighted and recognised. He considered that the decision on distressing circumstances should be taken as soon as possible. In short, he shares the concerns I have expressed. I understand that the Secretary of State would like to await the findings of the Van Zwol Committee to see how the recommendations relate to the current interpretation of discretionary powers. The ultimate objective remains the abolition of discretionary power as it has been established, but if it has to be phased in to achieve that goal, I will go along with it. As far as I'm concerned, the result counts. I would also like to make a motion on this point. I'm reading it to you now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that it is in the interests of the stranger and society that the decision or distressing circumstances should lead to residence is taken as quickly as possible;]] [[considers that the weighing of distressing circumstances should not be tarnished by party politics;]] [[considers that in a rule of law the final judgment should lie with the judiciary;]] [[considers that the careful way in which decisions on the right of residence of aliens should be made should render discretionary powers superfluous;]] [[noting that legislation already offers an opportunity to take into account rather distressing circumstances;]] [[calls on the Government to explore ways to make better use of the existing possibility of legislation to take into account rather distressing circumstances, so that discretion in foreign affairs can be abolished,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azmani. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u260	I would like to return to the return of Syrian refugees for a moment, because Mr Azmani referred to yesterday's NOS message and reportage. I just happened to see that reportage. This shows that only the friends of Assad, the people who belong in Assad's camp, can return safely, albeit to a completely destroyed city. I don't know if Mr. Azmani saw the report, too? I hear him saying it is. So I would like to ask him: if he is so in favour of the return of Syrians to Syria, does he at least acknowledge that this can only apply to people who belong to the camp of current President Assad? A president we say is a war criminal who belongs to the International Criminal Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u261	I saw the report, too. I know the situation. Mr Van Ojik has seen that there are also people pretending to be sympathetic to Assad. All I'm saying is I want to know that there's more and more coverage of Syrians returning. Assad sympathizers who did not stay there, who have been in refugee camps elsewhere in the region, also return. I think we should look carefully at that. I fully agree with Mr Van Ojik. But we do need to prepare people for a time when more and more refugees will go to Syria. I think it is important to mention this in such a debate. In any case, I am pleased that the Secretary of State indicates that next year we will ask for a report on this matter to look at the possibilities for return. I can understand perfectly well that it does not apply to everyone. But there may be people who are staying here in the Netherlands with a permit, who will return.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u262	Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u263	Thank you, Mr President, for making that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u264	Mr Azmani often advocates the return of Syrians to Syria. It would be great if you could. Maybe we agree, but can I ask Mr Azmani whether he really would like to make that distinction, which is rather substantial, in his plea?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u265	That is indeed the case at the moment. I can also imagine you coming to a policy where you say that a number of groups can return first. This is usually the case when the situation in a country of origin changes. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a plea for a fundamental review of the Economic Migration Policy Scheme. We have had an interrupting debate on this. I am pleased that the Secretary of State would at least like to consider how such a system could look different in the future, learning the lessons of migration in the 1960s and 1970s. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both ministers and, in particular, the Secretary of State for Justice and Security for their efforts. I wish them every wisdom and strength, with this budget in their hand, for next year. This will put an end to the budgetary discussions for me, because this is my last budget discussion. This is always a special moment and a privilege that I have been allowed to do every year. I would also like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u266	Thank you. But you're far from gone. So I'm not going to say goodbye to you. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u267	Thank you, Madam President. In such a budget debate, there are so many subjects that it is also difficult to be completely satisfied at the end, because, of course, many things have not yet been discussed. I'd like to go into the police force. I've asked questions about that. I said, "How many people are out in the street every 24 hours?" Someone from the FNV came up with the 7,000. The minister said a lot more, but they're not all on the streets. My question was right: how many people are on the streets in those 24 hours? I was also talking about the operational experts, who do a large part of their work in the office. My specific question was: what does that mean for the operational strength of the police? Before it ends in fog again and makes me unhappy again, I suggest that these are perhaps questions that the Minister can answer in a letter prior to the AO Police which we will be holding next week. I'd be happy to. Then about the weed experiments. I sincerely hope that they will be a success, but in order for them to be a success, it is important that they join local experiments. We hear more and more that municipalities have doubts about that. The Minister said 'yes' but that was only the word 'yes' for a very short time. He said there's room for negotiations on the AMvB that is already ahead. I think it is important that we put a clear bow on that word 'yes'. Hence my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more and more municipalities indicate doubts about participation in the experiment closed coffeeshop chain due to the strict conditions imposed;]] [[Whereas municipalities need more room for local customisation;]] [[invites the Government to enter into consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities on how to adapt the conditions for participation in the experiment-closed coffeeshop chain, thus ultimately contributing to representative results of the experiment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Buitenweg, Mr Van Nispen and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u268	Then there's environmental crime. I was afraid we wouldn't talk much about it again. However, some written questions have been answered. This showed that there is not really an effective multi-pleger approach yet. That is why I have tabled the next motion with Mr Grothuizen of D66. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas no detection targets have been set for environmental crime;]] [[Considering that some companies repeatedly commit environmental crimes, causing serious social damage;]] [[Considering that the chances and penalties for these companies are relatively low;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Department of Infrastructure and Water State, to explore ways of more effectively tackling and informing the Court of Justice about environmental crime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Buitenweg and Mr Grothuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u269	Then I'm gonna talk to you about the police and the boas. It has been said that there will indeed be an impact on how cooperation between the police and the boas will work better. Then it could be about anything, including the exchange of information. But I have said before that I really need a broad idea of what this means, including for the task of the police. So apart from what it means to the boas, I want to know what it means to the task of the police and to the role of the mayors. Hence my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in many municipalities an increasing number of extraordinary investigative officers (boas) are being deployed with public-order enforcement tasks;]] [[Whereas this has an impact on the performance of the tasks of national police forces, and this calls for better clarification;]] [[calls on the government to develop a vision of municipal enforcement and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u270	Finally, I would like to say one thing about legal aid. Actually, the Minister says two things. He also says in his letter: it is a question of solving a problem as effectively as possible. But he also says, one step to the judge must be the last resort. I find that confusing. Maybe he can shed some light on that. What if there is an effective means open that is different from the judge, but the judge is desirable, for example because it raises the question of whether a particular action by someone or by an administrative body was actually justified? I think we're missing that balance right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u271	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's at one minute and 59 seconds. Oh, no, one minute and 58 seconds. I have to hurry. It's fast. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and, of course, the directors in general for answering the questions. I have already said it, but I would like to repeat it once again: we will be very happy to discuss it with colleagues and also with the Secretary of State in order to move forward with our initiative to better anchor the rights of the child in the Alien Law. By "we," I mean Mrs. Chicken and myself. We'll get back to that soon. The Secretary of State is not enthusiastic about the amendment to item No. 20, that colleague Jasper van Dijk and I have submitted. My colleague will probably say something about this later. On the same point, namely the capacity of the IND, I would like to make a motion on behalf of my colleague Jasper van Dijk. That motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the funding and capacity of the IND is now based on the asylum influx of the previous year and that the IND's budget thus fluctuates significantly in recent years;]] [[Whereas it is important that the IND has sufficient and stable capacity to complete business in good time;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether another funding system is possible and desirable for the IND, which can improve the stability of the capacity for timely decision on applications to the IND,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u273	Then I have half a minute to say something about the Marrakesh Global Compact. We are going to debate this at length. I asked the Secretary of State in the first term: isn't it true that the cabinet had already spoken out for this in the past? I thought I remembered that, and I checked it out. In the report of the last UN General Assembly, Minister Blok expressed support for the Global Compact for Migration. He then gives six examples in which it is exactly in line with the six pillars of government policy in the area of migration. I insist that the cabinet has already supported this compact. If it wants to withdraw that now, it is a change in the direction of the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u274	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u275	Mr. Chairman. I had the impression I had more than two minutes, but okay. I have two comments and four motions for resolutions. The first comment concerns the CCV. I would like to thank the Minister for Legal Protection for his commitment on this point, but I think that 'by summer' is too far away to provide more information. It is also about the viability of the CCV, so I ask him to provide further information in the first quarter of 2019. I have a comment in the direction of the Minister for Justice and Security on the Justice and Security Inspectorate. I also hope that the inspector-general will listen to the somewhat independent role he has, because in the written answer to the questions much thanks to the officials who have answered all our questions, in 66 pages the answer to the question of what the JenV inspection is going to do is extremely lean. Could the Minister be more explicit in saying that this will also play a role? Then four motions. The first motion concerns the PxQ system at the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government intends to significantly finance the Public Prosecutor's Office (OM) as of 1 January 2019 on the basis of a price per criminal case assessed, the PxQ-systematic, also known as output financing;]] [[Whereas such financing systems can lead to perverse incentives, an increase in bureaucracy and, in the case of a declining number of cases, to increasingly heavy burdens;]] [[Whereas the case-law has shown that output financing may be desirable but may also have undesirable effects;]] [[Whereas part of the work of the Public Prosecutor consists of the prevention of criminal offences and the disruption of criminal conduct, without leading to specific criminal proceedings to be brought before the courts;]] [[Invites the Minister to take this into account when introducing output financing to the Office in the sense that activities and matters that do not lend themselves to output financing and the fixed burden of the Office are excluded from this output financing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Dam, Groothuizen, Van der Staaij, Van der Graaf, Van Nispen and Buitenweg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u276	It is a rather technical motion and I therefore ask Mr Van Dam if he can explain the financial consequences that might be attached to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u277	I think the motion has a less technical charge than you think. The most important thing is to do justice to the people I have been talking about, as well as to the value of a particular task and the value of an organisation. We shouldn't do with the D.A. what happened a little bit to the ZM, which is that we're turning it into a cookie factory. So I don't have the ambition to spend more money on it. I would like to, but that is not the thrust of this motion. I do, however, have the ambition that people are recognised in the work they do and that it is not going to dominate the shadows of a financing system. I see I'm about to get the VVD's support. I'll continue with the second motion. It's about neighborhood prevention groups. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas active citizens, gathered in neighbourhood prevention groups and whatsapp groups, are a valuable complement to the work of police and supervisors;]] [[noting that, for example, citizens are increasingly playing an active role in the security domain using social media;]] [[Considering that the police do not have a national policy line on how to deal with citizens' initiatives in the area of enforcement and detection and that this can even change a lot locally;]] [[Whereas the development of such a national policy can also set out principles and limitations, enabling agreements to be made at local level;]] [[calls on the Government, in close cooperation with representatives of neighbourhood prevention and whatsapp groups and civil investigation experts, to examine the value of a national police directive in the field of civil enforcement and detection, while respecting legal guarantees, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the cabinet will extend the police to 1,111 places and a significant part of them, 769 places, to strengthen the police base teams, precisely to increase the visibility of the police in neighbourhoods, villages and cities;]] [[Whereas this reinforcement of the basic teams is very appropriate;]] [[noting that the power to distribute allocated capacity within the units is not a competence of the Minister of Justice and Security but of the regional mayors;]] [[Calls on the Government to communicate to the regional mayors that the additional capacity for the district, as a result of the coalition agreement, is actually used to strengthen the base teams;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of how the increase in strength is actually used in the various police units,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Dam and Den Boer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-44]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Dam, Laan-Geselschap, Helder, Van der Graaf and Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u278	I would like to ask Mr Van Dam how he sees the role of the police chief of the unit in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u279	I think the Chief of Police has a very important role to play in assessing where the reinforcement is needed and not necessary, but I think that Chief of Police should do so in the light of how the Minister means to grant strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u280	Finally, Mrs Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u281	I'm just gonna take a look at Article 38 of the Police Act. That's where the police chief's role is clearly defined. So I'd like to give Mr. Van Dam a moment to see if he can change his motion at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u282	We're gonna look at it all; thank you for the suggestion. Then I'll go to the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that as of 1 January 2019, the Minister of Justice and Security shall set out the new security agenda setting out the national police policy objectives for the next four years;]] [[Considering that in recent years there has been a very large increase in the number of seriously injured road users, a substantial part of which is caused by repeat offenders who were under influence behind the wheel;]] [[noting that the new safety agenda does not include traffic enforcement as a policy objective;]] [[whereas traffic enforcement is the final part of the overall road safety policy and is one of the key tasks of our police;]] [[calls on the government to include road safety in the safety agenda and thus to be part of the national policy objectives of the police for the period 2019-2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Dam, Van Toorenburg and Laan-Geselschap. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the directors for their oral reply and also for their written reply. It was quite extensive and we are very pleased, for example, with the written response on the question of decryption of telephones and computers. Apparently, they're working on that. I didn't have that very sharp on my retina and now I see what's happening. So that's very nice. In my term, I concentrated on the position of the victims. With their position and what happens in practice, things are still pinching. I have spoken clearly about legal aid. I saw on the Internet that many people are worried about this, for example whether it is intended that one lawyer should earn more than the other. That's not my point at all. I am particularly concerned that victims should also be given adequate legal aid and that it should therefore be given its own place. I never care about one lawyer making more money than the other. I'm interested in the victims and, of course, the suspect. But I did come up with a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the new system of subsidised legal aid for common legal problems involves the use of legal aid packages;]] [[calls on the Government to give priority to the establishment of legal aid packages for victims and to make them available free of charge to victims of serious violence and sexual offences in accordance with existing agreements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Toorenburg, Groothuizen, Van Oosten and Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u284	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then we talked about the facilities, something that Mr Groothuizen always talks about. They must not be removed from the agenda at all. In the courts, it's gotta be better. It's been way too long. I'm gonna keep hammering on it, even today. We talked about the restraining order. I realise that the Minister has made a commitment to this, but we have been talking about it for so long that I still need to make a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is highly undesirable for victims to be confronted in their own home environment with perpetrators returning to their old environment after their release;]] [[noting that at present restrictions on residence can only be imposed on offenders by means of a location ban under the Long-Term Surveillance Act;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how an independent residence ban that can be imposed permanently or for a longer period on perpetrators of serious violence and sexual crimes can be incorporated into the law and inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Oosten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u285	The Minister can really see this as a support to get creative with this. We have talked about an appalling development in society, namely that images are being made of victims who are in acute need of life. I can tell you, Mr President, that I have already found two co-sponsors, Mrs Buitenweg and Mrs Kuik. I'm proud that we can work on that together. I also welcome the official support we are already being offered. It is also a good thing that the Minister for Legal Protection says: I am going to see if I can also take measures to ensure that there is sufficient clarity and that the principle of legality requires that it should not be done and that people also know what they can do. These are all suggestions, and I am glad that the Minister wants to take them up. I thank him for that. So much for the part about the justice chapter. I also spoke today and yesterday about asylum, and in particular about dealing with the troublesome asylum seekers and the poignant amount of compensation. That's kind of weird. We have received good promises on this and therefore I do not need to make a motion on it. I've only got one motion left. I would like to make it clear, however, that I also noticed that there is a great deal of support for this. That's the next motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the discretion of the State Secretary has been called into question;]] [[noting that any system of law is intrinsic to consider whether the effects of the application of a particular rule of law can be justified in an individual case and therefore the discretionary power cannot be removed;]] [[Whereas the principles of equality of law and legal certainty require the Secretary of State to clarify, when weighing the circumstances of an individual case, why, in a given case, he makes use of his discretion;]] [[Whereas it is important to consider distressing circumstances in the asylum procedure as much and as early as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct an independent investigation into the application of discretionary powers by the State Secretary and the possibilities for improving them;]] [[calls on the government to carry out further independent investigations into how the IND and the judge can better and earlier consider distressing circumstances in adults and children in the asylum procedure and how this can be anchored in the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Toorenburg, Groothuizen, Voordewind, Van Ojik, Kuiken, Jasper van Dijk, Krol, Azarkan and Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u286	Mr. Chairman. I am doing this because it must be very clear that this discretion is ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u287	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-10.u288	Then I would like to suspend the sitting so that we can vote. After the votes, we shall continue with the second term on the side of the Chamber. We'll finish it for dinner break. Then the directors can prepare their reactions to all motions during the dinner break.
