ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is oral Question Time. I would also like to welcome the Foreign Minister. We shall begin with Mrs Karabulut's question on behalf of the SP Group to the Prime Minister, who has been replaced by the Foreign Minister, about an attack on Syria and the Western bombings. I call Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last week, we saw the terrible images of dozens of civilians in Douma who were yet another victims of the unprecedented war in Syria. According to many, they were killed by chemical weapons, by chlorine gas to be precise, but that has not been confirmed independently. Researchers were on their way last weekend to find out exactly what happened, but that was not what the United States, the United Kingdom and France were waiting for. They fired over 100 cruise missiles in retaliation. We have to do something. We can't just sit on our hands. That was the dominant thought. But we must note that an end to the war has not been brought any closer. The guilty haven't been punished either. We know the footage of Assad walking into his megalomaniac palace carefree. However, tensions with Russia have continued, making it more difficult to resolve the hopeless conflict. The cruise missiles were also fired in violation of international law. That creates a dangerous precedent. What can the West say to other countries that are involved in the conflict in Syria? What can the Netherlands say to Turkey, which also acts illegally in the north of the country? International law can't be pushed aside like that. I have three questions. Why did the Minister support the illegal action of the United States, the United Kingdom and France? Wouldn't it have been pure to reject this? Why wasn't we waiting for the investigation into the events in Douma? There must be action on the basis of the facts, mustn't there? Does the Minister share my view that Syrians do not need more bombs, but a political solution that can finally stop the violence after seven years? Isn't that what all the stakes are for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Karabulut was right to start by calling the horrible images from Douma again. Men, women and children were likely to suffocate the use of poison gas. That terrible event and those terrible images were the cause for the action of the United States, the United Kingdom and France. On the Dutch side, therefore, immediately after the attack, we made it clear that any use of chemical weapons is condemned. It is a serious violation of international law. It's never gonna happen. The Netherlands has also long supported all efforts to combat the impunity of the use of poison gas. Last Saturday, we informed the Chamber of the government's position on the reaction of the United States, the United Kingdom and France. That reaction was already announced. Our reaction was that, given what has happened, we understand the action and that we also consider the action to be considered and proportionate. This is against the background of the fact that we consider it likely that chemical weapons have been used and that the Syrian regime is responsible for this. Four times before, independent international research, the Joint Investigative Mechanism, has established that poison gas has been used under the responsibility of Assad's regime, including sarin in Khan Sheikhoun. So President Assad is at least a recidivist. Nor has the Syrian regime given complete openness to the chemical weapons programme, four years after it joined the chemical weapons treaty. So far, Russia has blocked an in-depth investigation with the use of vetos and has also blocked the continuation of international research by the Joint Investigative Mechanism. Once again, that was the issue. Once again, Russia has thwarted an investigation into the attribution, i.e. the question of guilt. Last week, Russia vetoed a resolution on Syria for the twelfth time. This involved six resolutions aimed at stopping the use of chemical weapons in Syria. So six times, action in the UN Security Council to find out the truth was blocked by Russia. In addition, we see Russia also in the OPCW, the organisation that maintains the ban on chemical weapons, making every effort to frustrate decision-making in respect of Syria. The action of allies was aimed at disabling the Syrian regime's capabilities for the deployment of chemical weapons. That brings me to Mrs Karabulut's questions. Why didn't we reject this? We have shown our understanding, because in this context, all these terrible actions and the demonstrable role played by the Assad regime on several occasions, we understand these proportionate actions. Why wasn't there waiting for the investigation? The actions took place on the night of Friday on Saturday. I couldn't wait for the investigation with my reaction. The investigation that is taking place is important to us, but it is incomplete by the Russian veto. The research may focus on which substance has been used but should not focus on who has actually commissioned it. On Mrs Karabulut's last point: yes, the cabinet was and remains of the opinion that the only solution to the Syrian conflict can be a political solution. Our commitment is always fully focused on achieving a ceasefire first of all, and that is also what UN Security Council Resolution 2401 was adopted for, and then to achieve humanitarian access as soon as possible, because the human tragedy is terrible, and then to reach a final solution at the negotiating table on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u5	To begin with, when you say that you are in favour of a ceasefire and that you want a political solution, it is, of course, nonsense to agree to a military attack with more than 100 cruise missiles on the land where that political solution is to be found. That's one. Secondly, the Minister says that he could not condemn this earlier, because the attack took place at night. When you use something far-reaching as a military means without being able to see the consequences, with a possible large clash between two to the teeth with nuclear weapons armed superpowers, I find it extremely important that you at least have the facts first. I want to know from the Minister what facts he has. On the basis of what facts did this cabinet decide to give political support to this illegal attack? Today, an intrusive article by a renowned investigative journalist who is in Douma was published in a British newspaper. He comes up with a very different story: that the images are real, but that it is because of suffocation because of the dust clouds and because people were held by the jihadists on the spot. Can the Minister disprove that? I remember that when I became politically active around the Iraq war, on the basis of the highest probability, it was said that we should start a war because there would be evidence of weapons of mass destruction, that we all did not know. That evidence didn't come. That was based on lies. And the consequences we experience and now we see every day. So I ask the Minister whether he agrees with me that this step has not in any way brought closer to a political solution, but merely maintains the permanent war, a dirty war over the backs of the Syrians.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mrs Karabulut began her speech by saying: it would be nonsense. I'd like to continue on that line. It would be nonsense to deny that the Assad regime has repeatedly demonstrated the use of chemical weapons against its own people. It would be nonsense to deny that Russia has repeatedly blocked resolutions in the UN Security Council that could end the terrible war and put an end to the use of chemical weapons, and specifically now a resolution that could have led to a full investigation. Of course, the Dutch Government is also committed to getting the facts out of the table so that the perpetrators can be punished. This requires a UN resolution that allows research to be carried out both on the chemical used and on who is behind it. That's deliberately blocked. So Mrs Karabulut ends up in a circular reasoning. That is also the intention of those who keep blocking it in the UN Security Council. By making it impossible for a UN investigation to be conducted into who's behind it, it can always be said: you don't know who's behind it, so you can't act. You shouldn't be in on that. It would be bullshit to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u7	I would like to take this opportunity to ask a follow-up question, Mr President, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u8	Well, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u9	I'd like to ask the Minister a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u10	You will be able to put a follow-up question on behalf of your group. That's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u11	The SGP Group supports the government's line. We think it is right that this action should be supported in these circumstances, following these terrible poisonous attacks. The Minister also says that it is considered and proportionate. I agree. But my question is: to what extent is it effective? We repeatedly see these poisonous gas attacks. How do we prevent this standard of "no chemical weapons" from being further undermined? What more is needed, including for the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mr Van der Staaij's question: how effective is such action? Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. In any case, we note that the allies have tried to do the most effective intervention: the targets, which have also been hit, were storage and production facilities for chemical weapons. In doing so, attempts have been made to avoid civilian casualties. As far as I know, it worked. Even when it comes to the ban on the use of chemical weapons, the final solution must come along the political road. The treaty was signed by Syria. This means that they must also participate in all the tasks under the Convention, which regulates the ban on chemical weapons, such as allowing inspections and opening up any stocks that remain. So here too, the government remains fully committed to complying with international conventions in order to work so that this can no longer be prevented.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u13	The Minister indicated that Russia has vetoed six times an investigation aimed at identifying who did it, preventing an international mandate to intervene and saying to many people: you cannot intervene. That is a closed knot, as the Minister said. How does he see in the future that development of ex-post understanding can show but cannot approve such action because there is no international mandate? I ask this in the light of the conclusions of the Davids Committee. Aren't we in a straitjacket that we might have to review?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u14	The main route is to ensure that there are international agreements for intervention. There are a number of widely accepted legal bases for military intervention. Those are self-defense, asking for help or an international mandate. Now that we see that this is systematically blocked, we are, of course, looking for a way to break it. France has recently taken the initiative in the UN Security Council with a proposal not to allow a veto on the use of weapons of mass destruction. That initiative also supports the Netherlands, because it could break this deadlock. For example, the Netherlands continues to look for routes to end this cynical use of vetos via the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u15	Those who have just heard from Mrs Karabulut would almost forget that 35 chemical weapons have been deployed in Syria since 2013, 34 of them by the Syrian regime. 34 times! You would also almost forget that it is Russia that over and over again not only vets the investigation, but also the Joint Investigation Mechanism, which just makes it impossible to investigate it. On the last point, I would like to ask this Minister. The terrible role played by Russia on this stage, they are making the extreme normal......................................................................................................................................................................................... I ask this Minister why he is so quick to oppose additional sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u16	Yesterday, the European Foreign Affairs Council discussed sanctions. We actually found that it is so urgent at the moment to go back to the negotiating table, to continue through the UN Security Council on the main route, that is the three-stroke ceasefire, humanitarian aid as soon as possible, and finally a peace solution, which makes no sense to announce immediately that we are going to impose sanctions. However, it has been agreed that additional sanctions against the Syrian regime will be investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u17	A correction, because the Minister refused to answer my questions and then felt the need to say that I would deny that Assad used chemical weapons, that it was a miserable regime or that the UN resolutions were blocked by the Russians. I am not denying any of that at all, quite the contrary. But the other side of the story is that there are other facts. In the past, IS, Al-Nusra and other jihadist groups have also deployed chemical weapons. The fact is that Russian resolutions are being blocked. So I want to ask the Minister again: does he have any evidence that Assad's regime is behind this chemical chlorine attack or not? Secondly, does he acknowledge that we are not a step forward, but not a step further?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u18	When it comes to this attack, there's no evidence yet. That's why there's this mission. But we already know that the answer that Mrs Karabulut is looking for is not going to come because this mission has not been given the mandate to find out the client. Because it's blocked by Russia. That's what I mean by the perfect knot Mrs. Karabulut is tangled in. She says that you can only act when the UN investigation also shows who is behind this attack. But because Russia has blocked that question from being examined, that answer will never come. Then there is the second question. I have already indicated that the solution must be a ceasefire, humanitarian aid and a peace process through the UN Security Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u19	That is precisely what I am asking the Minister. We have been talking about the truce, humanitarian aid and negotiating table for a long time. Yesterday, the Minister again had all his colleagues in the European Union on the table, and everyone says: yes, there must ultimately be a political solution. But what are we going to do to bring that political solution closer? I honestly just don't understand that. What did the Minister discuss with his colleagues yesterday as a political strategy to get out of this complete political mess? For we can continue to say 'negotiation table, peace process and UN Security Council', but that has not worked for seven years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u20	I think Mr Van Ojik agrees with me that the fact that we have not seen the result we want for seven years should not lead us to the conclusion that we are not going to do anything. It was not for nothing that I was in Moscow last Friday, where much of the discussion was about Syria and the Russian role in it. It is not for nothing that the Dutch contribution to the Security Council is always very clear when it comes to Syria. Following this terrible action in Douma, the Security Council is now working on a resolution with benevolent countries to see if we can find a route. For those of you who, like me, are convinced that the only solution is through the negotiating table, and I believe that Mr Van Ojik is also one of them, so that means that you are always looking for routes. If one of them didn't work out, you're gonna find another one. Every time you look for routes, you look for the ultimate truce, aid and eventually a peace process. It must never lead to the conclusion that we put the tired head in our laps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u21	My question is in line with the questions put by Mr Van Ojik. Everyone agrees that there is a need to negotiate, but the fact is that the EU has not played any part in the negotiations in recent months. The negotiations are largely silent. Even in these ongoing negotiations, we do not play a significant role. Does the Minister see any change in that after yesterday and after what happened over the weekend? What is this change going to do for the people of Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u22	I think that the story about the role of the EU is somewhat broader than Mrs Ploumen is now describing. It is, of course, very important that the EU speaks with one voice in this. That's what happened yesterday. Mrs Ploumen knows how complicated it is to agree with 27, 28 countries, even in the case of such a terrible action as we are talking about today. Part of that agreement is that we all choose the route through the UN Security Council. The envoy on behalf of the UN, De Mistura, is coming to the negotiating table in Syria. It would only become more complicated and therefore unproductive if the EU came up with other alternatives alongside the route via the Security Council. I believe that this consensus is very important, just as we spoke yesterday about additional actions towards the Syrian regime. There too, it is very important that we, as countries, work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u23	The cabinet is rational. The Minister is rational. The minister is civilized. Civilization is also evidence. In fact, it doesn't matter how often it's been proven in the past. It's about whether it's been proven this time. That is not the case. Does the Minister agree with me that you are actually leaving the path of civilisation if you use the weapon of violence? Again, civilization requires evidence, and that's been released here. Let me just ask you one more question. Understanding has been shown, but that concept has actually been shown even before the attack was carried out. I would also like to have a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u24	Again, the perfect knot will be discussed. It is found that the perfect evidence is not there and that this would also be a matter of civilisation. However, I have already pointed out that the blockade of Russia in the UN Security Council cannot provide the perfect proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u25	Would you like to use your second possibility of interruption, Mr. Van Raan? Have all your questions been answered yet? Let me ask you this before I give you the opportunity to put a second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u26	If you look at me, I say no, they have not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u27	That's what I thought. I'm gonna take a look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u28	There was a connection between civilisation and evidence. I indicated that there can be no evidence from the blockade of Russia in the UN Security Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u29	Second supplementary... well, then I'm going to Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you have no evidence and still want to use the weapon of violence, so the monopoly on violence, you must have a mandate for that. Otherwise, you'll be on the same level as what you blame your enemy. Does the Minister at least agree that these are the same tactics as those of Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u31	No, I disagree and this was the other part of my answer. This is the same knot in which Mrs Karabulut puts herself. She says, if you haven't figured out who's behind it, then by definition it's wrong. I have already indicated that the Russian representative in the UN Security Council has apparently also thought that people will probably come up with this argument. That is why he has already thought: if we veto that part of the investigation, I find a number of supporters. In that knot, we must not let ourselves be laid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u32	All these Western interventions in the Arab world have yielded little to nothing for the people there and also for us here. It has cost us a great deal, both the people there and here, in money and in human suffering. When I look at the future, I'd like to tell the Minister the following and ask him. My position is that we should not interfere at all with the mess that is taking place there. We've got to let the people out there take care of it themselves. We have no role in this. We must act only when there is a concrete threat to the Netherlands, such as when jihad fighters are threatening to return to the Netherlands. Then they need to be denaturalized. So I ask the Minister to agree to the line: we do not interfere with those matters there, but we keep the mess from there out the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u33	Mr De Roon's party often points out a strong tone on the refugee issue and the arrival of many Syrian refugees in the Netherlands. If I were to follow Mr De Roon's line, we would never be able to intervene in the cause of the flow of refugees. Those people are running from Assad. Then Mr. De Roon would stand here grumbling and ask why the government isn't doing anything about the flow of refugees. Now that we are performing in Syria, Mr. De Roon is grumbling that we are performing in Syria. That leads to the conclusion: no matter what we do, Mr De Roon is grumbling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u34	Mr. De Roon, this is entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u35	Yes, that is indeed entrapment, because our answer to this little story from the Minister is: keep the people who do not belong out of the door. Keep our borders closed. Guard our borders. Make sure that jihadists are denaturalized, so that they do not have the right to return to the Netherlands. Keep them out of the door. That's what you have to do and nothing else. You are responsible for the safety of the Netherlands and the people here and not for what is happening there, in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u36	We are also responsible for promoting the international legal order, with the exception of that. We've been seven years. Half a million people have died and more than five million people are on the run. We are discussing geopolitical relations with each other today. Trump was able to show his muscles. Russia has vetted. Assad stays firmly in the saddle. What can we expect from this minister and when? What can we expect from our government? What can we expect from the international community? When will the benefit of the Syrian people finally be borne in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u37	This question is surprising, because it gives the impression that the government would follow Mr De Roon's line and that we are not doing anything in Syria. We are active in Syria along many lines. We are also active in countries around Syria where huge numbers of refugees are currently sheltered under often poor conditions. We are of course active in fighting IS in Syria and Iraq. So you can't blame the Dutch government for not being active. In addition, we have been active in this area, and we have just discussed it extensively, as a member of the UN Security Council, in working on a final and final solution. And in the end, there is only one goal in mind: the importance of the Syrian people and the importance for the entire Middle East, to which Europe is directly adjacent. It is in the interests of the whole Middle East, but the Syrian people first, that there should be peace as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u38	Mr Voordewind, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union supports the government's line of understanding the actions of France, England and America. It was inevitable that there would be a reaction. We cannot allow ourselves to be held hostage by a veto from Russia if there are humanitarian crises in the world. That should not prevent us from thinking about exactly when vetos should or should not be vetoed. Ultimately, attention must be focused on the peace process, as the Minister says. My question is whether the Minister is prepared to involve the Northern Syrian Alliance in those important negotiations that should be resumed in Geneva. They've been in the Chamber recently and they've spoken to us. Is the Minister prepared to work with his colleagues at the Foreign Affairs Council for this purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u40	Mr Voordewind is right that, in order to achieve peace in Syria, all parties must sit around the table. The peace process in Geneva, led by Mr De Mistura, which is unfortunately still, must indeed be a process in which the opposition, and preferably the moderate opposition, plays a central role, so that a final peace agreement can finally be reached in which all sections of the population are represented.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-2.u41	Thank you.
