ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u1	We will now go to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks for her question to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media about the report that the freedom of teachers and school leaders about the use of pressure equipment is being restricted by school authorities. I would like to welcome the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Dutch education is leading the way when it comes to workload. Classes are too full and teachers in primary education work unpaid overtime on average one day a week. One in four teachers gets to deal with burn-out complaints. In February, the Minister concluded a work pressure agreement with employers and employees. For each average school of 225 students, some €35,000 extra will be available upcoming school year, money specifically intended to tackle the workload. GroenLinks was surprised that teachers' teams decide where the money is going, because at one school it can go to a janitor while at the other school there is more need for extra hands in the classroom. A poll by the General Association of School Leaders showed that almost all schools have had consultations with teacher teams, but despite the clear agreements 10% of school leaders indicate that the board is still interfering with the money. We read on the PO site in action even that a school board suggested to spend some of the money to reduce the workload on the staff office instead of the money going to class. Our question to the Minister is whether he knows these signals. Is it true that in 10% of cases the school board deals with the plans in order to direct them? What does this mean for the pressure agreement? What is the Minister going to do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Westerveld for once again drawing attention to the wonderful pressure agreement we concluded a few months ago. In the meantime, almost all schools in the Netherlands, and perhaps all schools in the Netherlands, are working hard to fill in the possibilities they have to use 237 million euros to reduce the workload as of this course year. You know that this will amount to EUR 430 million. I have also received the poll, the "thermometer," as they call it, from the General Association of School Leaders, with an accompanying letter. Their conclusion is, and I quote literally from the letter I received: 'It is a pleasure to be able to tell you that an image shows that things are going well'. That image is also confirmed almost daily in my direction from other sides, even when I visit the schools myself. I do not rule out the fact that there will be some pressure in schools, but we have also taken account of the procedure. The staff members of the participation council must agree with the plans. It's all still going on, so we'll leave them the space they need, but my advice to them is, if it doesn't go according to the rules: don't agree. The second thing we have done is to set up a hotline to be addressed if there are any complaints about the procedure. I indicated at the general consultation a few weeks ago that there were 17 reports and that these were mainly technical questions. That's taken to 26. So there's nine more. Those are still often technical questions. So one really has reason to assume that it is not going well: pull the bell and make sure you get to the hotline. But the overall picture is incredibly good. This is actually a very proud minister, who is pleased that we have started this new approach and who is confident that it will go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you to the Minister for the answers. The Minister actually indicates that there are a lot of schools in which things are going well. That's right. I also read that thermometer from the General Association of School Leaders. It also says that their image is that things are going well. However, 10% of school leaders believe that the board is in charge of spending money, while the agreement in the work pressure agreement is very clear that the teachers' team agrees. I would therefore like to ask the Minister once again whether he is prepared to address the school boards in those cases where it is not going well. If this does not go well, at least in 10% of the cases, what is his picture if participation is given the right of assent? Doesn't that mean that participation will be put under too much pressure? How do we ensure that they can really look at these plans independently, whether or not they agree to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u6	The picture we have, also on the basis of this thermometer, is this intermediate poll because that's it, the process is still going on.. is mostly very, very positive. If things are not going well, then we have all the possibilities in the procedure to move in due course. Firstly, if the participation council does not agree with its staff, this will ultimately lead to a accountability in the annual report. On that basis, we can continue to act. So we'll have to wait and see. Those reports will come to us in due course. Secondly, and this appeal I also make to all schools: if one really has reason to believe that something is not in conformity, one can report to the hotline. That's hotline@werkdrukpo.nl. At the moment we have not really received many questions, mostly technical questions. It would be very nice if we could be found in the meantime. Then contact can be made. Moreover, the other sections involved have a role to play in this. Think, among other things, of the PO Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u7	I also asked the Minister what this means for the agreement. Is it true that school boards risk the extra money if they interfere too much with where the money is used? In any case, that is a statement made by the chairman of the AVS last weekend in the Algemeen Dagblad. Is the Minister still able to respond to that? And I asked again if the minister with the school boards involved, with which things are not right, the minister could ask the AVS to discuss a list so that we can ensure that the money gets into the classroom as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u8	My assessment of the work pressure agreement and the chosen system that it is a nice, good approach is confirmed on a daily basis. It's new. It is true that it is still a bit of a habit at school level to work like this, but we have built in enough elements to intervene as it does. is necessary. We have also agreed that if, for example, we have not complied with the commitments made, we will not receive another instalment of money. But we have, even while the process is still in progress and there are still notifications coming in, I repeat the hotline: hotline@werkdrukpo.nl, which has been opened up for this purpose....................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'd like to stick to that. That's how we agreed. But the overall picture is very positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u9	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u10	I am very grateful that the large amount of money will end up in schools in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you very much and thank you very much, Mrs Westerveld. Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u12	It does not happen very often that we can talk about good news at Question Time, despite GroenLinks' limited attempt to make bad news of it. But indeed, this cabinet invests hundreds of millions, up to 430 million, extra in just the workload, let alone in other things. And 90% of the schools comply with what was agreed. Well, I wish that would be the case in a lot of areas. My question to the Minister is therefore the following. Is he willing, as PO in action also asks, to stay away from this with his hands, to leave this to the field, to leave the schools, to rely on the opposition of local participation, and to keep thinking about what this success, what it is in my view...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u13	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u14	...can mean for further ways we give money...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u15	Period!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u16	... to do better at schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u17	The good news towards Mr Meenen...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u18	Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u19	... Van Meenen is that it's 96%. So it is indeed going well, but it would of course be nice if everything is going well in the end as we have agreed. I think we have set the procedure so carefully that it is indeed up to the schools, and the people involved, to be doing it properly. The hotline, which is also in the hands of those involved in this subject, is a fantastic opportunity to give a signal in the process if necessary: "Hey, people at that school, that's not how we agreed. Make sure the money isn't in danger. Just do it in a good way." You will see what a wonderful energy it brings out in the school if you involve the teachers and school leaders well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u20	"Beautiful energy" and "fantastic success"; the balloons can be exhilarated. Nine out of ten is indeed good, but I do think it is right for Mrs Westerveld to ask questions about this, because one out of ten is not doing well. I am particularly concerned that we also read in Trouw that some of those school boards where things are not going well are filling gaps that are not related to workload at all but to other matters in the budget. So I would very much like to hear from the Minister whether these stories also sound familiar to him and, if that is the case, what will be his strategy to address those schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u21	Two things. First of all, I would strongly advise you not to let go of balloons. That doesn't seem to be very good for the environment. The second is that it is stated that influence is being sought. That is something other than that which ultimately leads to results. There may be some pressure in the school and examples of how one would like the money to be spent, but in the end what is agreed counts for us. What is agreed must have the consent of the staff member, of the mr. My appeal to them is: make use of it. When things don't work out the way they should, it just doesn't have to be agreed. This will then become clear in the annual reports and we will have the opportunity to take action in the direction of these schools. The second is I keep repeating that beautiful hotline. This was created by the initiators themselves. Then make use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u22	Before people can use a hotline, they need to know exactly what's going on. 'Cause who's gonna talk about the money? On the Ministry's website I read: "School leaders, teachers, educational support staff are starting to talk." The agreement itself doesn't say anything about driving. PO in action talks about teachers and school leaders, not about governing. But then I look at the website of the PO-Council and it says: "School control is not put out of play. School boards are part of the plan." So the question is, who ultimately makes these plans? And when I go to the hotline mail "God, my board is trying to have a really big finger in the mouth," what kind of answer do I get from that hotline? Because it is clear to the SP that this is really up to the people in front of the classrooms and not the boardrooms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr. Chairman. In the end, of course, the people involved in the school are talking to each other. It would therefore be strange to keep certain people out of those conversations. But it is clearly clear that we have agreed and that is also stipulated in the agreement that there is a right of consent for the staff of the mr. In the end, staff have a very clear and even decisive voice in this. They must therefore be actively involved in the choices made. In recent weeks, I have seen examples of a good school trying, in good consultation, to find responsible choices that everyone can agree to. I am confident that this will happen in all schools in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-4.u24	No, Mr. Van Raan, you can't interrupt. Because Mrs Arissen has committed two interruptions. The Party for Animals has already done so.
