ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the VAO Integrated approach to security and integrity. I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Defence. Seven speakers have come forward. The first speaker is Mrs Belhaj. It shall speak on behalf of the D66 Group. Go ahead, Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr President, thank you. Following a good and wide-ranging debate on accidents, with a great deal of misery and suffering, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has decided to table a number of motions here today. That's what I'm gonna do very quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the clear mission assigned to the Van der Veer Commission, as formulated in the institutional decision and published in the Official Journal, has not been fully implemented;]] [[noting that the full performance of the tasks set out in the institutional decision is necessary to provide an insight into the extent to which there has been negligence and/or culpable action at any time;]] [[noting that a criminal investigation is now under way by the D.A. after reporting of survivors;]] [[Whereas, in the absence or in part of criminal proceedings by the Office, it is essential that the institution's decision be fully implemented;]] [[calls on the Government, after completion of the criminal investigation by the Public Prosecutor, to investigate the possibility of adopting (additional) internal disciplinary measures if there has been any negligence and/or culpable action at any time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-109]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u3	It may still be that other colleagues would like to sign this motion. I'm coming to my next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the clear mission assigned to the Van der Veer Commission, as formulated in the institutional decision and published in the Official Journal, has not been fully implemented;]] [[noting that the Government is obliged to inform the Chamber and that this obligation to provide information is laid down in the Constitution;]] [[noting that it is undesirable for the Chamber not to be actively informed when the institution decision changes in whole or in part;]] [[invites the Government to actively inform the Chamber at any time if the task included in an institution decision to set up a (temporary) committee changes in whole or in part unexpectedly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-110]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u4	Then I come to my last, short motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Inspector-General for Security has a crucial role to play as an independent coordinating supervisor;]] [[Whereas the Court should be informed annually of the findings of the Inspector-General for Security;]] [[calls on the Government to have the Inspector-General for Security inform the Chamber annually through an annual report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-111]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the mine accident in 1983, the Department of Defense has been calling security a top priority. We are now more than 35 years ahead and the rulers are still calling security top priority in the Defense Department. However, in the meantime too many innocent soldiers and employees have died or been injured due to the lack of a safe working environment. We recently discussed this in an AO with the Secretary of State and the Minister. Unfortunately, I have to conclude that there is not a sufficient sense of urgency among the rulers, and that is what this subject deserves. Insecurity is not combated by plans of approach and the setting up of committees, and the recommendations are then converted back into bureaucratic gibberish. Action must be taken immediately. There are many plans from the past which have not been and are being acted upon, resulting in further casualties and accidents. Mr. Chairman. Let there be no misunderstanding: the PVV has enormous confidence in Defence personnel. Where it goes wrong, that is not up to these military heroes, but to the government, which refuses to put things in order in practice and which is constantly falling into paper doers. Therefore, I fear that security has not only been a so-called top priority for the last 35 years, but that we will lose another 35 years on the road we have taken if nothing really changes. If it is up to the PVV, the broom goes through the Defense Department and those responsible for the abuses, accidents and unsafe situations are thrown out. In that light, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Defence has recently been involved in incidents involving casualties and fatalities among Defence personnel;]] [[Whereas it is in the interest of those directly concerned, the Defence Organisation itself and the survivors that the blame be answered;]] [[calls on the Government to use all possible means to enable the answer to the debt question and to draw its consequences;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Emiel van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-112]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u7	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I now turn to Mrs Bruins Slot of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u8	Mr. Chairman. We have had a good debate with the two heads of government on a lot of things that can be done better, but also a debate in which the two heads of government have made clear how they feel personally involved in bringing all this to a successful conclusion. The CDA appreciates that very much. However, experience has shown that over the years recommendations are and remain out of sight at some point. That is why the CDA and other parties, such as GroenLinks and the Christian Union, have called for a visitation committee. Both directors indicate that they are in favour of the idea, but the final plan is not yet in place. As a stick behind the door, we have written the next motion with GroenLinks and the Christian Union. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister and the Secretary of State have drawn up a plan of approach to comprehensive security and integrity in response to the reports of the Van der Veer Commission and the interim findings of the Giebels Committee;]] [[Considering that Defence intends to implement a total of 40 recommendations aimed at improving the security of Defence's performance and learning capacity, as well as social security;]] [[Whereas timely and appropriate implementation of the recommendations is of great importance;]] [[Whereas in the case of improvement projects within the government, good experience has been gained with independent visitation committees, such as the Health Care Inspectorate;]] [[calls on the Government to set up an independent Visitation Commission for the implementation of the Integrated Security and Integrity Plan for Defence, which reports annually on the state of progress of the improvement process to the Directors of Defence and the Chamber, and to report to the Chamber on the progress of the implementation of the Plan of Approach and the recommendations of this Visitation Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot, Mr Voordewind and Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-113]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mr President, you are asking 'why so long'? Because we had a discussion in the debate: what exactly is the intention? That's why this is still in focus. Two short questions. In general, the CDA has asked for consultation on the problems of safety at the Rijksvoestgoedbedrijf. At that time, we had an excellent answer from the Secretary of State on fire safety. A week later, we were surprised by publications by the Volkskrant about ammunition and safety. The PVV and the SP have asked good questions about this. My question now to the Secretary of State is whether there are any other security problems with regard to Defence and the National Real Estate Company. Can we now be informed of this and not again by means of a publication afterwards? And thank you for sending the audit department's report to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u10	Thank you, Mrs Bruins Slot. Then I'll look at Mrs. Diks. She is speaking on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got three motions, so I'm gonna start reading straight away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that several relatives of recently killed military personnel feel blunt and cold-heartedly treated by Defense, citing, for example, the presence of one or more lawyers in the talks between them and Defense and the lack of willingness of Defence to take responsibility and offer excuses;]] [[Considers that in contact with relatives of deceased military empathy and, when appropriate, apologizing should be a priority over the legal and financial interests of Defence;]] [[calls on the government to organise contact from the Defence Department with relatives of soldiers killed in a more empathic and generous manner than is currently the case, and to inform the Chamber of the intended improvements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that victims of abuse within the Defence Department have the impression that they are under a contractual obligation to refrain from communicating to third parties on the case of their abuse;]] [[Whereas it is important that victims of abuse feel free to speak to outsiders, such as OM, friends and family and aid workers;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that victims of abuse within the Defence Organisation are not limited in any way in their communication with third parties on the abuse case,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government intends to recruit additional personnel to carry out late security checks on ammunition, so-called "type ratings," more quickly, but nevertheless maintains the possibility for Defence to deploy insufficiently controlled ammunition in urgent circumstances through a temporary exemption;]] [[Considers that, in view of the terrible fatal accident in Mali caused by under-controlled mortar grenades, it is unacceptable that insufficient controlled ammunition is being used, even under so-called "emergency conditions";]] [[calls on the Government to delete the possibility of granting an exemption for the temporary use of ammunition without full type classification,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-114]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-115]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-116]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u13	Thank you, Mrs Diks. Mrs Karabulut has the floor. It will speak on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have had a wide-ranging debate. It was not the first and it will certainly not be the last debate on the security of defence personnel. Defence, which as an organisation has to ensure security, offers, as has been shown, still not always the security that employees deserve and need. As a result, the Giebels Committee has been set up and an external hotline has been opened. It appears that the reports will come, that the fear is great and that the pressure to remain silent is great. Since this problem has not been resolved for the time being and we believe that people should be able to keep reporting, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Social Safe Working Environment Communication has been opened until 1 July 2018 for the purposes of the work of the Giebels Commission;]] [[considers that an external hotline is desirable longer than 1 July;]] [[calls on the Government to keep the temporary external contact point open until the final recommendations of the Giebels Committee are examined by the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-117]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u15	Mr. Chairman. I too, like colleagues from D66 and PVV, believe that when, after a painful debate and after the resignation of directors, it is communicated to the Chamber that a committee will be set up to investigate, including individual responsibility, so that those responsible can be held accountable and punished and the organisation can then be cleaned up, it cannot be that half of that mission is not carried out and above all that it has to be done if all the good plans are to be carried out. That is why my group will support the motions that have been tabled on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u16	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I shall look at the next speaker on the list, and that is Mrs Ploumen of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u17	Thank you, Mr President. I think we all held the debate with a heavy heart a few weeks ago. This applies to the Minister and the Secretary of State and also to colleagues. We are very aware that we talked about people who want to work to protect our freedom, but we have not been able to protect them. Mr. Chairman. We talked about a plan of action. Colleagues have also tabled motions on this subject. We have talked about hazing and a ban that would be necessary. We talked about aftercare. That wasn't the first time in the last few months. When I reread the course of the debate and the questions and the answers, it sounded very much, even for me, a newcomer in the Chamber, as a repetition of moves, without much result. That must give the Minister and the Secretary of State real thought. It really takes more than that to restore confidence. Mr. Chairman. I have held a motion on the restoration of honour and compensation for the victims of the hazings in Schaarsbergen. I would very much like to hear from the Minister and the Secretary of State what the state of affairs is like, while respecting the privacy of those involved. Depending on that, I will or will not put the motion to the vote tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u18	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. By the way, there will be no votes tomorrow, but not until 22 May. But that will be Mrs Ploumen's intention. Nine motions have been tabled and I think three questions have been put. I'm suspending so that the directors can consult and prepare themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u19	I give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with all those who said that we had a good debate a few weeks ago on what we all thought was a difficult subject. We looked back on complex issues and also on the issue of security, which must be the top priority in the defence sector, because it is true that our men and women are at risk for their own lives and that nothing can happen that we could have prevented. We have also agreed on this in the debate we have had. For the sake of clarity, I shall pass by the motions that have been tabled to me. After that, the Secretary of State will take over. Mrs Belhaj's motion to item No. 109 deals with the mandate of the Van der Veer Committee. Indeed, we have discussed this extensively in the debate and I have explained again how we have looked at it. The Van der Veer Committee has finally decided to look at the organizational level and has indicated that Defence in its entirety has been negligent, and that therefore no individual people could be appointed. Van der Veer also did not want to enter, I say once again explicitly, because the committee considered that this was reserved for the judge. We've talked about that extensively. That is still our position. We all agree that so much has gone wrong that in the end the whole organization has to do better and differently. We are. We are fully committed to that. That is what the plan of action has been designed for. In this sense, I do not agree with what Mr Van Dijk has said, but I also said that in the debate. His summary of the debate is really not my summary, nor is it that of the majority of the Chamber. I would have liked to have said that again here in the plenary. If I look at Mrs Belhaj's motion, which calls on the government to look at it once again after completing the criminal investigation, which is indeed ongoing, then I would like to advise against it. We do not think it would be wise to begin with this. That's the opinion of the committee. We want to focus all our energy on doing better. That is the follow-up to the motion on item No. 110. I can't tell you about the deadline either. We must await the outcome of the prosecution. I also find it undesirable to announce a form of internal investigation on this subject now with a view to any disciplinary or legal action. You can rest assured that everyone in our organization is aware that it needs to be different and better. That's what we've been talking about. That's what we made that plan of action for. The Inspector-General for Security will play an important role in this. We do not think it is wise to say something about this even before the end of something that we do not yet know how long it is going to take. In fact, we do not think it wise to look back afterwards, because we all have to look forward and just do better. So I'd like to dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u21	It's a D66 motion, but I see Mrs Ploumen standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u22	Yes, Mr. Chairman, in good consultation. Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister one more question. An order has been given to a committee. The chairman of that committee accepted that mandate. He did not say: I accept the assignment, but I do not do part of it, and you must inform the Chamber. We were confronted with this after the investigation had been completed. Isn't that at least a strange situation? I hear the Minister say she doesn't want to go back on it and she wants to discourage the motion. But a contract has been awarded and the person who executes the contract decides on his own daft that he only executes half of it. Isn't that weird at least? I'd say undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u23	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u24	The question is whether the Minister does not at least agree and is committed to avoiding repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u25	But that's quite different from what's in the motion. I said the following in the debate. In the end, the assessment was up to the committee. If you accept an assignment, you normally carry it out in its entirety. I couldn't agree more. We have also discussed this with each other, but that is not what is in this motion for a resolution, and I am now responding to this motion for a resolution. It says there's something we need to do after the D.A.'s investigation. I assume you know that we have presented the report to the D.A., as agreed with the next of kin, to ask whether it looks differently to the report than it did at first. That is what we are waiting for, of course, just as we have been reported to the D.A.'s office. We cannot go into that. We must not go into this as a government either. I don't know how long it's gonna take, just like you don't know how long it's gonna take. I don't want to look back after that. That's my reasoning. I respond to the motion, but we have discussed the point you are referring to in detail in the debate. I broadly agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u26	This is a very delicate discussion, so I certainly do not want to be brief, but we must avoid a repetition of moves. Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u27	Mr President, it will not be a repetition of moves. But if you decide not to file an independent report or the public prosecutor then decides not to continue it or a judge finds that there is not enough evidence, from an employer's perspective you still have the opportunity to take disciplinary action in your own way. You could say that under normal circumstances you do that yourself in the first place. Something else can go to court and the judge can say: you have already received a disciplinary measure, we reduce the penalty. So here's what I'm doing here, which is why I think it's pure. No matter what happens and what the outcome will be, I will give you the opportunity to take independent action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u28	Mr. Chairman. I have certainly understood what is written here, but I find it undesirable to go back after such a journey, which I do not know how long it will last. Because we have every interest in it, and I know that Mrs Belhaj agrees with it, to look forward to working actively so that it never happens again. I therefore find this undesirable and would advise against what I have already done. You can rest assured that everyone is very aware of the fact that something like this should never happen again. That's what the inspection's for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u29	The motion in part No. 109 has been dissuaded. Next move.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u30	Then I come to Mrs Belhaj's second motion, on item No. 110, requesting active information at all times. That is the point we were just discussing with Mrs Ploumen. I told her in the interrupting debate on the previous motion that I was largely in agreement with her. On this motion, I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 111 is about the Inspector General of Security. Indeed, it has a crucial role to play as an independent coordinating supervisor; that is also extremely important. The request to inform him through an annual report seems very reasonable. So I'd like to take over that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u31	The question is whether anyone has any objection to that. Because if the motion is taken over, it will no longer be put to the vote. I note that there is no objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u32	Then I come to the motion on part No. 112 by Mr Van Dijk of the PVV. That motion follows on from the motion in part No. 109 and I'd like to dissuade you. This is in the district attorney's office, as just said. I do not share Mr Van Dijk's words about the way in which we are all working throughout the organization in the field of security. If something has to happen, it is that we all have to work on this safety, from high to low in the organisation. We do this on a daily basis, including by starting each meeting with security, for example. So I'd like to dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u33	The motion in part No. 911 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u34	The motion in part No. 113 by Mrs Bruins Slot is about the, as she put it, stick behind the door. If I understood correctly, she would have asked to inform the Chamber as soon as possible. We'll try. On this motion, I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. We have, of course, already written about this and we will come back to it as soon as possible. I understand this stick behind the door. Then I come to the motion on part No. 114.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u35	Mrs. Diks told me that she really had to go through because of an obligation elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u36	Ah, that's what she said to us at the beginning of the debate. Of course, I share this point. We have discussed with each other explicitly that contact with the next of kin must take place in an empathetic way. Mrs Diks also raised the point of the lawyers. Lawyers from both sides, I say, when it comes to the tone of each other. I have already said in the debate that we will do everything we can to ensure that it never happens again, and that we are committed to an evaluation in this area. So in that sense, I thought it was unnecessary, but since I think it is an important subject, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. We all agree that this is an important subject; I have also said to the Chamber itself that I will personally interfere with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u37	The motion in part No. 114 becomes Judgement Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u38	The motion in part No. 115 is for the Secretary of State. So much for the motions that lie on my property. The rest are on the premises of the Secretary of State. I would like to say once again that the Chamber can assume that we are all fully committed to the safety of our staff, but that, of course, we can never completely prevent anything happening in our organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u39	Thank you, Minister. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with the words of the Minister and of the Members of Parliament who have said this: I believe that we have had a good but also an emotionally charged debate on security before the recess of the Chamber. Over the past period, we have been faced with incidents and accidents, even with fatal consequences. I think that for both of us, but also in the organization, has caused deep wounds. That certainly applies to the next of kin, who have to live with it. I think it is a good thing for the Chamber to state how important it is that we get to work on this. That is not on paper; that is just taking concrete action, but also, above all, thinking about culture, so that people feel free to take that responsibility. I have also stressed in general consultation that action is being taken on it. For example, we have recently stopped our warehouse in Leusden because there was discussion about fire safety. Then the commander said, "I'm shutting down my work." That really is an expression of a different culture. That wouldn't have happened a year ago. Well, it is now, because we just don't want to take that risk, because we stand for the interest of our staff. I think it is important to emphasise this, because this commander has made the right decision by saying: I am doing this. That is the cultural change that we want to bring about together with the organisation, that this kind of thing is explicitly rewarded in the organisation, because that is what it starts with. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the various motions that have been mentioned and the questions that have been asked. I'll start with the motion in part No. 115 on the communication barrier, tabled by Mrs Diks. She has checked out; I see her associate sitting in the room. Let us be clear that, as a result of what has happened in Schaarsbergen, we have looked again at what we have written down in our communication. We have said of this: it can give clarity to those who read it. That is why we have adapted that text. The Giebels Committee has noted in its investigation that it has been properly explained in the report itself and in the hearing itself. But just to avoid misunderstandings, we've changed that, and it's just that people can communicate with anyone. You must, of course, avoid unwanted influence during the investigation. Everyone may be assisted during the hearing and the investigation by a counselor or a trusted person who can provide the right support. We need to ensure that research can take place in a careful way and that there can be no influence, but that it is clear to people that one can simply communicate. If I can interpret the motion in such a way that it is standing up, I can see the employee nodding in any case. Then I can give the motion judgment Chamber. But if it were to mean that we would put that element, which is clearly important in the context of truth finding, overboard, then again not. But I see the employee nodding yes just for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u41	Then we trust it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u42	Then we'll have interpreted the motion like this, and then we'll give her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u43	The motion in part No. 115 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u44	Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 116, also by Mrs Diks, on the use of ammunition without type classification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u45	Just a minute. I see Mrs Bruins Slot has a question. It's still about the motion in part No. 115, I think?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u46	I have a brief procedural suggestion. I know the employee of GroenLinks as a very good employee, but perhaps this can lead to a modified operative part. Then we have a very sharp time, and later we do not have to look back at the report of this sitting and see...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u47	...that there was a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u48	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u49	So it's just clear what's going on. That will be given to the GroenLinks Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u50	I also see the employee in question nodding yes. I think it's been heard. I'm sure they're working on it, I say on his behalf. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to a more serious subject. That is a motion by Mrs Diks on the use of ammunition without full type rating. Let me be clear that I understand the motion, in the sense that it is about security. We want to guarantee them, too. So I understand the concerns expressed by Mrs Diks in this motion. I just want to make things right. The motion suggests that our ammunition is currently insufficiently controlled. That's not true. If there is no type classification, this does not mean that no check has been carried out, that there has not been a purchase on the basis of a programme of requirements, including quality requirements, of ammunition, and that no risk analysis has subsequently been carried out, on the basis of which it has also been examined whether additional research is needed or whether additional measures need to be taken. So all sorts of actions are being carried out to ensure that the ammunition is safe and that it is adequately controlled. For all the new ammo we're buying, we're now also running a type rating before we release those ammo. Only if there is an operational reason to release these ammunition, but with an exemption, which limits its use, time and place. So it doesn't mean that the process doesn't have to be completed anymore. But from an operational necessity, these ammunition can be deployed under these conditions, these conditions. There is always a limitation in time and place. In addition, this motion also deals with the use of all kinds of ammunition from other parties, with many weapons and ammunition systems previously certified by other parties, so-called trusted partners. An example of this is our F-16. With this motion, for example, we should no longer use our ammunition under the F-16. I can tell you that this has a lot of operational consequences, because then we simply cannot carry out our tasks. The same applies now, for example, to the ammunition used by our Navy. It would mean that the Netherlands would no longer be allowed to use those ammunition. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u51	You're dissuading the motion. It's about the motion in part No. 116. I see Mrs. Belhaj standing by the microphone. Go ahead, Mrs. Belhaj of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u52	Mr President, thank you. I understand what the Secretary of State says. But the point is that this motion has now been tabled following the decision to purchase the mortar grenades. So there is a country that uses it and that has an accelerated way of getting there. Then there is an exemption, because there is an urgent matter. It is not entirely clear to me either, but I think Mrs Diks is trying to prevent the following from ever happening: we need something very quickly, we are using another country which also gives the warning 'attend, we have not approved this party' and then we are being granted an exemption in order to be able to use it quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u53	Mr President, I find this procedurally difficult because Mrs Belhaj, with Mrs Diks' motion, interprets Mrs Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u54	Exactly. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u55	By the way, Mrs Diks has reported this neatly. But that means she can't explain the intention. Mrs Belhaj strongly calls for a number of safeguards to ensure that purchased ammunition is safe. I have indicated that we are applying it, namely by checking ammunition and taking additional action on the basis of the outcome of a risk analysis. In principle, all ammunition must have completed the type rating process. Only if this has not been done can we grant an exemption on the basis of this risk analysis in the context of operational deployment, but it is always limited in terms of time and area of deployment. I do not know how Mrs Diks intended the motion, so I will stick to this explanatory statement. I think it's okay...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u56	I think that is indeed the best way forward. You say: with this argument, I advise against the motion. I think Mrs Diks can then look at the report to determine whether she does not find anything else. It seems very strange to me that we should all be thinking about how Mrs Diks meant something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u57	Mr President, that is not what I am doing. But I'm going to have to advise my parliamentary group on this motion later. I think it's perfectly normal to check with the Secretary of State how she interprets this motion. Otherwise, I am inclined to support this motion, which seems to me to be unwise, because if there is an emergency situation...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u58	I think the Secretary of State has made it clear how she interprets the motion. On the basis of that interpretation, it comes to the judgment "dissuade'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u59	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I have just made it very clear that this would mean that, for example, the F-16 and a very large part of the Navy fleet would no longer be able to deploy their ammunition. That's how I dissuade the motion. I'm going to the motion in part no. 117 by Mrs Karabulut and Mrs Ploumen. I see now that Mrs Karabulut has suddenly changed shape. I see Mr Jasper van Dijk. Yeah, anything's possible. I understand the call on the external hotline, but I would ask the authors to keep this motion. In the debate, I made it very clear that the committee is doing its research. I don't know how she does that. I also do not know what is coming into the hotline and how the committee interprets it. The committee will come forward with its recommendations. I would strongly request that the motion be held. I've indicated that I'm willing to look at how we're decorating the reporting system, including the hotline. Otherwise, I'm gonna dissuade the motion. It's way too early.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u60	Let's see if the petitioners are willing to hold the motion. Mr. Van Dijk may speak instead of Mrs. Karabulut. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u61	Mr President, Mr Van Dijk is going to discuss it with the first author of the motion and, of course, with the second. I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u62	Fine, and then I assume the Secretary of State will ask the petitioners to hold the motion, otherwise it will be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u63	Yes. Thank you to Mrs Ploumen for bringing in the motion that has been held. Otherwise, I wouldn't have had it so easily. Her motion is about what happened in Schaarsbergen and about its detectors. Mrs Ploumen indicated that she realised that this was a delicate issue and about individuals. I have tried to inform the House of this earlier in this way. Of course I am prepared to do so, but not in public. I fully understand the appeal expressed in the motion. I think this motion was held. I find it a little difficult to say anything more about it. I do not know whether this reassures Mrs Ploumen because she has stopped the motion. She's filing it again now. I don't want to say anything about this individually.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u64	Let me see what Mrs Ploumen wishes to do with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u65	Of course, I understand the comments made by the Secretary of State, but could she say something about a time limit for finalisation, for example? I'm just trying to get a little more broad sense of where we are in the process, because we've talked about it. Does the Secretary of State see that this can soon be completed in a good way for those concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u66	I understand the question, but I find it very difficult to answer it, because I indicated in my letter of inquiry that it is custom-made. If I put a deadline on it now, I'll say something about individual customization. I just don't want to do that. I really hope Mrs Ploumen understands this. I would like to leave it at that in this plenary session, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u67	Okay. I see Mrs Ploumen nodding in understanding, so let's leave it at that. Have all the motions and questions been dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u68	The motions are, but the questions aren't yet. At least I have one more question on record. That's the CDA's question about the National Real Estate Company. Maybe the minister and I forgot something, but we'll find out. It is good to establish that we have a large real estate portfolio, as Mrs Bruins Slot knows. We have explicitly included extra money in the Defence Note for investments in real estate, because we are dealing with overdue maintenance. Our latest real estate plan dates back to 2011. That was in another period, where we naturally assumed shrinkage and a different way of rejecting it. You have read that we have written in the Defence Note that we are keeping a number of locations open. We are now also working on a new real estate plan, to see what is still needed and to identify maintenance delays. For things like fire safety, there is already a plan, along with the ILT. We're also looking at food hygiene. I informed you about this in the letter from the Military Health Inspectorate. That's also a risk we're taking. We also have risks when it comes to social security. That is why, for example, we have included Wi-Fi on the alloy in the Defence Note. For example, there are a number of risks that we run. I also mention ammunition safety and lightning guidance. We are therefore still at great risk. So if Mrs Bruins Slot asks me which ones are still open, then there are quite a few. That's exactly why we're making that real estate plan right now. That is what we are doing to make this clear. This hasn't been solved in three years. It will entail a long-term investment period, with investments in it. We also look with the ILT and with the Inspection SZW how we can deal with this together with the RVB. I fully share Mrs Bruins Slot's opinion. Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Karabulut have also asked questions about this. We simply have to resolve this with each other, but that solution takes time, because some buildings are very old and the adjustments take a lot of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u69	It also seems sensible to me to draw up a new real estate plan for the 2011 real estate plan. I think that was sent to the Chamber from 2011. Isn't it? And that's what you're planning on doing with this real estate plan, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u70	Yes, but I would like to give a profit warning to Mrs Bruins Slot: that is not for the summer recess. This requires a lot of work in the sense of analysis. It will really be more insightful towards the end of the year. That's the assessment now based on the information we have. On this basis, we will also prioritize in the sense of what the biggest risks are and what capacity is available at the National Real Estate Company, with which we have to make agreements. We're also looking at the construction sector. In the market, capacity must be available to carry it out at all. So here's the dilemma we're going to have, but first it starts with making clear how big the backlogs are, what risks that entails and what we want to tackle first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u71	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. Then we have come to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-10.u72	Voting time is scheduled for Tuesday 22 May. I shall suspend the sitting and continue the debate on the cryptocurrency at 7.30 p.m.
