ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-40.u1	The next item is the VAO ICT Defence with the first speaker, Mrs Bruins Slot, from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-40.u2	Mr. Chairman. The CDA sees the need to renew ICT in the Defense Department. That's what it takes. Modernisation is crucial for a 21st century military force. Whether in the operational domain or in the context of cyber or in the deployment of a mission, this is necessary for a well-functioning support organisation. It's a big job the Secretary of State has to do. In many ways, the organisation is simply on the right track. However, both the ICT Examination Office and the General Chamber point to the considerable risks and challenges involved. That is also inevitable when you start such a large journey. It is then about recognizing them, controlling them and also mitigating them. The BIT has issued a critical opinion and warns that costs may be substantially higher. That's why I'm filing the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the ICT Review Office (BIT) has twice delivered an opinion on the Defence Frontiering IT (GrIT) programme, making several recommendations, some of which have not yet been implemented;]] [[Considers that BIT opinions contribute to a better understanding of GrIT's risks, an improvement in its design and hence to an IT infrastructure with which Defence can continue to carry out its tasks;]] [[Calls on the Government to prioritize the signature of the contract with the supplier to be selected for GrIT by a new BIT opinion, including the implementation of previous recommendations by the BIT;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber of this BIT opinion, in good time prior to the signing of the contract,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot, Mr Belhaj and Mr Bosman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31125-86]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-40.u3	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the ICT Review Office (BIT) considers it likely that the one-off costs for Defence's Cross-Bordering IT (GrIT) programme will be substantially higher than currently foreseen;]] [[Considering that the possibilities available to Defence for when the programme becomes more expensive than the initial reservation include reducing functionality and lowering the level of IT services, the General Court said;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber in good time if the GrIT programme becomes more expensive than the initial reservation or if the functionality is reduced or the level of IT service is lowered, as the maximum of the reservation has been reached,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot, Mr Belhaj and Mr Bosman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31125-87]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-40.u4	Mr. Chairman. That was minus 0.1 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-40.u5	It was almost punctual. For our spectator in the gallery and undoubtedly more people following the debate: two minutes of speaking time meant that you had the socks in it, just to put it homely. Mrs. Diks isn't here. Mrs Belhaj has indicated that she does not want to make use of her speaking time. Mr Van Dijk had already indicated this, and Mr Bosman has also indicated this. There are no regrets. If the Secretary of State has the motions, she gets the floor. I shall suspend the sitting for a moment so that the Secretary of State can prepare for her response to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-40.u6	The Secretary of State will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-40.u7	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I think that Mrs Bruins Slot correctly summarized it: the need is absolutely present. We also discussed this in the debate. A while ago, in 2014, there were major problems with Defense ICT. Over the past few years, we have worked very hard to ensure that things will continue to run, but we have also started to look at the future: how can we ensure that we get a future-proof IT? We knew that we had to invest extra in it, and that is also evident from the Defence Note, also because IT is just a weapon system. The GrIT, the Cross-Border IT program we are initiating, will be a huge programme for the next ten years, covering the replacement of our entire IT infrastructure, including our data centres. That is not just a matter of fact, and it has been discussed with the Chamber over the last period of time about how we are going to deal with it. Are we gonna do it ourselves? The answer to that question was no. Are we doing a classic tender? The answer to that was: no. Then you actually get what Mrs Bruins Slot has found in the Elias Committee; then you don't know exactly what you're asking for in ten years' time. So how can you do things, especially in cooperation with market players? That is where this competitive dialogue has actually emerged, so we are sitting with market players, and now with two consortia, to see how we can do this in a good way, with good performance indicators, with a bonus-malussystematic but focused on cooperation. So we are also going to conclude a cooperation agreement. I think that the Chamber also had legitimate concerns about the BIT opinions and how they are being followed. They actually lived with all the parties that were present. I think that Mrs Bruins Slot's motion, which she has tabled on behalf of Mrs Belhaj and Mr Bosman, is the summary of the debate we held during the general discussion. In the meantime, I have also contacted the ICT Test Office to see if there is capacity. People think that we can do it, but we have to figure out what the method and the assignment will be and how we are going to do it. So if I can interpret the motion in such a way that we also take with us the follow-up of the recommendations, and the way in which the defence has translated them, then we must succeed within the given tendering period. That's another concern of mine on this motion. If I think there are problems with that, I will inform the Chamber. We also shared this with the ICT Test Office. Mrs Diks is not here now, but she herself said that it must fit within the tendering period. I can see Mrs Bruins Slot nodding now too, so if I can interpret the motion in such a way that the tendering deadlines continue to exist, so that we can continue, but that we have the BIT checked for the implementation of the recommendations and the way in which the Defence Department wants to translate them, then it is: Court judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-40.u8	For the CDA, it is important that the ICT Test Office does this. The approach is indeed to look at the recommendations and their implementation that they have made before. For the CDA, however, care is above speed. So I can sympathize with the Secretary of State when she says: we have to see if the ICT testing office can do this at a certain rate. If the motion is adopted, the CDA can of course also ask the Cabinet, including the Secretary of State of BZK, to release capacity on time. But does the Secretary of State say that if the ICT Examination Office cannot do this within a reasonable time or is going to take a very long time, then am I going to choose an external agency anyway? I wouldn't say to the Secretary of State right now: do the latter. It is really about the ICT testing agency having to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-40.u9	So I've heard. I have also indicated that we now think that it can be done within the given time limit. However, I have also referred to the risks that arise if they fail to do so. Then we're really just running a risk. My suggestion would be that I report that to the Chamber. So I assume that BIT can do it, given the tendering deadlines. If it turns out that it can't be done and there's a kink in the cable somewhere, then I'll come back to the Chamber, because then we also have to make a risk weighting; what do we do? That is how I would like to translate the motion. I think that it is also good to mention that we know that the implementation of some of the recommendations will actually take place until 31 December of this year. For example, Mr Bosman has stressed this point with regard to the reorganisation of the JFC within the Defense Department. We know that it will not be completed on 1 November. So there are a number of recommendations that we know will be primarily about questioning: are you on the right track to meet the deadline of 31 December 2018? I will also discuss this with BIT in this way: that is how we translate it when it comes to whether we are on the right track. The motion in part No. 87, by Mrs Bruins Slot, Mrs Belhaj and Mr Bosman, I would like to inform the Chamber if the programme becomes more expensive than the initial reservation, and about the functionality as well as the level of IT services. I would like to take over this motion. I have also indicated that in the IT progress report I would also like to report the deviations to the Chamber when it comes to large IT projects, so that the Chamber also knows, in bandwidths, as we do with Infrastructure. I want us to report on the bandwidths and inform the Chamber. I think this motion can be properly incorporated into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-40.u10	Let me see if Members object to taking over this motion. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-40.u11	The motion in part No. 87 will not be put to the vote; the other motion will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
