ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u1	I give the floor to Mr Futselaar, on behalf of the SP, for his questions to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media, who replaces the Minister for Education, Culture and Science, on Argos' radio broadcast on the promotion plant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The university as a promotional factory. Scientific titles in sales and promotions for profit. That's the image that emerged from a report of last weekend's radio program Argos. In recent years, the University of Tilburg has brought in record numbers of so-called external PhD students, some of which were presented by a specified American company. A professor succeeds in delivering no less than 77 external PhD students in social psychology in six years. Another professor asks for money through his own company from outside PhD students for his guidance services. And the university itself eventually receives €90,000 per successful PhD candidate and seems to like it all well. I would now like to read a piece from an email I received yesterday about this case from a professor of psychology from another university. This writes: I can assure you that it is humanly impossible to deliver 77 PhD students in six years' time. There's no other way or there's something wrong here. I can't imagine those dissertations having reached the required level. This is detrimental to the prestige of science and of social psychology in particular, and I believe that a sample of the dissertations should be assessed by an independent committee. I've received several of these messages. For example, the PhD-vendi Network Netherlands is also very concerned. That brings me to the following questions. What is the Minister's opinion on promotions as a earning model for a university, such as those in this case? Does he consider it desirable that promotions in this way actually become a earning model? Does the Minister agree with the SP that the course of events at Tilburg University is detrimental to the prestige of Dutch science in general and the PhD in particular? If so, what will the Minister do about it? In the view of the Minister, has the University of Tilburg been an exception or are these practices more common? Is the Minister prepared to give an overview as soon as possible of the number of external PhD students per institution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor. Welcome back, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is indeed nice to be here again. I am replacing my colleague Van Engelshoven who is in charge of G20 talks in Argentina. I would like to thank Mr Futselaar for the questions he asked about Argos' broadcast last Saturday. We know different types of PhD students in the Netherlands. That includes the outside PhD students. They are not intended as a model of earning, but they are there to function as an important link between the university and society. External PhD students can ensure that scientific knowledge is shared more quickly with professional practice and that important societal questions and problems within science are noticed and picked up. It has its value. The broadcast of Argos you are talking about and the examples you mention do indeed raise pressing questions. We didn't miss that. It is important that we do not ignore these questions. We'd like to do that in the right order. For my colleague Van Engelshoven, this broadcast is an opportunity to get in touch with the universities to ask them for clarification about what has been said in it. Secondly, she will also talk to the VSNU to talk to them about the discussion that is now taking place around the outside PhD students and to hear from them what their images and experiences are at the universities they represent. On the basis of these discussions, my colleague will inform the Chamber further and answer your question quantitatively with the figures on outside doctoral candidates you are asking for. We will, of course, try to do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you for your commitment. I'll see if I can get anything else in. Because, of course, there is also a question mark over the quality of the promotions in question. I wonder if the deputy minister is prepared to have the inspection carried out, possibly with the help of other people in the field. I would also like to ask the fundamental question as to what the Minister actually thinks is that so many outside PhD students outside research groups are promoting. There's a limited budget. Most research groups work together in a particular direction, and we have drawn up an agenda for this. In principle, outside PhD students are completely excluded from that. That's okay when it comes to one or two of them, but when it comes to dozens, you actually undermine the whole system at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u6	I think it is important that we also deal very carefully with the outside PhD students. They do important work and have added value, as I mentioned earlier. I think it is right, also in connection with Argos' broadcast, that something more has happened in the past, of course, even in Tilburg, that we should seek contact with them and ask for clarification on what has happened. We are also immediately expanding this by involving the VSNU. I think we will have to use the results to see if further steps are needed. Everything in the right order, not to make it all take unnecessarily long, but to be correct and careful with everyone involved. As I have promised you, we will inform the Chamber as soon as possible when we have this information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thanks to the Minister. The essence of the problem is, of course, that there is a potential earning model for universities in PhD students outside the normal course of action. In order to prevent us from having another debate in six months' time, there is another group of PhD students who are potentially a earning model. These are international PhD students, for example PhD students who receive a scholarship from the China Scholarship Council. Now I sometimes hear sounds that supervisors of such PhD students feel a bit pressured by an institution to make sure that these PhD students succeed, because that is of course also an interest to the institution. I wonder whether the Minister can promise that he will take a look at this, both at the quality of work and at quantitative figures; what is the situation with regard to numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u8	At the moment when this information is sent to the Chamber, as I have just promised on behalf of my colleague, I think that this is also a time to discuss these matters more broadly and carefully with each other than at Question Time. I think that with the commitments you have now received, you have enough ground to hold on to that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I now turn to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u10	I thank the Minister for the answer. It is also good that Minister Van Engelshoven will sit down with universities. That does not happen on every subject, so that is important for this. I have another supplementary question. Mr Futselaar of the SP said that it is humanly impossible to accompany 77 PhD students in this short period of time. And yet the university receives between €70,000 and €90,000 per PhD candidate. That is a fee for a task carried out by the university and not just a reward. So is the Minister also willing to draw the conclusion after this has been properly sorted out that money has gone to university wrongly? And does the Minister have the consequence that that money has to come back? Because you don't get paid for something you didn't do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u11	I just indicated that Argos' broadcast is indeed a reason to have these conversations. Indeed, it is not customary for every subject to do so directly. I do insist that we do this in a careful way. So give my colleague the opportunity to have these talks and to inform the Chamber further. On this basis, we can see whether further steps are needed and, if necessary, we can draw conclusions as you have already drawn on the basis of the broadcast alone. I therefore believe that we will first have to go through this intermediate phase in the context of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr. Chairman. The VVD really likes that people can work out their academic curiosity in a promotional process alongside their work. I think there are very nice, inspiring examples of how society and science exchange. As far as we are concerned, being an outside doctoral candidate is a very good opportunity to do so. The Minister comes up with figures, but in my opinion the question is simply whether the quality of PhD research and the academic independence we expect from it meet the same standards as in 'intern PhD students'. My question to the Minister is therefore, above all, whether he would like to answer those key research questions in the list of figures he gives us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u13	If the conversation is conducted with Tilburg, also in the light of the concrete cases that have been discussed in the broadcast and which indeed raise questions, it is possible to do so in such a time frame and what does that mean for quality? It goes without saying that quality demands should also be taken into account. After you have had the report, the debate can continue on what we consider desirable and what is possible within the legal framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr. Chairman. It is good that the Minister is discussing this issue with the universities. Mr Futselaar asked if an independent committee should check this, but as far as I know, every dissertation is read by an independent committee. That's at least two, three, four people from the field. Does the Minister also want to discuss this standing practice with the universities and come back to it in the letter that is to come? Then it can be checked whether all universities and all types of PhD students are indeed looking at an independent committee on the texts of the dissertations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. As I have just said, the quality question will of course also be asked in the discussions. Of course, this includes whether we are simply carrying out what we have secured in legislation and regulations in order to monitor quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr Bruins' second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u17	My second question is whether the Minister is also prepared to examine in the discussions whether there are certain directions, disciplines or currents where having outside PhD students is the custom. Are there areas that are more sensitive to this than others? Then what's the motivation to have so many? As Mr Van der Molen said, you cannot have 70 PhD candidates. In the fields I know, there are four PhD candidates per staff member. Then you're already at your tax. My question is whether there are areas that lend themselves to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u18	As promised, we will provide the figures with the letter you are about to receive. It also includes the reporting of the conversations that have taken place. It will make it clear where the outside PhD students are located.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you.
