ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u1	We will continue with the debate on abuses in pig stables. I give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66 as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The reason D66 has requested this debate is that we, like many others, have seen the images of Pigs in Emergency, which we are shocked about. You see sick, crippled pigs, you don't see enough room for movement in stables and you see an air quality that leaves a lot to be desired, which you wouldn't want your children to play in. Those facts are not contested by anyone. There is a nuance, but even if you read the report of the Animal Health Service, there is structural pressure on animal health and animal welfare, which stems from the way we organised it in the Netherlands. We are talking about a high percentage of sows, between 5% and 6% of piglets, about 14%. They're bald numbers, but they're animals. There has been a halving of care time by scaling up the farmer's piglets in the last 10 years. That also has to do with the higher pitch of sows. About 20 years ago, that was 23, and that's 30 now, and maybe we're going to 40. The lofts, the space, the pig itself are not adapted to that higher pitch. That also gives you the logical death rate. And you also get ear and tail bites. Is there enough distraction? These are things that you simply have to look at objectively, and I would like to point out that I am not looking at individual farmers for this. We, as D66, are explicitly looking at how we can improve the system, so that it is good for the farmer and also for animal health and animal welfare. Then I'm not comfortable with the Minister's letter either. Because the checks show that more than a third of farms do not have one or two animal health issues. Of the control rate of 350 holdings on 5,000 pig farms..................................................................................................................................................... I also see the restrictions on increasing that percentage, but an infringement has been found in one in ten companies. From the sector it is more or less said that this is not so bad at all. The Minister talks regularly with the sector and I am therefore curious to see what she actually thinks of that. Does the Minister think that's a good score? Or is she a little more critical of that? How is the Minister going to bring down that number of violations? A third aspect is the fact that the stables are becoming more and more full.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u3	Animal shacks are dealt with by animal police and control. The NVWA cannot handle the work, as Mr De Groot knows. They're dealing with meat scandals, egg scandals, you name it. They can't handle the work. The PVV, with the support of the Party for Animals only, has asked for 500 animal police officers. They are needed, Madam President, to follow up on all reports of 144, to check livestock transports and zoos.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u4	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u5	Why, in particular, did D66, which has requested this debate, destroy the full-time animal police? Now they're parttimers who can't handle the work anymore. Why doesn't D66 support my full-time animal police?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u6	We have committed ourselves, within the framework of the government agreement, to more and better animal welfare controls. Exactly what you want. It has been found that 20 million extra will be made available to the NVWA for food safety and animal welfare controls. That is very concrete, which can improve controls. Are we going to bring the animal police you want to see to the level you want? I don't think so, but we took quite a step there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u7	We said ten years ago that boas, extraordinary detectives, assholes and aggression can no longer cope. Then State Forestry said: we want hostage, we don't want resilience, we don't want general investigators. Now they're asking for it. I told you ten years ago. Also in these livestock houses, in slaughterhouses, in cattle transports and in mischief like ritual torture, people with police and criminal jurisdiction must be admitted. They won't be sent away. 'Cause then you're gonna get handcuffed and you're gonna come along, and you're gonna have a problem. We need to move from boas to general investigators, the animal police. Those are armed people with police, criminal jurisdiction. Why doesn't Mr. De Groot support me in that? Why not? And they are accompanied by a veterinarian, by an expert veterinarian. A policeman and a vet, end of exercise for those bastards. Ready, apple egg!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u8	I am not going to say anything about Mr Graus. These are farmers and farmers who are trapped in a system. From D66 we want to make that system so that it is good for the farmers and good for the animals. In that connection, I have another critical question. We have once agreed that it is a legal obligation to have six weeks in stables for animals in the event of an animal disease crisis, because these animals must not be transported. What about that? 'Cause if those stables are getting fuller, is that room still there? Is that what the Secretary of State is maintaining? And how do we tackle these structural animal health problems? Please don't get another report. We already had Nijpels, we already had Rosenthal and the best thing that comes out of the sector is a research program. Those are not the steps we stand for. That's gotta be different. The sector itself has developed a chain quality system. The sector itself has the ambition to stand out in the world with that system, called Holland Pig, it is a framework of standards, and to really be better, including in the field of animal health and animal welfare. But then you have to do it right. And then you see, first of all, that only 80% of pig farmers are covered by that standard framework. Secondly, it must also be so compelling that this kind of structural matter is actually being resisted. So the request to the Minister is also: are you prepared to sit down with the sector to look at the possibilities of tightening up that framework of standards, including private enforcement, so that this kind of structural animal health problems will in future become a thing of the past? This includes matching the control capacity of the NVWA with this. That is actually what we see from D66 as the most important solution to a very serious problem, which is not very good for farmers and farmers as well as for the animals themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u10	I'm just trying to understand what D66 is saying here. On the one hand, it is compelling, on the other hand, it is yet another call to sit down with the sector. I have a specific question about piglets' mortality. In 2009, CDA Minister Verburg said that the piglets mortality rate was too high in 2008 and had to go down. The sector was given ten years to do so. At the end of this year, according to its own sectoral plan, it should reach 10.5%. They're not gonna make it. We are now at 13.6%; it has risen instead of falling. What does D66 do if these non-binding sectoral agreements are not met after ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u11	I'm as critical of that as the Party for Animals. You cannot continue to express ambition after ambition to improve it and now only come up with a research agenda. It can't be. But D66 also believes in the industry's own strength to solve cases. And it is not so much among those who make these kinds of agreements, but rather in the processing industry. They take away the pigs and they can indeed ensure that quality is improved. Eventually they have to sell the meat and make money for the farmer. I think that this relationship needs a review. That's why I think the quality system is the key. I do not believe that, as a government, we can put an inspector on every farmer. That's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u12	The piglets' mortality rate was generally referred to as "unacceptable high' by a CDA minister who was not the most activist animal rights defenders in the world ten years ago. We're not gonna make it, and then D66 says, "We're gonna start talking again, but with a wider part of the sector." It's a deal, isn't it? We know what needs to be done, don't we? D66 itself says that more and more piglets are born. So stop to start with the breeding on those big pitches. That could be a measure that we can agree and maintain with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u13	For many years now, the problem in the sector has been that agreements are made with parties that cannot enforce agreements. That's what happens every time. The other constant is that the government can't either. We have to see that together here. If you say the government has to solve it all with checks and new rules, that's not gonna work. In the end, the sector must decide for itself how it wants to stand in society. There are countless farmers who are doing very well and suffer just as much from such abuses. There are stables in which nothing has been invested for five years. That's where the problem lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mr. Weverling. Oh, Mrs Ouwehand's third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u15	Yes, I would very much like Mr De Groot to explain why the government cannot do this. It can be agreed that sows may not throw more than twelve pigs per pitch, with possibly a margin, because you cannot plan this very sec in advance. All animals must be registered in the Netherlands. So you can check this out. Why should the government not be able to impose an obligation on the sector to do so, so that the sector itself stops breeding on those extra-large throws?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u16	I think Mrs Ouwehand herself should almost laugh at this question, if it were not so serious. You just can't do this. You can't say: you get a fine in 13 piglets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u17	Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u18	I'm sorry, but I really don't think this is realistic. If you make such proposals, I sometimes get the impression that you do not want to solve the problem. We are going for a real solution to the problem. That means you have to improve the system. We can't keep pretending in this Chamber that the government can solve all this. This is the way to change the system. It's in those private quality systems. Every pig has an annual check. Those standards should be such as to improve animal health. Then we'll work on a solution. It's possible. In the dairy sector, there are good quality systems that everyone is involved in, which are strict and where the penalty is that you are no longer allowed to supply. That is what the pig sector must want, but then you have to make agreements with the good people. That is also the question to the Minister. I really want a very good and firm commitment from the Minister on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u19	You blamed Mrs Ouwehand. It is therefore entitled to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u20	I would like to put my final question to you, because I am actually glad that D66 feels so terribly attacked and feels compelled to say that the system needs to change. We're incredibly agreeable with each other. I've asked for a measure within the system. D66 is not changing that system at all, because D66 runs away from a shrinkage of livestock and runs away from the discussion about the need to eat less meat and then says that it is unrealistic to want to impose within the system one legal standard that D66 was in favour of before it began to govern. D66 says here: the sector may rule and the animals may die.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u21	I would very much like to respond to that. This is exactly the testimony. It is a whole problem, including tail bites, sow loss and all kinds of other things, including ammonia. There is much more than just this one measure. You can't do this with symbolic politics. The Party for Animals only acts as a symbolism. You need to improve the whole system, and we're in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mistakes must of course be dealt with. Before pigs go to the slaughterhouse, of course, they are always checked. We have the NVWA and the Research Agenda on Pigs Farming. What exactly does D66 want to change about the system? That's not entirely clear to me. What system change stands for D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u23	The system we now have, so a private quality system, is apparently unable to prevent the abuses that exist. By this I simply mean the objective facts that have been established by the GD and are not contested by the sector; those facts are correct. So that's what I really think of system failure. Then we are talking about respiratory diseases, which are because the stables are not functioning properly and because there is too much ammonia. Then we're talking about joint disorders. Then we're talking about skin diseases. It's all written down. These are expressions of a system which is under excessive economic pressure and which not all farmers can come up with. This is partly due to insufficient enforcement from the private systems on the whole, not on individual measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u24	So that has nothing to do with the supervision of the NVWA, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u25	The Minister's letter says that there are 350 controls on 5,100 companies, I think. Then you still have 10% violations. That's just a drop on a glowing plate; it's too little. You are talking about checks at the slaughter line, but this is really about checks in the stable for animal welfare. That will always be too little when there is so much pressure on the system, because you can never get to all those companies. That is why the sector itself, for all those piglets who end up in the slaughterhouse, must ensure that the quality system works. It's not working enough right now. That's what they say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u26	Mr De Groot and my party differ on the role of the government in agriculture. I will not go into that, because then I too will be accused of testimony policy. But Mr De Groot says he wants more private systems from the sector itself. We note that within the pig chain the pig farmers are actually the weakest party. Customers have a lot of power, feeds have a lot of power and so on. The other parties do not really benefit much from an improvement in the situation. The farmers themselves may want that, but customers simply want meat as cheap as possible, to put it simply. Does this have a chance of success without any direction from the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u27	I think that is a fair question. We've had a discussion about this before. I believe that we do not disagree on the analysis of the problem, but on the solution. I really believe there's definitely a role for the government. That is why we are addressing the Minister. This is also the place to address the Minister. As a government, we can't let this go our way. Your assumption that the processor, i.e. the link in the chain, would not have an interest in that good quality, I fight. It is the sector itself that, just abroad, wants to create the image of the best system in the world with Holland Pig. Then it must be true. They also recognize that it's okay to have a tooth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u28	As a result, I would like to ask Mr De Groot whether he thinks that 'the Netherlands as an exporting country of high quality meat' is the reality or 'the Netherlands as an exporter of as cheap as possible meat'. My estimate is that it's still much more the latter than the former.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u29	I'm afraid so, too. This means that the only response of pig farmers to these kinds of challenges can be cost reduction and scaling up. From D66 I would rather argue for scale reduction: make sure you distinguish yourself with smaller and finer chains in the market. The star chains are already an example of this. Those are concepts that work and that show that it can be done. For example, with three stars you don't have to couple tails, you have far fewer diseases and a much better animal health. That kind of chains, with scaling, show that it can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u30	I am glad that D66 has requested this debate. I think that's a good sign. Furthermore, I am pleased that Mr De Groot has stressed that you need to look at the system, that you need to look at system change. However, I do think that Mr De Groot does not make that very concrete. I would therefore like to ask him another question. There is actually no economic future for a large number of pig farms. The annual income of 57% of pig farmers in Brabant is below €23,000. Pig farmer has €43,000 per year in manure disposal costs. If you look at this situation on the basis of these two figures alone, does Mr De Groot agree with me that we will actually have to allow this system change to be accompanied by a shrinkage in the pig population?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u31	This cabinet has said that it will allocate 200 million ECU, which is a considerable amount of money to clean up where there are problems with people living around and with health and the environment. That will of course mainly concern North Brabant and perhaps North Limburg, because those are the provinces with the highest livestock density. If you withdraw those rights from the market, it has the side effect of reducing the pressure on the manure market. Where there are local problems and pig farmers want to stop, you facilitate that. So the answer is yes. It is true that this government is also correcting the intensive livestock sector D66 has also argued in favour of this so that the good, viable farms can continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u32	Would it perhaps be wise to ask the Minister from the Chamber to study the relationship between the pressure on the manure market and the size of the pig population? I fully agree with you that the pressure must be removed from the manure market because otherwise we really cannot manage it, not even those improved stables that all require investment and what the money is not for now. If you examine that, we will get a little more ground under our feet about what size of the pig population in the Netherlands could be economically viable and sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u33	I think there are already studies on the elasticity of the manure market and the manure disposal costs. In any case, I think you can see that this clean-up, together with the 200 million, is going to contribute to a balance in the manure market. At the same time, of course, you can see how you can use that money smartly to facilitate a number of investments. Maybe that way you can raise the amount. So this way you're not only going to clean up but also invest on a limited scale and you're actually doing something about the manure market. I do not think you can say: we are going to strike a balance on that manure market from the government. That seems very difficult to me, but this will bring a considerable improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u34	Mr Grashoff for his third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u35	Yeah, I'm gonna put in a third question anyway, because I think this is very relevant. I have also looked for studies that make the link between the pressure on the manure market and the size of the pig pile understandable. It has appeared to me that these are only very few available and are not brought out with very much self-confidence. So there really is another knowledge gap. Does Mr De Groot agree with me that if you go in the direction of investment and at the same time shrinking the pig population, it is extremely important that we take control of it from the government as the holder of the animal rights system, the pig rights system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u36	That's too much for me. I am really curious and I would also like to hear from the Minister how many rights you are going to take out and what consequences this will have for the manure disposal contracts. It is indeed crazy that an average farm has lost almost €50,000 in manure disposal. That's a decent income in itself. I can also imagine that the Minister will deal with this in the context of her letter on the reform of pig farming, but I would like to pass on this question. I don't see much of a definitive direction on the manure market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u37	I agree with Mr De Groot's analysis that the government cannot solve this problem exclusively and that it will also have to come from the industry itself. There are, of course, examples of branches that have quality codes and quality control systems with an obligation to audit. Is Mr De Groot prepared to support an appeal to the Minister to make agreements with the industry in order to achieve such self-regulation, so that quality systems can be established with compulsory auditing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u38	Yes, that was also the essence of my question. Maybe you came in a little later, but at least I'll repeat it again. The request to the Minister concerns precisely the systems that exist. I refer to Holland Pig, which accounts for 80% of pig farmers, where it is important that it is completely covered. Furthermore, it is important that it becomes so adequate that it works, that it does not contradict the facts that we have found here and that there is a private sanctioning. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u39	I understand that Mr De Groot says that there is an obligation on the sector to be organized and on companies to be monitored periodically. Mr De Groot also mentioned the customers. There's a responsibility there, too. We have the Better Life hallmark. Does Mr De Groot support the idea of gradually making the Better Life label mandatory and bringing it to a high level, and calling on the Minister to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u40	No, because that is precisely a very good example of a private initiative that creates in the market chains that distinguish themselves, and can therefore also achieve an additional price. If you're gonna kill it, you're gonna have to make this happen. So I'm definitely not for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u41	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Pigs are very social and clever animals. They are self-conscious, have a complex form of thinking and have an extensive repertoire to communicate with each other. They are cheerful and smart, and similar to children of 4. If they had the chance, they'd live in family groups and spend a lot of their time wandering around the ground looking for food. They would explore their surroundings and so travel daily a distance of up to 15 kilometers. If they had the chance, they'd take a mud bath on hot days. Pigs can't sweat, and that's their way of cooling off and keeping themselves clean. Pigs are also very clean. But they're not gonna get that chance. D66 mentioned a system change. We would like to believe that the party is committed to this, but I have not heard any proposals for it. The only thing that needs to be done, and most importantly, is that pig farming, like all other livestock farms in the Netherlands, will be transformed into a holding in which these animals are given due consideration during a transitional period. Jan Terlouw said it in 2015: how can we think that we can do to these animals, deprive them of freedom of movement, of the ability to breathe fresh air? Let me take a look at Mr De Groot. It does not appear that he took Mr Terlouw's words to heart. Mr. Chairman. There's been some footage of how it's going in pig farming. The Minister reacted shockedly, but why? Why is the cabinet not shocked until we are presented with it, when we see that animals are sick, that they have been eaten, that they are walking around with swellings, that the lofts are soiled, that the air is bad? We all know this already. Report after report after report after report mentions this. Why is it necessary to get a picture before we can say: oh, it's really bad? I see there's a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u43	I thought you'd finish your story first, but Mr Geurts would like to ask you something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In her intro, Mrs. Ouwehand talked about her dream world. If that dream world were to come true, would she eat meat?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u45	Definitely not. I don't think any living creature wants to be slaughtered. So even though animals can have it much and much and much better than they do now in the usual farming in the Netherlands, for me personally I will never make the choice to have an animal that doesn't want to die kill for my delicious appetite.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u46	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u47	Mr. Chairman. We know enough about it. The air in the pigsty is downright toxic. More than half of the pigs in the Netherlands have pneumonia. We are talking about 12.5 million animals a year. 40% have pleuritis. That's pleural inflammation, an even more painful infection. That's 10 million a year. Stomach ulcers, bladder inflammation, puncture wounds, claw problems, umbilical fractures, inflamed tails, blood ears, inflamed joints, inflamed eyes, swelling, apathy, frustration, stress, anxiety and aggression. The list is endless and deeply embarrassing. And it won't stop. A pig in nature gets 5 to 7 young when they give birth, in livestock there are now 15 per pitch, 30 per year. The result is that many pigs come into the world weak and miserable and die of diarrhea or hypothermia. If they're not beaten to death by the farmer against the wall. CDA Minister Verburg, I repeat, CDA Minister Verburg called the piglets mortality rate too high, 12.9% in 2008. That had to be reduced and the sector was allowed to make a plan of its own as always. It didn't go down, it went up. It's 13.6% now. While piglets' mortality should have fallen to 10.5% by the end of this year. The production of 35 million piglets per year still involves more than 3.5 million animals. So it wasn't that ambitious. I want to know, is the minister holding up the deal? The sector has had ten years. Does it share the principles, which Minister Verburg said at the time, that piglets should be able to drink from their own mother? Because if we are going to deal with piglets' mortality as the sector does, we are going to have to deal with situations like this. Hypothermia of pigs on their ears in a bath of warm water. Mr President, I would like to hand this picture over to the Minister to underline the need for a radical change of course and a transition to a pig farm in which we do justice to these animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u48	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u49	Mr. Chairman. It has already been said more or less by Mrs Ouwehand. Pigs are very intelligent animals. They have a very high proportion of brain cells, which are quite close to humans, but they are much more hypersensitivity than humans. I find it scandalous how this is handled, and with us millions of Dutch people, let that be very clear. But I would have liked to say, even after my debate with Mr De Groot of D66, whom I, by the way, appreciate very much as a human being, that it is clear that most farmers are trying to do everything to their honour and conscience. So when I'm talking about assholes, I say to Mr. De Groot, of course I'm talking about the bastards everywhere. For 11 years we have been calling for a butcher not to have his own meat inspected, as well as a qualitative and quantitative increase in the capacity for detection and a tough approach and punishment of animal executioners. We are sick of the disgusting abuses in slaughterhouses, during transports and other recidivists in the rest of the chain. The Minister very often shares our concern and anger. She always does that very neatly, but I get the impression that more needs to be done with the fist, that there needs to be more action. The Minister is often in conversation with relevant actors and promises to improve. I want more, Madam President. It's about animals. That must be addressed by the minister as a religious person. The animals were there before humans, whether you believe in evolution or in the creation story. We have a good and respectful way of dealing with it. Perhaps I will also immediately remove rejected PVV-motions, I do not know if that is necessary, to impose a life-long ban on the keeping and/or transport of animals, a Berufsverbot, a professional ban as we say in Dutch. I would also like to ask what progress has been made with the investigation to prevent misery during cattle transports. We also asked for mobile killing stations and carcass transport to prevent those miserable animal transports. Because there is a lot of misery going on there, even according to NVWA doctors. Madam President. I've actually been asking for full-time animal police as long as I've been here. I finally got those animal police after five years of hard fighting. It was indeed destroyed by a D66 motion. Nota bene a former commissioner, who was then MP at D66, filed that motion, when she should have known better because she came from the police and that she knows how serious it is with the animals. But I've been warning you for 11 years that a boa, an extraordinary detective, isn't possible anymore. In fact, ten years ago, I asked for arms, resilience, support from general investigators and support from arrest teams. They've been deployed twice in Brabant to help forest rangers. I got angry calls from the State Forestry Board: stop it, we want hostage, we don't want resilience and we don't want armament! Now those idiots, to name them so, come so much later than my requests from ten years ago saying that they can't handle it anymore, that they want armament. I was way ahead of time, Madam President, and I am way ahead of my time in this too. Listen to the one who's been infiltrating this for decades. I started in 1986 about animal police, about an emergency number and prison sentences for animal executioners, a veterinary forensic team. I'm not a retard. I really know what's going on. I've gone into politics to do all that, and there's a lot of it already. We really need to go to full-time animal police, which supports NVWA veterinarians in slaughterhouses, in controls or ritual tortures where NVWA doctors are often intimidated. They get scared and don't report it, not even to the minister, because they're afraid to lose their jobs; then they think "you're too weak, you go." Those people are squeezing him. Support those people! Make sure there's animal police! The animal police would also be the return of the forest, dune and field police to support forest rangers. Where the hell are they? Why did D66 kill them, why? It was very successful and it wasn't a cut at all. Now they're all doing other bullshit work. I would have liked to have had a reaction to this, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u51	I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u52	Do you have any thoughts about your heart?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u53	I'll tell you, Madam President. I am often told that, but I don't think anyone sleeps as quietly with such calm breathing and heartbeat as I do, because I throw out everything that gets in my way by the hour and by the minute. Then it's off me!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u54	Thank you for sharing that with us, and we'll remember that. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The debate is expected to go back to a fixed pattern with the two polarities. The one line is likely to be of "see what kind of abuses occur in the sector, which is a disgrace, which needs to be tackled hard and the government has an important role to play in this." And there will be a line of "see how leading our agricultural sector is; the NVWA controls 350 companies and in less than 10% of cases infringements are detected, so more than 90% work perfectly." Mr President, what is the truth about this? I quote farmer Huizinga, who once sighed on Radio Noord: "Truth is nothing more than the small piece of reality that man can accept." I think that this is a situation where everyone should get over their own truths and see how to make real systematic improvements in the sector. The PvdA believes that there are too many incidents with manure, with ammonia emissions, with animal welfare. All these incidents together create a structural problem. Harmful to society, harmful to the reputation of the sector, harmful to the environment, nature and animal welfare. A structural problem requires a structural approach. I was very pleased with Mr De Groot's contribution, because he is right when he says that the government cannot regulate everything and cannot solve all the problems. Business has an explicit role to play in this too, and a better form of self-regulation will have to be introduced. In the other business community, it is very common to expose business operations to quality controls and audit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u56	I understand you're trying to correct something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u57	For the Acts. My name was mentioned in connection with the fact that the government cannot regulate everything, but I do believe that the government should take care of everything. Mr. De Groot said his name also starts with "Gr."" that the government can't arrange everything, but that wasn't me; you mentioned my name.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u58	I believe that this is a genuine mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u59	Then I don't count it as interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u60	I can say to Mr Graus that the government does indeed have an important role to play, but as a final point. The primary responsibility lies with the business community itself. In many industries, quality standards are used and companies are subject to periodic audits, so that it can be established whether they work according to law and quality standards. My question to the Minister is: does she recognise that this structural problem with animal welfare, but also additional problems such as damage to nature and the environment, must be solved by introducing a mandatory industry-wide quality control system with mandatory auditing? Is it prepared to discuss this matter with the industry and to conclude agreements on it? The second line advocated by the PvdA is that agreements are made with customers in the sector, i.e. with the meat processing industry and retailers. Standards have been developed, but they are not yet mandatory. I am referring in particular to the Better Life label that has been introduced. By introducing and making the Better Life label mandatory, you could gradually improve animal welfare, first by setting one star as a minimum, although there should be a stepping stone to eventually achieve a two- or three-star system in the sector that will become dimensional and normative. Is the Minister prepared to agree on this with the meat processing industry and the retail sector and to raise it to standard and standard? This will provide better quality and a better price for entrepreneurs and will inevitably lead to a clean-up of the sector, a warm clean-up of the PvdA, because it has also been the government that has created and maintained this problem. The farmers are stuck in the production compulsion. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u61	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. I now give the floor to Mr Grashoff on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mr. Chairman. The problems in pig farming have been on the agenda for years, they are structural. It doesn't really get any better either. It gets slightly better in some areas in some companies, but not structuralally across the whole sector. At the same time, we must note that there is actually no economic future for a significant part of pig farmers. I didn't think of that; studies show this. We also see it in the extremely low annual revenue. If you see, as has been established by Connecting Agri & Food, that 57% of farmers in Brabant have an income of up to €23,000 per year, it is not surprising that there are a large number of problems in this sector. That means that the rack is so out that it's just trying to keep its head above water by pushing the cost even further and not investing, in nothing. This is the characteristic of a sector which needs a structural and thorough review. That is what I hear in Mr De Groot's words. I do not know if we can find each other entirely on that, but I think there are a number of aspects. By the way, this means that it is up to the government. It is not the case that the sector is capable of effectively transforming itself in a proper and socially responsible way. This might still be possible if there were large-scale industry, but not now that there are a large number of relatively small-scale family businesses. And they remain so, small-scale, not so much in numbers of pigs, but in terms of the strength of the enterprise. It is therefore necessary to involve the public authorities intensively in order to bring about such a restructuring and renewal in the sector. One of the things that I believe we cannot walk away from is that there is a clear relationship between the size of these livestock, the herd of pigs, and these issues. It is the most impregnant expression in the pressure on the manure market. If this pressure were to be removed, the remaining pig farmers would have considerably improved their economic prospects. Manure fermentation is not the solution, because it does not reduce costs. We spend incredibly much extra public money on that, but in the end the pig farmer at the gate must continue to pay exactly the same price to get rid of his manure. For example, he contributes to the average of €43.000 manure disposal costs per year. So if we want to bring that down further, we are in the process of subsidising an economic sector by general means, and ultimately trying to sell something on the market. I don't think this is customary. I look towards parties like the VVD, which are for a certain sense of market economy. Even GroenLinks is in this sense for market economy. In the end, you have to make a product that actually has an added value on the market. The volume of production in the pig sector is an important cause of the problems. There is a need to invest in the sector, but this cannot be done in the part of the sector that no longer has an economic future. The most sensible thing is to reduce the sector, because that means that there is an economic future for the remaining companies and that investment can be made there. For example, we could look at whether we have not only one star and three stars for pork, and indeed only 4% have three stars, namely organic production, but also the two stars of pork actually lie on the shelf. Then we can initiate developments to two stars as the norm. This can only be achieved with substantial investments in sustainable stables. There's no such investment space right now. See also a relationship to climate issues and biodiversity issues. If we want to tackle the ammonia problem, which is a very big problem, then we need to change the stables and reduce the emissions. I'm out of time. There are people who sometimes complain that reducing livestock is an end in itself for GroenLinks. The opposite is the case. There seems to be still a dominant trend to have, against better knowledge, the aim of maintaining the size of the pig population. The minister would make history if she broke with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u63	Thank you. Mr Geurts has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u64	Mr. Chairman. I can't imagine a farmer willingly making animals suffer. Let me be clear at the beginning of my speech. As far as the CDA is concerned, abuses must be addressed and preferably prevented. Pig farmers and heirs have their own responsibility to prevent abuses. I would like to say to pig farmers and heirs: card abuses. This is in the interests of themselves and in the interests of the whole sector. We must bear in mind that abuses are often linked to the psychic state of the animal farmer at the time and sometimes to the financial situation of the farm. It requires an approach to be taken close to the keeper of the animals. Fortunately, more and more attention is being paid to this by, for example, heirs. With our Dutch animal welfare rules we belong to the top of the world. I think a farmer wants to take good care of his animals. Not only from the point of view of animal welfare and animal health, but also because healthy animals have a positive impact on the financial return of his holding. And yes, although there is still such good care, animals can get sick or even die. The government is working with pig farming on improvements. With research and cooperation we step by step improve the way we keep the cattle in the Netherlands. Pig farmers themselves make great efforts for improvements. In this way, we can see that the use of antibiotics in livestock farming, particularly in pig farming, has been greatly improved by reducing the use and use of critical antibiotics. We also see that antibiotic resistance has decreased. The CDA is also in favour of a proactive and constructive dialogue between citizens and farmers. Here's what I want to say about the footage. There is a big difference between clubs that are legally focused on the rights of animals and on the other hand clubs and individuals that, over and over again, are conscious of the boundaries of the law and engage in illegal actions. Those animal rights extremists need to be dealt with as hard as they can. They may pose a danger to humans and animals by their actions. Not only do these animal rights extremists enter private territory and farmers' families feel threatened, they can also bring diseases. Recently I heard that hundreds of cows have been released in Germany, causing very dangerous situations for animals and humans. So it's still up to date. In the past, brochures and e-learning modules have been made available by the government on how to deal with animal rights extremists. I've been trying to look them up in the last few days, because I know they exist, but they're actually not finding them digital anymore. I have the following questions. Is the Minister prepared to review the brochure and the modules together with her colleague of Justice and Security on topicality and make the latest versions available to our farmers again? Is it also prepared to look at whether an app offers opportunities for farmers, so that they can make reports, see what is happening in their environment and where animal rights extremists are active, so that they can warn each other in time and contact the police? I would like to receive a commitment from the Minister on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u65	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. I now turn to Mr Futselaar, who speaks on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is something very wrong with the way some pig farmers deal with their animals. This is evident from the shocking images brought out by Pigs in Emergency and this is also evident from the underlying report. This report shows, for example, that animals often die like pigs. We read that animals suffer from infections, respiratory problems and lameness on a large scale. Bone disorders and stomach problems are more rule than exception. Actually, I can go on like this for a while, but everyone's been able to see a report. The core is that it is not a feast to be raised as one of the 12 million pigs in the Dutch cattle industry. The images have not left the Minister unmoved, as she has communicated to us. That's a lot of hope. But the crucial question, of course, is simply: what now? What can we do to eradicate abuses and how are we going to ensure that animals in the Dutch livestock industry can at least be kept under somewhat dignified conditions? I ask the Minister if she sees additional measures from the government as an option. We are certainly shocked when we read that the NVWA has detected irregularities in 104 of the 350 companies inspected. That's a high percentage of irregularities. We are also shocked when we read that the highest fine imposed was the amount of EUR 4,500 due to the scale of some of these companies. This shows that there is not only work to be done within the sector, but also in the area of enforcement, especially if you look at the total size of the pig farms and the major humanizing problems that the NVWA has. The POV picked up the glove. The Animal Health Service confirms the findings. We are pleased that pig farmers say that they are going to work to improve the welfare of their animals. That's what deserves compliments. However, the SP would like to stress that the results should not be limited to a well-meaning and well-stocked research agenda, which Mr De Groot has already mentioned without concrete and binding follow-up steps, as we have seen too often in the past. We call on the Minister to ensure that this process continues. We look forward to the Wageningen University's research into suitable loft enrichment materials. We hope to be able to talk about this before the summer. There is another point we would like to discuss before the summer, namely the renewed action plan against barn fires. In the last week, there have been several barn fires. Although they were not pigs stables, we note that the problem is there, resulting in the unnecessary death of tens of thousands of animals. That action plan would come to us soon, before the summer, but yesterday we read in the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs that there will be agreements with insurers and measures by 2019. That's quite a difference. So I would like to know whether we will have that action plan before the summer. Otherwise we will have to do something ourselves. We also read this week that animal numbers in the poultry and pig sectors are being reported on a large scale. It is not small beer, because 36% of the holdings inspected were found to keep more animals than they would claim under animal rights. This raises questions about the overall size of ammonia emissions and the manure pile, for example, but it also suggests that the animals have a much tighter housing than is laid down on paper. So I would like a response from the Minister to that too. Finally, Mr President, because this debate is also a bit about the contradiction between public intervention and intervention in the private market. If you are actually asking me what is the difference between my position and that of, for example, D66 and that of the Labour Party, that is that I believe in market forces. That is, if you let the market do its job, as much as possible is produced at the lowest possible cost, with the consequences that it has. In a chain with an unequal distribution of power, the largest power party will go for profit maximization at the expense of the other. What the market isn't is a good cause. Then you should not expect any steps in that direction either. I wanted to leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u67	Mr Geurts has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u68	I was thinking for a moment about the beginning of Mr Futselaar's speech, in which he, in my words, congratulated the sector and talked about concrete goals, payability and so on. I'd like to get on with that. Mrs Ouwehand spoke of pigs, I refer to that wild boar which runs 15 kilometres and where in nature there is a drop-out rate of 50%. Fortunately, this is much lower in pig farming. You can't just bring that down. It's not a computer where you say twelve piglets, fourteen teats, and if you don't meet that, you can't be born. That's not how it works in creation. How does Mr Futselaar see the settlement of such goals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u69	I see two directions in that. First of all, I call something like air quality in a stable. You can objectively determine them, and you can also send them. I understand what Mr Geurts says: mortality or non-mortality, sometimes animals die. It happens. It's harder to maintain. But about something like the air quality in a stable, you can just make agreements and you can do measurements there. At the same time, I also think that the rate of piglets' mortality is not really acceptable, I do not think I am the only one in this area. You could say that you do not necessarily have to pay a fine per company per big died, but it must be feasible to make agreements as a sector in order to reduce this percentage. On the one hand, therefore, I do see standards as a means for me at company level, and on the other hand, sectoral agreements to ensure that the percentage falls at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u70	This is what I am concerned about at the heart of the matter. Paper's patient. You can write down those percentages, one tenth more, one tenth less. If you've done it a few tenths less, you've done it very well et cetera. But that's not the point. It's about the creation that you can't just influence. A global breeding organisation is asking to work on this.I may be an expert in this area, but this is not easy at all. So my question to the SP Group is once again: when it comes to the mortality of piglets, we cannot have such very specific objectives. We can't say: if you don't make it, is it exit for that pig farmer or for that sector? You can't do that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u71	In the end, there must be consequences somewhere in the process. So I think it's possible. It is rightly stated here that we are talking about a sector that is under heavy pressure, particularly financially. I have already said something about chain relations. I do not think that that can be a reason to say: you should sit on your hands and we as a government should not intervene if we believe that there is a wrongdoing that is not acceptable to us. I understand that Mr Geurts says that you cannot rely on an acceptable piglets mortality rate of 2%, but you can say that 40% is unacceptable and that that percentage should be reduced. In a way, we have done the same in the case of antibiotics. We have encouraged them to take considerable steps. We're not happy, but it'll happen. So I certainly see possibilities and we may differ on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u72	I was triggered by the remark about the market: the market is not a good cause. I think that's a good description. I think that's right, too. However, the market can also lead to results that are desired, that are just and that are sustainable. Take the dairy. Because of the degree of organisation there is a quality system, which in any case means that there is a very nice, active sector in areas such as food safety and animal welfare. What I see in front of me is that, ultimately, by improving the level of organisation, you will have the same position in pig farming. I would therefore like to nuance your point: provided that well-organised pigs are kept and there is still a lot to be done in pig farming, you can certainly make a market work so that there is a fair and lasting outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u73	I think that Mr De Groot is right that a number of situations could improve, especially their own financial position, if tomorrow the pig sector were very well organized and would have a dominant position in the chain equal to that of other players in that chain. However, I very much doubt that this would automatically lead to the achievement of the sustainability targets and animal welfare targets as we would like to see. In fact, I believe that every company at its core will strive to maximize profits. You can't blame a company for that, because that's how companies work, but that's why you need a government to set the limits within which that can happen. If you find that these boundaries in a society do not meet and are too broad, then you have to narrow them down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u74	You don't have to do that with standards. I'm sure I'll see the government as a market master too. So as a market master you can see how to promote that market offering better results. However, I think that this debate will be held more often on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u75	Finally, Mr President. In fact, Mr De Groot says "I would like to ask the Minister to ensure that the market does what I want," but I do not think it is within the power of the Minister to ensure that market players adapt, unless the resources available to them are used.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u76	Thank you. Finally, Mr Weverling has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Last Sunday was the first episode of a new season Boer seeks Woman, a program dedicated to the search for love of farmers, but also a program that gives a wonderful insight into the kitchen of our farmers and their farms. I see farmers who care for their animals with great passion and love, farmers who stand up for day and dew to take care of their animals and work late in the evening, farmers who have to skip a party or even a holiday. They don't really care at all: they love spending so much time with their animals. Mr. Chairman. That is a very different picture from the images that Pigs in Emergency undercover filmed on a pig farm. Let me be clear: these are not beautiful images. Farmers have a duty to take good care of their animals. It is good that there are rules and that they are enforced. The NVWA regularly carries out checks on pig farms and third parties can also report to the NVWA, on which it can carry out inspections. Infringements must be dealt with very hard: there is no misunderstanding about that. In the cabinet response I read that the NVWA has carried out an inspection of the three companies on which a notification has been received. Can the Minister indicate the results of these inspections? Have the companies in question been in breach, and if so, what was the nature of these infringements and have they been involved in administrative or criminal proceedings? At the same time, I would like to stress that it is regrettable that an image is being sketched that these undercover images would be representative of pig farming in the Netherlands, because that is not the case. In addition, it is unacceptable that farmers sometimes end up in annoying situations when organisations enter the yard or the stable unsolicited. Is the Minister aware of these signals and does the Minister agree with us that we should not accept threats? What is the Minister going to do to increase the willingness to report to farmers? The report "Sickness of intensive farming" of Pigs in Need states that pigs in Dutch pig farms are massively ill. But an investigation of this report, carried out by the Animal Health Service, shows that this conclusion is unjustified. Figures and data of diseases in pigs lack the relationship with the actual situation in Dutch pig farms. What is the Minister's response to the report of the Animal Health Service and can she confirm the conclusions of this report? Mr. Chairman. It would be fantastic if no pig would get sick anymore, and it is especially the farmer who has the greatest interest in this. Unfortunately, however, this is what is happening, and this also applies to us people, a wish that can never and will never become a reality. However, as far as the VVD Group is concerned, efforts should always be made to continue to improve animal health, and hence animal welfare, where this is possible. The sector parties have already developed the Research Agenda on pig farming under the direction of the Producers Organisation for Pigs Farming, the POV, in which animal health and animal welfare play an important role. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is a good thing that the POV wants to pursue this path and speed it up where possible. My group would therefore like to know how the Minister sees her role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u78	Were you done with your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u79	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u80	Then I'll go to Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u81	Having listened to this argument, I have the feeling that I am witnessing an attempt to put an elephant free of wrinkle behind the wallpaper. You would almost assume that there are no problems in the sector. Does Mr Weverling recognise that checks have shown that almost 30% of the cases involved irregularities and 10% of the pig farms checked were infringements?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u82	I recognize the figures from the investigation, of course, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u83	Finally, Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u84	Does Mr Weverling share the view, especially as a VVD member, that innovation has a high priority, that you should actually move towards better quality standards that ensure the quality of companies in the sector through self-regulation, quality standards and audits?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u85	I recognize that innovation is always good. I don't think we should be in the line of reflex. I am, however, enthusiastic about the contribution of the POV to this debate. It actually says: let's start an in-depth investigation with the LNV Ministry to raise animal health and welfare in pig farming to a higher level. I think that's just a very good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u86	I would like to ask my colleague from the VVD, a bit of the old law-and-order party, the following. I do not want to talk about how many farmers do good or bad. I've always kept my distance from that. You have people who only attack farmers and you have people who only justify farmers. But if some bastards are found, there are also bastards among the pig farmers; they are everywhere, Mr Weverling agrees with me that such a farmer should be sentenced to prison and a life-long ban on keeping animals, and that the animal police should also be used for that? You're a police party, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u87	Of course, I believe that abuses should be dealt with, but of course I am not going to sit on the judge's seat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u88	This is why it's important. The CDA is even willing to come to us when it comes to a life-long restraining order for recidivists. How does Mr. Weverling stand in there as a member of a law-and-order party? To recidivists, to people who go wrong over and over and by whom pigs are repeatedly abused, must be said at some point: boys, now it has been good, you get a professional ban, end of practice, you go do something else, go potatoes legs or do I know what you're going to do, it's end of practice with animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u89	That too is important: potatoes' legs. Look, a life-long restraining order is something that we can, of course, talk about further at a later stage, because abuses do not belong here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u90	Mr Grashoff, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u91	Mr De Groot began his speech by saying that there are not only abuses but that there is a clear sign of a systematic problem and that you really need to move towards a system change. That is what I have advocated, with quite a few more figures. Some others have also expressed themselves in this respect. I hear Mr Weverling talking sec about these abuses. Does Mr Weverling agree with me and others that there is a structural problem behind these abuses, which calls for a system change?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u92	I do not agree with Mr Grashoff on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u93	Yes, that was Mr Grashoff's last question. But maybe it's good if you also motivate why you disagree. Otherwise, you're gonna stay right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u94	Well, of course we're in favour of market forces. We think the farm is a beautiful business. It is said that there are many subsidies, but that is not in terms of income support in pig farming. So we want to proactively support the sector. What the POV states in their epistel in response to this debate is to start in-depth research with LNV. We very much welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u95	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Five minutes? Then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u96	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the members of the Chamber for their input on an issue that is not new, but it is always good to talk about it: animal welfare of animals in general and now specifically on pig farms. The reason for this debate is of course the broadcast of Hart van Nederland, in which images of sick and dead pigs were shown. In my written response, I have already indicated that I too am shocked by these images. It is not good that there are abuses of animal welfare. Those images are also part of the report Ziek van de intensiging stockfarming, which was released by the foundation Varken in Eerst. It describes a number of diseases which occur in pig farming. The fact that there are these diseases is not new. We already know that. And more generally: diseases are part of it, no matter what kind of farming you have. There are diseases that happen. Only, of course, it is also about how you deal with it and how you prevent it as much as possible. But the idea that we can eliminate it altogether, I would like to put it in perspective here. That's not true, like people don't. Only, how do you deal with it and how do you prevent it as much as possible? The diseases can, of course, lead to welfare problems. However, the report also quickly establishes a link between animal welfare and the existence of these diseases. It is not the case that all deviations can lead to problems of well-being at the same time. That's not one-on-one. And certainly not whether the way is kept also leads to that disease or to that condition. Those are too quick conclusions, which are drawn in that report. But the overall picture from the report is well known. There's no denying that here or anything like that. It is particularly good that everyone, including in the Chamber, is looking for ways to move forward with this. I think that's the way we have to deal with this. I also welcome the fact that there has been a fundamental debate on who has a role in this whole. What do you do privately, what do your audience do, and what role does the pig sector itself play? In any case, let me be quite clear: the pig farmer himself is the first to be responsible for the health and animal welfare on his holding. That is also the starting point for all the policies we are implementing together. The holder is therefore responsible for caring for sick animals. That is why I think it is very important for pig farmers themselves to strive for good animal health and good animal welfare. That's what happens, I'm just saying. A number of your Members have already referred to the fact that antibiotic use has taken significant steps. I would like to congratulate the sector on how that happened. We always write very easily that antibiotic use needs to be reduced, but there is a whole world behind it, and you are working very hard with a lot of parties to get it done. It really takes steps. So we must not leave that unnamed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u98	A little nuance: I come from veterinary medicine myself. The first thing I did when I became a Member of Parliament was to tell the veterinary pharmacy to stop giving antibiotics preventively and to stop giving antibiotics curatively without thorough carcinogenicity testing. That was simply a request from the Chamber, and concerns an approved Graus motion. So the sector didn't come up with that, but that's what I came up with. That's gotta be obvious. That was one of the first requests I made as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u99	I see that, and that is also a good thing that many people have been working hard on this and have been working hard on it. That has indeed been done from your Chamber, but it has also been done from the veterinarians and the pig farmers themselves, for example. They should be in on it. We can name many objectives with each other, but we will never achieve them if the sector does not participate. So I think the strength has been that a lot of parties have put their backs on it. Some Members asked if I am also in agreement with the sector on the steps to be taken. Yeah, I can say I'm pretty intense in consultation. There was another discussion yesterday on animal welfare and animal health in pig farming. A number of Members of Parliament have also mentioned the Research Agenda on pig farming and we are now going to do research again. We are also really setting concrete objectives for which steps need to be taken to improve matters. In this context, Mrs Ouwehand has asked about the bigvitality and the piglets' mortality: what about that? Didn't Mrs Verburg have such beautiful goals for that? Mrs Ouwehand asks me whether I still support these objectives and what is happening now. It is true that I am forgetting that, in my view, those objectives have not been properly achieved and that, therefore, the steps that we would have liked to see taken have not been taken. That is why a re-examination has taken place and the pressure is now increasing considerably to ensure that piglets' mortality is reduced. For the summer I can send more recent figures on the current state of affairs. As a ministry, we are in a steering committee on this issue, in which we also include some funding. It is my ambition to really take further steps in this regard. When I send the figures to the Chamber, I will also make clear what steps I expect the sector to take, because if we agree on objectives, I do not think it is acceptable that we should not achieve them. So I will tell your Chamber with and on the basis of the most recent results what my look-through will be for the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u100	Thank you for that. I would like to ask the Minister whether she supports and applies the principles of this approach, which Minister Verburg and Secretary of State Van Dam have endorsed, for example, that motherless breeding is not sustainable and that every pig should be able to drink from his own mother. Are these the principles that the Minister holds in the steps she is going to take?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u101	These principles also apply to the steering committee that we have formed with each other. So they are still there, but I will inform you more about this. For example, steps have also been taken with regard to the coupage of tails and castration. All these steps may not be fast enough for a number of Members of Parliament, but I can see that steps are always being taken. We must also appreciate that, and we must continue to encourage it to continue. Work will also continue, for example, on a concrete improvement of the stable climate. We have involved the top sectors and a proposal has also been put forward for a healthy environment for animals, humans and the environment. This will also be included in the Research Agenda on Pigs Farming. In short, there are many conversations taking place. It's on the agenda and we're working on animal welfare and animal health. Steps are being taken. Sometimes we really have to give that a big push. I'm not denying that, but I do think we're talking very well about how we can get into this. A fairly fundamental question is who has what role to play in this. Mr De Groot has put forward a proposal for the design of this division of roles, for example with regard to quality assurance and enforcement. There is indeed a private quality system, Holland Pig. It also lays down a number of conditions for quality improvements to take place there. That's a private initiative. It is not that we have imposed it; it is a private initiative. Mr De Groot asks: can you make that cover? However, it is complicated to make a private initiative or to allow 100% to be applied as a government. We do have some kind of two-stage missile in it. This quality system can also be taken into account in the overall approach of the sector itself. This makes it a quality mark that allows you to indicate that you meet the conditions. That is also the line I want to follow: to make it more binding through the sector, at least if we want to comply with these quality systems. If you're going to declare a private system mandatory as a government, you're going to get some kind of mixing of roles that I don't feel very good about. I think we'll find ourselves in a very strange situation. Well, we'll look at the NVWA. Mr De Groot knows that too, because he always asks me in many debates: how can you ensure that NVWA also uses these private quality systems? There's an application now. We must go through a process for this, because of course the NVWA must be able to determine whether such a private quality system also meets the requirements of the NVWA itself. There is now a request to raise such a quality system to such status. On this basis, the NVWA can also see if it can take it with it in enforcement. That's the trajectory. So I think that this way we can keep the quality system that is private, but that we can make use of it in our public enforcement and supervision. Some of your members have also indicated something about the Better Life label.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u102	The Minister is right to say that, as a government, it is difficult to impose such a quality system. But of course there are enough branches that require their members to apply a certain quality system, such as the temporary agency industry, where the ABU has a quality system, and cleaning, with the ISO certifications. I used to work at a company where food was packed. You wouldn't stand a chance if you didn't have your company periodically audited and if you didn't meet certain quality standards. Is the Minister prepared to consult both industry and the declining industry and retailers in order to use such a quality system as a condition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u103	I cannot impose on a retailer the condition that it applies a private quality system. Then I get a mix of rollers again. I have just indicated that it is indeed the sector itself that has to put much more pressure on it: if you want to comply with this quality system, then these are the conditions. That's exactly the route we're walking. There is already a certain coverage in the quality system of pig farms. At the same time, any improvement will have to be made through, for example, the POV. This can then be taken into account in quality assurance, thereby demonstrating compliance with the requirements of the label. But I cannot say to retailers: you can only purchase the products with the quality mark. That is really not allowed on the basis of the trade rules we have agreed with each other. I think retailers can say: hey, that's a valid system, so let's take the products off those pig farms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u104	My question was not so much to impose it on the retail or on the food industry. However, the Minister has an authoritative position. It can enter into consultation with the customers and their requests: as a society, we want to bring quality, animal welfare and emissions into the environment to a better level, so are you prepared to make that demand as an industry and as a retail? Then there is no mandatory imposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u105	Then the suggestion is that nothing happens now. I think the power is in getting more powerful for the citizens. They also see more themselves what is behind a particular product and what quality is. An example is the Better Life label, which I wanted to start on just a moment ago. I was with my German colleague this week and we spoke on this subject because they are in Germany thinking about how to deal with animal welfare in relation to labels. She asked me about the Better Life label and how we did it here. I said: perhaps the strength is that we have not done so much. That may sound strange but the strength is that it has been a combination from the pig farmers, the retail and the NGOs; they have sat together to find out what the requirements you have to meet to get such a star. This has led to a strong brand, where further development continues to take place in other sectors. So sometimes it is not at all the case that only the government ensures that these kinds of steps are taken. Sometimes it happens even in spite of the government. Sometimes that can be more powerful than when only the government is going to impose things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u106	Third question, Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u107	Is the Minister prepared to drop a few drops of lubricating oil in that cogwheel? I agree with her that you should not impose it as a government, but does the Minister share the view that from her authoritative position, without coercion, she can promote such a better quality of life as the standard standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u108	Then we have another discussion, namely when you're going to appreciate super-statutory demands. We have entire discussions in the Chamber about how to appreciate the extra efforts that pig farmers are making in the context of animal welfare, animal health and that kind of thing, and that a fair price should be paid for it. If farmers get demands but they don't get paid for them, you'll be out of farming very quickly. Then it'll be done pretty soon. The strength of the Better Life label is that consumers pay extra for themselves and from their own choice and motives, because they know that it stands for something, that it guarantees quality. When something becomes the standard, the price goes down and the farmer is ready. I think it is precisely the strength of this type of initiative that you can ensure that animal welfare comes out, that it is clear that the label is in place and that these farmers also get a fair price for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u109	I listened to the Minister's introduction. There is intensive consultation with the sector. Several things are being worked on. There's gonna be a research agenda. I do not want to trivialize all this, nor do I doubt the Minister's commitment, but the question is what is fundamentally new about it. More specifically, I would like to ask the Minister what will be fundamentally different in the sector in a year, two years or three years. You can discuss the way you get there, but it's about where we're going right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u110	I wasn't quite done with my story. I'm trying to incorporate some questions through the story. It is, by the way, a fair question from Mr Futselaar. It's not like we're just gonna keep looking into it, but it's not like nothing happened. And I just mentioned a few examples of this, such as antibiotics, castration of piglets and tails. You can find it all very normal now, but I can tell you that this is not normal in the rest of Europe. So we've really already taken steps that we should also appreciate. But that doesn't get us there yet. I admit that. As far as piglets are concerned, I am waiting for the latest figures, but if they are not good, we really need to go back to that. I will return to that in my response when those figures are available. We also come to the more fundamental discussion that Mr Grashoff has sparked. I thought that was a story where I almost thought: these are also the discussions we have had at the time when we decided, for example, to clean up the pig sector. It is true that there are factors that put farmers in a position to do so. They are very willing to take certain steps, but because they are trapped in the price system and therefore have too low income and cannot make new investments for animal welfare and that kind of thing, there is no room in that regard. Those are also the discussions we have had on the formation of the coalition agreement, with the question: what can you take as a step? That is why we have also allocated the 200 million for the warm clean-up of the pig sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u111	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u112	Mr President, I just got there. It is another step forward in my speech. On the one hand, we are going to ensure that parties that are no longer in a position to do so are said to be a little disrespectful, because I say it with great respect for farmers who are not in a position to do so properly. At the same time, we are also ensuring that we can encourage the innovations that are needed, for example in the areas of stable climate or animal health, animal welfare. This is how you cut the knife from both sides: you take another step in the innovative sector and at the same time you help the people who can't move and may sometimes do less animal welfare or animal health than they like to do, to stop. That is really a fundamental change, which we have just talked about, in relation to everything we have tried in recent years. So I really do follow Mr Grashoff's speech in part. This is where I think the coalition agreement has made a clear choice. I'm in the process of working out that warm cleanup. You'll get a lot for the summer. It will be busy for the summer, but you will also get this for the summer. I am also very hard at the moment in consultation with all kinds of parties, with the provinces, with the sector and also with the banks, because they also have a role to play here, of course, in how we are going to shape this all exactly in such a way that we can also have maximum effect with the resources we have made available for it. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of more specific questions asked by your members. Mr De Groot asked about the six weeks of extra space needed in the event of an animal disease crisis. Indeed, from the past, the policy has been to maintain that six-week period. Before then, animals were not allowed to be transported in the event of an animal disease crisis. This policy has now been adapted and EU legislation is now leading on this issue. This means that the pig farmer must guarantee animal welfare on the holding for at least 30 days and not more than six weeks. That is the current European legislation. Until transport can take place, the pig farmer himself is responsible for ensuring animal welfare on the holding. The sector has recently added to the new quality system Holland Pig, to which Mr De Groot himself referred, that a plan should be in place on pig farms describing emergency housing. So they themselves have added something to it on this point. Mr De Groot also asks how I deal with the system of pig rights and whether I will come back to that in my letter on the warm improvement of pig farming. Yeah, I'm gonna go back to that. I will also go into the whole of how we are shaping this warm reorganisation and what it means for the system of pig rights or the number of pig rights. So I'll come back to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u113	This was just as a result of the discussion with Mr Grashoff on how the withdrawal from the market of pig rights relates to the price of manure sales contracts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u114	Yeah, you're gonna see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u115	For a moment, Mr De Groot's question: you can say something about the manure market from two sides. One: I have a certain amount of money available, and I am working on the plan to clean up, by the way, then, I think, a very modest piece of pig farming. And what does this possibly do for the manure market? Another approach is the opposite: what should you do to remove the pressure really well from the manure market? Is the Minister gonna come up with that now? Did I understand her answer just as well, or isn't it? Or can I still get her to fly it from that side?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u116	I indicated earlier that, of course, with regard to manure, I am also in the process of revising the legislation. That is a much bigger discussion about how we deal with it. In the plan on the warm clean-up of the pig sector, I do not specifically address the manure component. We are going to look at how we are going to shape this warm clean-up and what that means, for example for pig rights. The fact that this can also have consequences for the manure market is a consequence of the choice you make in that action plan, say how this warm clean-up is being prepared. But it is not that I am now going to give a full analysis of the manure market, the pig sector and the pressure on it. That seems to me to be more of a discussion we should have in the context of the whole problem of manure. Mr De Groot and others (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr De Groot on his excellent report. Didn't I find that shocking? Figures were given for one out of three companies which were checked where abuses were found. I have to say that the NVWA will of course check with companies. "Risco-focused enforcement" they call it. So it's not like you can extrapolate to the whole sector based on the figures of the number of visits they've made in relation to the observed abuses. We are already zooming in on a number of companies that are also expected to play something there or that the risks are somewhat greater. So you can't just extrapolate that one in three to the whole sector, I'd like to nuance that. But the NVWA goes by, as it turns out, in companies to enforce the law as well. In addition, the NVWA also checks whether the pig farmers separate sick animals and whether they provide the right care. And if the NVWA determines deviations to this part, then there is also simply enforcement action. In 2018 the NVWA also started to check the stable climate. This was also based on a study by the University of Wageningen, in which the signal indicators emerged in order to gain an effective insight into the stable climate. The results of this will soon come back to light. The NVWA also carries out the mandatory ante- and post-mortem inspections. These include the approval of both live animals landed at the slaughterhouse and the approval of carcases after slaughter. This will also prevent food safety from being compromised. The NVWA reports on these controls and the measures imposed in reports. So the NVWA has all kinds of roles throughout that chain to monitor animal welfare, animal health and food safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u117	We are pleased that there is a protocol to maintain the quality of air in stables. I wonder what the sequel is, because there is a standard of 20 ppm, which is all a bit technical. Is the Minister holding on to this and should stables that do not comply close? Or how are we going to make sure that standard is met?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u118	The NVWA must, of course, work with the standards that exist, so they will also check for them. I just need to see what the results are, including the inspections they carry out themselves. I don't have a visual on that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u119	I am asking because, as in the case of manure fraud, we can all say 'we have to comply with the rules', but it seems that the whole system is so organized that you can hardly escape fraud and that air quality is structurally above that. So I think you should have a plan. If we've agreed, and fortunately, that 20 is really the top standard, it shouldn't be higher than that. Then, of course, fines do not help, but then we have to look at a system that we know is going to make, with a few exceptions perhaps. Does the Minister have any plans for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u120	Mrs. Ouwehand already says "it looks like." I just want to see what the facts are first. I always think it's a good idea to assume that first. I think I have just said, more broadly, in the whole debate on the warm clean-up of the pig sector, that we are right where the innovations are not working, and there are many reasons for saying: we can watch with you how, if you like, you can stop. But I also indicated that we are trying to make it possible at the same time to create an innovation and investment that farmers need to meet certain requirements. I would like to wait for the results of the NVWA's checks. Mr De Groot asked about a number of checks on companies and what I think of them. I just indicated that extrapolating is going down a bit. Mrs Ouwehand asked about the piglets' mortality, and why I was recently shocked. I was shocked when I saw the footage of those companies. I would like to stress, however, that it is not representative of all kinds of companies. The line that Mrs Ouwehand draws from my shock towards the whole pig sector is moving too fast. That is not what I am saying either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u121	One final question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u122	I am pleased that the Minister finds the images unacceptable or that she is at least shocked by them, but we know that, and this has been confirmed by the Animal Health Service, these situations arise in pig stables because the air quality and the pens in the stables are such that animals eat each other, become sick and you name it all. We know that a long time ago, don't we? I would like the Minister to use that as a starting point for action, and not to say that it is just one company. No, structuralally, pigs become seriously ill in pigs, which are very large percentages, large numbers of animals. She'll have to deal with that, won't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u123	In my introduction I tried to point out that I do not deny that the figures are as they are. I'm not gonna argue with that one either. There are just a lot of reasons why that situation is so. You take a very short turn when you say it's the way of keeping. Very often there are several factors involved, which really do not only have to do with the way animals are kept. Animals living in the wild are also getting sick, Mrs. Ouwehand. It's not like they're all gonna be prevented the moment you start keeping them in a different way. I have just listed a whole list of things we are working on to ensure that steps are taken there. I have also indicated that we can be more ambitious. It is precisely on the issue of piglets' mortality that we have to agree that we need to make meters there. I am not saying that we are here, on the contrary, as is evident from the figures, but to make the link one-on-one that it is all the fault of the way we keep animals is a reasoning that is too short. Mr Graus has asked about the ban on employment. He rightly asks a few times, because it is a journey that runs. I have indicated a few times that this is with the Minister of Justice. He will come up with a proposal and I understand that he is still working hard on it. I will tell him once again that you think that is important and that we should come up with that. Mr Graus had one more question, but now I have to organize my documents on carcass transport. There would have been a commitment on the transport of cattle, and that is true. I have indeed done so, and the examination of the carcass transport is ongoing. A policy letter on animal welfare will be sent to the Chamber, which will be part of it. I'll send it to the Chamber pretty soon. Mr Graus also asks what is the state of play on the mobile killing of animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u124	You may explain, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u125	Most of the abuses occur during loading and unloading. During transport it is also better that these animals are spared. The best thing you can do is stop eating meat, like me, but I can't impose that on anyone, so that's why I'm asking, as a second best.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u126	I understand that within the European framework, the possibility has been created for pilots to be carried out with stunning in the first phase of the slaughter of animals in a mobile slaughter unit. The possibility of on-site slaughter of animals which are not or are difficult to transport to the slaughterhouse but are suitable for consumption offers the opportunity to prevent such transport. This can save the animal suffering during transport, but investment in mobile units must be made by entrepreneurs. And the equipment and execution of that stunning must therefore be carried out after approval by the NVWA, so the NVWA also has a role to play in this. Applications for pilots have been submitted. This is also the subject of consultation with the NVWA. Strictly regulated pilots can also come, but we really need to look at how we do this. At least there are applications for such a pilot. That's happening right now, and the NVWA is involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u127	Now I have actually had more or less three promises in a row, because that restraining order is with the Minister of Justice, but when is all this going to happen? A member of parliament always wants to know what the time frame is. I would therefore ask you to do so without putting the Minister under severe pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u128	I can say that the bill has to come before the summer, but if it doesn't, you or he has a problem because I have promised it. I don't think that's a nice thing to do. I really need to ask the Minister of Justice. I have promised that I will bring it to his attention once again and that it is indeed the wish of the Chamber to have it here quickly. The applications for pilots are now running. To be honest, I don't know exactly how long that's gonna take. I understand that NVWA wants to take a good look at this before giving its approval, because it must all be well protected, precisely in the context of animal welfare. I will perhaps have to look at the lead time of the process in the second term. I don't know right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u129	As long as it is there for budgetary treatment, it will also be discussed. It would be nice if it could be done. Of course, I will have my colleague contact the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u130	Fine. We have talked about how we deal with quality systems, including during an interrupting debate, and about the hot clean-up that Mr Moorlag has asked questions about. I think I have just indicated what the flow of that is and how we are doing at the moment. Mr Grashoff has indicated that a warm clean-up requires public intervention. We are working hard on this, at all levels, by the way. I have sat around the table with provinces and municipalities where the pressure is also quite high. So all government battles are involved in this. Furthermore, during an interrupting debate, I indicated the relationship with the manure market. Mr Grashoff asked whether two-star meat could become the norm according to the Better Life label. I have just indicated the value of the system as it is today, namely that the consumer pays the price of animal welfare and animal health. We forget that sometimes, but if you want that to happen, it costs something. I am very pleased that this is reflected in this way. At the same time, I think it is very powerful that the NGOs are at the table with the sector and the retail sector themselves and are considering what steps need to be taken. I would like to maintain the system that we have precisely this way, because I find it really valuable. The fact that they even ask how we do it abroad seems to me to prove the power of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u131	I did not mean to ask that the legislator introduce two-star meat as a legal requirement, then the Minister has interpreted my words somewhat too far, but that that becomes the norm in society. So that's a little more transferable. The Minister can play a role in this, for example by involving such an ambition in these structural changes in pig farming. Let me give you an example: if there were a particular subsidy mechanism at fully sustainable stables, it could be linked to the fact that we want the farmer to produce at least two stars in order to be eligible. It's an example, not an exhaustive point. Is the Minister prepared to consider whether to help the private system, which in my opinion should remain absolutely private, or to give a strong support?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u132	I'd like to be reluctant about that. I think that the success of the model we have now is that the government is not going to link all kinds of goals to it. At that point, it will be another kind of government instrument, which will make certain parties say: if that is the condition to participate, then I will think about it again. There is a very clear definition of what the number of stars means for the quality. I see that more and more people see the value of the label. In this way, you could almost make sure that certain investments are made by farmers, because they want to meet that level, because then they get a good price. The moment the government says that this should become the star, it is going to set it as a kind of standard, which, for example, could make the impact of the price a problem. When you put down a standard as a bottom, the price drops back to that bottom and all the extras become the new star that comes on top of it. On the one hand, as a government, we are at the table with the sector and we are talking to farmers about how they can improve aspects. On the other hand, there is the market that requires more quality meat and wants to pay for it. I think this is a powerful combination.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u133	Finally, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u134	I would ask the Minister to consult very closely with the organizations, such as the Animal Protection Agency, the inventor of the star system. In my opinion, there is a kind of blockage right now in the pork corner. There is pork with one star. That's fair enough. It is already starting to become the norm in the Dutch supermarkets, in the better supermarkets, voluntarily. And we have three stars. But the step in between, which, I believe, could make an extraordinary contribution to the far-reaching reduction of the real animal welfare problems that we have identified in this debate, is a bad one. If the Minister could, in consultation with the Animal Protection Committee, report again to the Chamber through which that is coming, I am pleased about this for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u135	It is quite clearly defined which conditions you must meet in order to be able to produce two-star meat. In that sense it is also a choice of the entrepreneur himself whether he wants to meet the conditions to get two stars. It's not the government's goal to get at least two stars. We have simply incorporated into the law the limits on animal welfare and stables. Anything that comes up on top of that, you're gonna get paid extra. In the end, therefore, it is an entrepreneurial weighing up whether one sees a model in it, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u136	And the question about reporting?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u137	Yeah, that's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u138	Then it's obvious. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u139	I think the Minister is a little too modest and fatalistic. Forty years ago, Avebe, agro-industry in Eastern Groningen, discharged untreated wastewater. There was a lot of foam on the canals. At that time, it was also claimed that the prices set did not allow for compliance with the standards of waste water treatment. That would be a financial loss. That standard is set at some point and Avebe is a thriving company. My question to the Minister is whether she wants to use her authority, not by means of rules, to see, in consultation with retailers and industry, whether the star system can be brought up to standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u140	We lay down our standards in the law. That's our job. We, as legislators, have the means to lay down rules. In the coalition agreement we also made a number of agreements on this point. We have said that the rules need to be tightened up in certain areas. That's what we're gonna do. That will then be the new standard; underneath it will no longer be allowed. That's not even a matter of volunteering, it just shouldn't be anymore. In everything that happens on top of that, there is a certain degree of voluntaryness. It is the choice of an entrepreneur whether or not he does. If we want the retail sector to adopt something as a new standard and to implement it in a truly binding way, we must lay it down in laws and regulations. I do not hear Mr Moorlag asking for it. The moment we say that this might be a good idea, the retailers themselves have come up with that, because they are just looking at what the market is and where they can sell their products. That is the relationship between the role of the government and the business community. As a government, you can make legislation. You can provide subsidies to encourage things, or you can tax-encourage or punish them. Those are the keys we have in our hands. Besides, you just have the choices that entrepreneurs make themselves. I think it is very important for the retail sector to say that, at the moment when these super-statutory requirements are in place, they also need to be paid extra for this. And I think it's fair to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u141	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u142	Mr President, I come to Mr Geurts' questions. Among other things, he asks about entering companies without permission. He says that in the past there was a module or brochure informing about how you could handle it and other information in this area. We took a look at whether there was any information on these matters. I've had questions about that before. The other day I was sitting at the table with a farmer and he said: can you just walk into a stable? No, you can't just do that. Anyone can report this, just as someone can report it if someone breaks into his house. At that time we looked at what information is available on this point. Turns out those brochures still exist. These brochures are from the AIVD and are on the website of the AIVD. I want to see if that information can be raised and if a link can be made on our own website to the brochures made available by the AIVD at this point. The responsibility for its content lies, of course, with the AIVD and the Ministry of the Interior. We will try to bring that information out more easily and more clearly. Mr Geurts also asked whether an app could not be developed so that farmers could inform each other. I'm in a neighborhood app group myself. I do not know what that is like with Mr Geurts, but we have set up this group with the neighbourhood itself, precisely so that we can communicate on these aspects. I do not yet see that we as a government should set up an app group, but I could call on the farmers to set up an app group in their own neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u143	The President laughs at me nicely; I do not know how to explain it, but I will be there in a moment. I want to go a few steps further with that app. It's kind of hard to report it in the rural area right now. You have to travel quite long distances. If there's no sign of forced entry, the front desk is a bit difficult. I am somewhat an expert in this area, because I accompany people who want to report it anyway, because that is possible. I want to facilitate that. It must be clear to people where there has been a report, for example in a certain zip code area, because I also understand that we are dealing with privacy. I'm asking the Minister to start an investigation into the possibilities that apps offer. For example, many apps for SMEs are already available at Economic Affairs. The infrastructure is already there, so I do not think it has to cost much. Is the Minister prepared to take a closer look at whether there are a few more strokes to be made there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u144	I understand that the poultry sector itself has already developed an app in which parties can join. So I see that it is already happening in the sector itself. As I've just indicated, I'm willing to give you more insight into how you report, what steps you can take and that kind of thing. It is right for Mr Geurts to point this out: is that information still there? But I see that setting up such an app group is already happening in the poultry sector. I think entrepreneurs are really capable of doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u145	Maybe I'm not clear enough. Apparently, I'm about to have to write an own-initiative paper for it. Those app groups exist everywhere, in various municipalities, but that's not what I'm talking about. What I want is for farmers to be able to report it easily, to report it to the police or to the competent authority, and for fellow farmers to understand that this has happened. I'm terribly worried. I have already mentioned the example of Germany: 350 cows are released. That didn't happen once, it happened a few times. That's coming back to the Netherlands. We need to prepare for that. With the digitisation and the possibilities we have, that should be possible. So I'm gonna make another appeal to the Minister. Is it prepared to cooperate with the sector, if any, there are also some privacy and judicial issues behind it and LNV has an interest in initiating an investigation into whether this can be made easier?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u146	There are some hooks and eyes to Mr Geurts' question, for example with regard to privacy: that if you have filed a complaint somewhere, the rest also know that you have filed a complaint. That really is the area of my colleague from the Ministry of Justice and Security. I find it very complicated to say something about that now. I don't think you can at least let the police spread the fact that there's been a report. I don't want that to happen. But again, I'm not an expert on that. That's my colleague. I could ask the Justice and Security Commissioner how the willingness to report could be increased. What are, also in other areas, the tips and tricks? I'd be happy to put that question to him. However, I agree with Mr Geurts that, at the time of violations of the law, we should not accept that. I will therefore contact my colleague from the Ministry of Justice and Security. I have arrived at Mr Futselaar's questions. I like that he compliments the POV for picking up the glove on parts. I agree. He also says: we're not just going to run a research agenda, are we? And: shouldn't we also take binding follow-up steps? The results of the research agenda should be broad-based in the sector. A number of aspects of this need to be speeded up. So does the sector itself. Moving forward and the results of the research agenda should also be taken into account in the own quality system. That is what makes it binding for those who work with that quality system. That's what I'm talking to them about. By the way, I also discussed with the sector that we are setting up a benchmark. I think that makes sense. For example, pig farmers can see between themselves what the colleague is doing, why this is successful and what factors are involved. In this way, we can ensure that the right steps are taken to move forward. Mr Futselaar also asks about the research of the University of Wageningen on loft enrichment materials. I understand that the results of the survey will be ready this summer. Then it will also be available for pig farmers. I just answered the question about enforcement at NVWA. He also asked when the action plan for the barn fires will come to the Chamber. Is that not until the end of the year? No, the action plan on fire-safen livestock houses 2018-2022 is drawn up by industry, insurers, animal protection, the Minister of the Interior and me. As we have already promised, the action plan is planned for or around the summer. The development of certain actions can only follow next year, but we are working hard on it. Mr Futselaar also asked about the numbers of animals, the recent reports on the number of animals. The control of animal rights is risk-based by the NVWA. The basis is in the various data at the RVO and the signals from the field, and these risk-oriented inspections have also led to the detection of a number of violations. In 2017, 186 inspections were completed on the holdings which were checked for animal rights and 68 holdings were found to have more animals than the animal rights, and 51 cases were also recorded. Again, these are not the figures and percentages that I can extrapolate, because there is already a risk-oriented choice for visiting those companies. Let's keep that sharp. Animal rights shall be enforced under criminal law. The NVWA will take care of it further before the D.A. and the Justice Department. That is how control and enforcement take place. There is increasing cooperation with regional parties and with water boards, so control and enforcement also take place in this way. Those were Mr Futselaar's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u147	Mr. Graus, one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u148	I have a question about that barn fire prevention plan. When my motion was adopted on behalf of that barn fire prevention plan, inventors came forward and also a veterinarian for escape routes so that animals can flee during the development of a fire. Could the Minister take that with him? That has not been done so far, not even by its predecessors. The problem is that most animals are already killed before they are burned if there is a fire. They're already dying because of the development of smoke. So we have to get ahead of it. They have to be able to run, because animals want to get away from smoke. Can the Minister take that with him? This is not being sufficiently taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u149	I do not know in detail exactly what the content of the discussions that are taking place between the various parties on this point is. I think we should just wait and see what the action plan looks like, and then discuss this with each other. Finally, Mr Weverling's questions. He is also talking about the threat to farmers, and he is also asking me if I am familiar with signals about this, and that we should not accept that. I have already made a number of comments about the willingness to report to Mr Geurts, and I will therefore ask the Minister of JenV to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u151	Almost, Mr. Chairman. Mr Weverling also asked about the results of the inspections carried out at the companies that were in the picture during the broadcast of Hart van Nederland, the images of Pigs in Emergency. The NVWA did indeed carry out inspections at the three companies and one company was the subject of an infringement which led to the preparation of a report of findings and which could lead to the imposition of an administrative fine. I think I've answered all the questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u152	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u153	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Minister for replying. The Minister is good at talking and indeed steps are being taken, but the results are not yet what they should be like. This should be made less voluntary: nothing to the detriment of the efforts of the Minister and the talks that are being held, but it is still a question of how the system works. These private quality systems can do it, and that means that there must be an integral dialogue with the sector, not a thematic one, but an integral one, and that goes beyond research. That's why, Mr. Chairman, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are currently several chain quality systems (IKBs) for pig farming;]] [[noting that the Noordenkader Holland Pig aims to raise the existing IKBs to a higher level, in order to improve the image of the Dutch pig in the world;]] [[Whereas for this purpose it is necessary to raise the level of animal health and animal welfare to a higher level;]] [[calls on the government to discuss with the sector the possibilities of achieving a more ambitious and effective framework of standards;]] [[Calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the outcome of those discussions for the 2019 budget review,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-973]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u154	Mr. Chairman. Jan Terlouw said in 2015 that the government has to impose much stricter conditions in order to make a bit of work on animal welfare in livestock farming. That message seems to have been lost a little bit at D66. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the usual pig farming is contrary to the legally recognised intrinsic value of the animal;]] [[calls on the Government to clean up pig farming on the basis of the intrinsic value of the animal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-974]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u155	And the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that bulk production for the export of pig farmers is subject to negative price spirals and that Dutch farmers can never win the competition at price;]] [[calls on the government to say goodbye to the bulk production export model and to move towards a reform of livestock farming towards regional production in which animal welfare can be safeguarded and farmers can earn a normal living,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-975]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u156	To point out the motions, the following. The Minister said that animals are also sick in nature. Yes, all that is true, but we are dealing with a system in which animals are forced to live in their own manure vapours 24 hours a day. If you leave your animals out, that would be a very nice clean-up of pig farming. Free run for all pigs. At least they'll have fresh air. All the diseases that are caused by that bad air will be gone. The same is true of the large quantities of pigs that are to throw sows. We can handle it if we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u157	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u158	Thank you, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to have the AME, inspector or inspector of the NVWA accompanied by an (animal) police officer during risk checks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-976]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u159	For the rest, I have one more question for the Minister. What is the Minister going to do now that, among other things, there are multiple frauds, but also other frauds and cases, there is even less commitment to re-checking and file-building in relation to attention companies? The Minister knows what I mean by attention companies. They're usually recidivists. This file building is also very important in connection with shutting down businesses and achieving a restraining ban. Both ministers are working on this, including the Minister for Justice and Security. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that. Thank you for the commitments on mobile slaughterhouses and killing stations. Also thank you for the commitment that the Minister for Justice and Security is working on the life-long restraining ban, the professional ban, for recidivists. My colleague Lilian Helder, who is on the Committee on Justice and Security, will contact the Minister for Justice and Security. Well, at least I'll be done for today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u160	Did you say everything you wanted to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u161	Yeah, most of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u162	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u163	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is still considerable progress and profit to be made in keeping animals for food production to improve animal welfare, reduce emissions harmful to human and animal health, improve product quality and comply with legal requirements;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the industry, to develop and implement a sector-wide quality control and quality assurance system including mandatory auditing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-977]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u164	Is Mr Moorlag hearing deaf and seeing blind? The Minister's answer was clear: there is an IKB system in pig farming, there are even two. What else does Mr Moorlag want to add? I'm really wondering if he's actually been digging into the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u165	Yes, I do. We have a quality system, but mandatory auditing is not part of it. What I want to see is that, as in other sectors and in other sectors, it is common practice for the quality code for the sector to be checked and enforced by means of auditing and thus by means of self-regulation. This is preferable to regulation and to government control. The government can then limit itself a little more to system control.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u166	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u167	With all due respect, there are two quality systems in pig farming. They are under the supervision of the Accreditation Board. This is based on a number of requirements. One is that once a year an independent auditor comes to check a company's system. So what does that motion add?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u168	I want to go to a better system. If we simply find that there are irregularities in 30% of companies, where 10% are infringements, then you simply have to find that the current system is not working properly. There just needs to be a final approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u169	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u170	Mr. Chairman. I'm getting my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Better Life Label contributes to the improvement of animal welfare;]] [[calls on the government to consult with the food industry and large-scale retailers in order to improve animal welfare by raising the Better Life label to a fixed standard and gradually raising it to a higher level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-978]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u171	Really sincere: does the PvdA Group really think that the Better Life label should become a legal obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u172	No, that's not in the motion either. If Mr Geurts had listened carefully to the text of the motion, he would have heard that my request is for the Minister to consult the food industry and the retail industry to see if that could be raised to a standard. I am not directly advocating a legal standard. I really think of law and regulation as a final piece. The Minister said that the government has two steering instruments: rules and financial incentives, such as taxation and subsidies. But to my taste there is a third: consultation, which is classic in our polder model. My appeal to the Minister is, in line with her colleague Wiebes, who also tries to reach a climate agreement with the parties without rules and without financial incentives, in consultation with the industry, the sector, the food industry, the retail sector, to achieve the ambitions that this society is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u173	Thank you. Mr. Geurts?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u174	Mr President, small supplement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u175	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u176	Could Mr Moorlag call me one supermarket in the Netherlands where Dutch meat is in this case pork which is not IKB-certified in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u177	I'm not talking about an IKB certification. I'm talking about the Better Life label.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u178	No, no, no, Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u179	Same goes for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u180	No, Mr. Geurts. Thank you, Mr Moorlag. I'm going to see Mr. Grashoff. Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u181	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u182	Then that's what we'll do. Things went so quiet, and things got out of hand, almost. Mr. Geurts, tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u183	It's not getting out of hand at all, Mr. Chairman. I thought you were so kindly smiling, and the Minister has really done a great job here. But here's what I'm talking about. If such motions are tabled here, you don't know how it works in the Netherlands and a Member of Parliament points you out I've done that a few times before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u184	That was a general remark. So you don't feel addressed, Mr. Moorlag. I give the floor to Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u185	Mr. Chairman. At least I don't feel addressed at all, but I don't think that was the intention either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u186	Well, it depends on which motions you're going to file.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u187	Then we will hear whether I am being addressed by Mr Geurts. Mr. Chairman. It was a good debate. I also hear the Minister's ambition in a positive way. I am concerned, however, because it is all very, very, very much the polder model and it has proved to be a bit difficult with this sector in recent years. I'm going to read two motions quickly. I think it's possible. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a significant proportion of pig farmers earn low incomes;]] [[Whereas animal welfare, the environment and economic interests in livestock farming should be more balanced;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with farmers, civil society organisations and banks, to develop a strategy for the cleansing of pig farms with little or no future prospects;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff, Mr Moorlag, Mr Graus, Mr Futselaar and Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-979]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u188	Mr President, it is always transparent for motions to be tabled here, which simply come almost literally out of the coalition agreement. I think it's a little out of line. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u189	Then you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u190	Can I just respond to that for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u191	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u192	I also heard the Minister's answer. I also see a certain agreement, although clearly there is something different here than in the coalition agreement. But we can talk about it during the drink where the difference is exactly. I'll wait for the Minister's answer. It is not my intention to table unnecessary motions, but I can imagine that this can be seen as a support for at least this aspect of the intentions which, according to Mr De Groot's interpretation, come from the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u193	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u194	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to the Broad Welfare Monitor, livestock density in the Netherlands is the highest of all EU countries;]] [[considering the problems on the manure market;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the relationship between the size of the pig population and the manure disposal costs, and to inform the Court of Justice of this for the 2019 budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-980]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u195	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u196	What do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u197	I just wanted to make the point that it is a big difference, and that is why I co-signed the motion for a resolution, which, for example, should involve banks and that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u198	Yeah, that's good. Thank you, Mr. Grashoff. Then I'm going to see Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u199	Mr. Chairman. I have heard from the Minister of LNV the promise that the brochures on animal rights extremists will be brought forward. I'm happy about that. It also comes into contact with the colleague of Justice and Security in order to facilitate the filing of a declaration. That is enough for me so far not to make any motions on this point. I'm just gonna use these few seconds. Mr Graus had just had an interruption on antibiotic use. He said he's been fighting that since he got into the Chamber. Mr Graus took office in November 2006. In the pig sector steps to reduce the use of veterinary medicinal products have already been taken in 2005. For example, work has been done to reduce the use of veterinary medicinal products in feed, the medicated feeds. I'm giving everyone his success. You can repeat it a hundred times and you can believe in it yourself, but that doesn't mean it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u200	I come from that world myself, and I know how antibiotics were sprinkled. Veterinarians used to ring the bell with me. When I entered the Chamber, in November 2006, there was no jota done from the Chamber or from the government to reduce the use of antibiotics. Go to the CIP and ask for the Acts; this is not in there. In addition, I have also asked for a wide spectrum to go from a narrow spectrum to a narrow spectrum after a thorough carcinogenicity study in curative treatment and to stop preventive treatment, the use of pre- and probiotics and phytotherapeutics. No one ever asked, Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u201	Thank you, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u202	It's all from me. Come with me to the CIP later and I'll let you read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u203	Mr. Geurts, don't you want to provoke me anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u204	Well, it has to be, because it's about the facts. Mr Graus talks about politics. What I am'sending back' is that the pig sector has been working on this for much longer than from the moment when someone in politics brought it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u205	Then everyone has contributed something to that, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u206	Whatever the minister referred to came from me. Nothing has been done with what has been done before. Nothing happened, nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u207	Thank you, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u208	When I came here, there was zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u209	Thank you. Finally, Mr Futselaar, on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying and specifically for reassurance on the Stalbranden Action Plan. Less reassuring is the remark that the implementation may take a little longer, but we will discuss it when we get it. With regard to the discussion on private or non-private initiatives and rules, I can summarize the Minister's contribution as follows: if the Chamber wants higher standards, it must set them itself. I can only fully agree with that. This debate is getting a little upset because we are not yet sure what the warm clean-up is going to be like and what is going to happen specifically to pig rights. Mr. De Groot said they're going out, but we didn't hear that officially. That is why the next motion should be tabled in case this does not happen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has set aside 200 million for the warm rehabilitation of pig farming in livestock-tight areas;]] [[noting that it is currently unclear whether this reorganisation will be accompanied by a (compulsory) reduction in the number of pig rights;]] [[calls on the Government, if no decision is taken to withdraw pig rights from the market, to develop the possibility of allowing pig farming to be marketed on the holding to be renovated subject to a substantial improvement in the animal's living conditions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-981]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u211	For the sake of clarity, removing pig rights from the market has my party's great preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u212	I think it is a little early to pre-order the option that pig rights should not be withdrawn from the market. The Party for Animals has an approved motion. The Prime Minister said: I think it is going that way. So what do you say we make sure that that's the plan that we're just gonna follow?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u213	That is absolutely my preference, but first of all I am always in favour of the House setting the lines and of the government following them instead of the other way around. Yeah, I'm traditional at that. The problem is, moreover, that the best solution can be half a solution: we are going to take some of it out of the market and some of it is not. I can't predict what's coming out of it. If it is there, I suspect it will be relatively easily adopted by a majority, because it is quite a sensitive issue. Then I'd rather at least have an option investigated. I understand Mrs Ouwehand's scepticism. I have made it very clear that I would prefer that they be withdrawn from the market. But if there's a limitation, I'd like to have some room for manoeuvre in that. Think of it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u214	It's "the government rules and the Chamber controls." Thank you. Then we have reached the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. Does the Minister need a short suspension? Can we do it right away? Well, that's very nice. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u215	Mr. Chairman. I think we've already switched a lot. First of all, I should like to comment on the motion by Mr De Groot on part No. 973. It calls for dialogue with the sector on the possibilities for a more ambitious framework of standards and for communication of the results of the talks. I'm talking to the sector. I have just indicated that we had discussions even yesterday, for example with the Vitale Pigs Coalition about, among other things, a stricter quality system. Discussions are also taking place on animal health and animal welfare. Only, as I would like to emphasise once again, this is a private system. The final responsibility lies with the sector. However, we have said that if the quality system is identified by the NVWA as a system to which it can link its enforcement, it is regulated. So we're already talking about standards, too. I'd be happy to inform the Chamber of what's coming out of those conversations. So I can take over the motion, because this is what we are already doing. But I would also like to leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. I don't have a problem running this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u216	So the motion is being taken over?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u217	I offered to take over this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u218	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u219	But then I'll see if anyone else has any objections. No?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u220	In the motion in part No. 974 by Mrs Ouwehand is requested to clean up pig farming with the intrinsic value of the animal as the starting point. She indicated that she means that pigs, for example, are no longer sick because of the vapours they are in. I'm not gonna do the whole discussion again. We are currently having a major debate in Europe on African swine fever. This is a disease that occurs especially in feral pigs and wild boars. So I would like to tell Mrs Ouwehand that letting go of certain animals is not a guarantee of success. There are also other risks involved. With Mrs Ouwehand's annotation, I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u221	A brief comment, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u222	I would really appreciate it if the Minister would stop doing that. We put 25 million pigs here every year in stables they can't get out of, in air that makes them sick. The cabinet has a great responsibility for that. That's completely unrelated to what can happen to animals in nature. That sick air, cutting off the tails and stillborn piglets: it is the minister's responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u223	I think I have now spent an hour and a half indicating that we are doing so. I'd like to correct the picture that those diseases wouldn't be there if you let animals walk free. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u224	Mrs Ouwehand, this debate has really been enough. You may make one final comment on this. I think it's clear where you stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u225	No one suggests that animals can't get sick in nature. So it would be a credit to the Minister if she did not make that suggestion to me or other Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u226	Mr President, I think we have had enough of this discussion. In the motion in part No. 975 by Mrs Ouwehand, the government is invited to say goodbye to bulk production and work on regional production. We are working in the chain on integral sustainability, including production, both domestic production and export production. We have nothing against export either. For this reason, I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 976 by Mr Graus is requested to have the NVWA inspector accompanied by an animal police inspector. I think the NVWA inspectors are perfectly capable of doing their own job. We also need to look at efficiency and where we can best use our capacity. If necessary, it will be accompanied by the animal police, but I wouldn't want to impose it as a standard. That's why I don't recommend this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u227	Mr Graus, a brief comment as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u228	As of 10 years ago, all rulers in this area say that a boa is also capable of dealing with the bastards within the State Forest Administration. Now State forestry is even going to ask for armament. The same applies to NVWA. Doctors and inspectors can't be resisted. They don't have police clearance. They have no pepper spray and no armament. They're intimidated, but they're afraid to report it because they're flying out otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u229	And now the question about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u230	They're flying out different. They're afraid to report it. There's a culture of fear, and I'm sorry about that. So get a general investigator to do that. He's got armor and can grab someone right by his shoelace, spray a load of pepper spray in his face and take that person with him. It protects those good inspectors. They're not policemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u231	Thank you, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u232	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u233	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion on part No. Mr Moorlag and Mr Grashoff. I think that Mr Geurts has just indicated that there is already a quality system with an audit. So that's what the sector does. It is also the responsibility of the sector. Here we have again the different roles that run through each other. For this reason, I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u234	Does the ministrer consider that the scope of this motion is wider than the IKB system as introduced in the sector? For example, it is also a question of accounting for environmental gains. Think also of reducing ammonia emissions and the like. It is also about maintaining animal numbers. I don't find that in the IKB system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u235	This is again about the discussion of whether as a government you are going to introduce a quality control system that the sector already has in private. The government makes laws and rules. That is the framework that the government offers. The sector itself is going to set up a quality system, in which it has also organised the audit itself. The NVWA has its own role. She maintains this, also in connection with the quality system. So this is just rolling through each other, which I don't agree with. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion on part No. 978 on the food industry and the large retailers and on the Better Life label. This also applies: the government puts the standard in the laws and regulations and everything that comes on top of it is a private choice. I think it is a nice system, but I am not going to raise it as a standard, and I am not going to talk to the retail about it either, because then we should settle it in our laws and regulations. So that's why I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 979 on the warm cleaning of pig farms. I have just been here explaining what I am doing on this point, that the Chamber will soon be informed about it and that all the parties mentioned will be included. It's kind of weird to say I have to take over that motion now, when I've just explained what I'm doing. I am simply going to discourage the motion, because I find it really strange to have to implement it after all I have said in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u236	I'm gonna help the minister get rid of a problem. I understood the Minister's response correctly. It is good that the mini-ter confirms once again that there is apparently no light between what is in the motion and what it has promised. Then I am happy to accept that commitment and withdraw this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u237	Since the Grashoff motion c.s. (, No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u238	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion on part No. 980 on the study of the relationship between the size of the pig population and the costs of fattening. I'm kind of looking for what the purpose of this investigation is. We have indicated that the commitment is to improve the environment and take action on it. I told you what I'm doing with the warm cleanup. I have also indicated that I am in the process of reforming manure policy. So I wouldn't know what such an investigation would add to that. So I advise against this motion. The motion at stump no. Mr Futselaar (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Futselaar on his excellent report. Mrs Ouwehand said that there was already a vote by Mrs Thieme. I think it is Mrs Thieme's motion, because I remember that this was one of the first motions she tabled in the debate on the declaration of government. So there's a motion in motion. I would ask Mr Futselaar to hold this motion, too, until you can see what choices I have made in this motion. You'll see very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u239	Then I'll just withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u240	Since the Futselaar motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u241	Mr President, I think I have had all the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u242	Thank you. There was one more question, at least...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u243	Oh, yeah, about the pilot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u244	No, another one. I don't know whose question was it. Mr Graus says that one more question from him is unanswered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u245	I had asked another question about the NVWA animal welfare teams, which are very much targeted on this multiple fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u246	Yeah, I just indicated that the NVWA is in charge of risk-based enforcement. It really tackles risk aspects in order to establish enforcement. That way, you try to use the people you have as focused and as effectively as possible. That model already applies the NVWA, where you always have to make choices where you use the capacity and where you do not. I know that there are always very different views on this. However, through this risk-based enforcement, we are trying to focus very well where we use enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u247	That wasn't the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u248	Sorry, I asked that the animal welfare teams, which really need to go after recidivists, be very much used for the multiple fraud that makes their own work and file building for the real assholes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u249	The longer the question is, the more unclear it gets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u250	There is not one-on-one to draw a line that one is put to the other. However, there is flexibility in the work of the NVWA, so that inspectors are not always used only at one point, but where it is most needed. But that goes all the time and those choices are made continuously within the NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u251	I shall come back to the motion on part No. 980, which the Minister advises because she does not see what added value it offers. But could I still convince the Minister that such an investigation as such provides very valuable information, in addition to what she has already mentioned? For example, it provides insight into the degree of price elasticity in the manure market and thus provides an insight into the effectiveness of measures to improve pig farming, for example for the printing of manure disposal costs. I would like to urge the Minister once again to review her assessment of this motion and to make grateful use of the information she collects with it and so do we.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u252	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u253	But I'm already going to clean up. We have already indicated that. It's not like there's a trade-off behind it or I'm gonna do something or I'm not gonna do it. I do not see why the information I then have would still determine the choices I make in the clean-up, because we are already going to do that. That's why I'm still dissuading this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u254	Thank you. You are free to put the motion to the vote. That concludes this debate. I thank the Minister and the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-5.u255	We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I'm suspending the meeting until 2:20 p.m. We shall then vote first and then come the order of business.
