ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on the informal European summit on 23 February 2018. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister in box K and give the floor to Mr Asscher as the first speaker, on behalf of the PvdA Group. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. "No more cents to the Greeks." "No more money for Brussels." It all sounds delicious, especially in campaign time, but the question is who believes it. What the Netherlands needs is leadership. State interest over party interest, not slogans but direction. The European Union must change in the coming years. The Dutch must be able to be sure that there is a Europe that protects. It is necessary to stop climate change together in Europe, to shape effective border surveillance and a working migration policy and to work together against terror. It is also necessary to seize the opportunity offered by the new economy. Europe must also change because of the Brexit. The causes of the Brexit are also present here and in other countries. European workers must therefore be better protected against wage competition through labour migration. So companies have to pay their fair share of taxes. The Netherlands, as co-founder of the European Union, can play an important role here, with an experienced Prime Minister and with the good reputation of the Netherlands. In the interests of the ordinary, normal Dutchman, the Netherlands must advocate and lead the way in a Europe that protects. That is what should be at the forefront of the negotiations on the money for the coming years. No, we shouldn't be picking up the British's bill and leaving everything else as it is. In it, the Labour Party supports the government. Nor should we go against our own interests by going side-to-side pounding feet that should not be an extra penny. The government should weigh what spending is in the interest of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The great speech that the Prime Minister is going to make in Berlin is likely to be a disappointment. Given Minister Kaag's miserable letter, the Prime Minister should stay at home, but if he doesn't... poor Berliners, who will be read out the coalition agreement. I get it: a divided coalition, with elections coming up. But this is not in the Dutch interest. Dare to stand for the common good. That would be my call. Explain why Europe is important and why you cannot change it if you are only against everything. And yes, it has to change. Mr. Chairman. We see that Hoekstra promises less money, D66 more, and that our Prime Minister therefore also needs to move faster and faster between his Brussels and his Hague role. That's why I have the following questions for him. Is his promise that the Netherlands will no longer pay a commitment of effort or a firm promise? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that extra spending is justified if it is in the Dutch interest, for example, for a better distribution of refugees, the fight against terror or the fight against climate change? The situation on the Greek islands remains worrying. Money is not the problem here, but it is the capacity to take people in. What is the government going to do about this? We know that there must be an agreement in July on the redistribution of refugees. How is this agreement going to come about? What role does the Prime Minister play in this? Finally, I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what supporters of the Netherlands in Europe think they have for the line: say no, then you will get two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you. Mr Hoekstra is the Minister for Finance. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand that it is difficult to always be questioned about your vision of the future of Europe. You're in the middle of a negotiation. The others are after your money, but you, a real Dutchman after all, want to keep the hand on the cut. Not a penny extra to Brussels, you say. But what your colleagues in Brussels see as an opening offer sounds to the citizens of the Netherlands as a promise. They remember all too well your earlier "no more cents to Greece" and the excuses you made for this broken election promise. But now you're risking the same discontent again and threatening the same frustration that we're going to pay more later. I see how the Prime Minister is struggling with this and is entangled in a promise that is most likely to be empty. Can the Prime Minister go into that gap he must feel himself? I'd appreciate that. I would like to make a few suggestions from the constructive opposition. For starters, look at the content. Mr Asscher was actually talking about it. What do you want and what do you not want to do in the EU? And tell me why. See what it costs and split the costs fairly. You don't have to call it vision for me and not necessarily use big words. Just look at it pragmatically if necessary. How does the taxpayer get the most value for money? It is actually already very clear in the annotated agenda. The Multiannual Financial Framework should focus on common challenges that require adequate EU action and policies that generate the most added value in Europe. And then there is quite a long line: innovation and smart growth, sustainability, energy, climate, migration and security. Not a pin to get in. But now. How do we proceed? What are we going to do in all these areas? It would be good if all these ambitions were to be fulfilled in concrete terms. What does a safe European external border look like? How do we tackle climate change together? How do we make agriculture sustainable? And I can go on like this for a while. Only if we have an answer to these and many other questions will we know what this will cost us. So stop, like I say to the Prime Minister, saying that there can't be a penny in it. Not only because it puts you at risk of having to come back, but also because a future-proof EU requires more than just accounting. Is the Prime Minister prepared to take a substantive approach and tell the Chamber what he does and what he does not want to do in Europe? And indeed, that includes telling us what you no longer want to do in Europe. I have a long list of suggestions for the Prime Minister regarding possible cuts in agriculture or in the Structural Funds. In my final minute, however, I should like to say a few words about what the annotated agenda calls 'the institutional matter'. Then we've all splashed our ears immediately. Parliament, by a large majority, chooses a Spitzenkandidat; I never know why it should be in German, but let us make it 'list-taker' or something like that. In the Council, it seems that the Netherlands is opposed to this. Is the Prime Minister prepared to come to an agreement with Parliament? It is not that crazy that we are looking for a link between Parliament and its electorate on the one hand and the President of the Commission on the other? Moreover, we do not want Parliament to vote away one candidate for President after the other, just because it is not the one they have proposed themselves? I'd like a response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u6	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Meer Europese Unie.]] This is, in short, the most important and, at the same time, the only message that the European Commission has recently announced about the Member States and the Dutch population. It is about the discussion of the future of the European Union. The budget could increase by 10% to 20%, despite the fact that money is still being wasted, many Member States are failing to account for the money and a Member State is leaving. There is a need for ever-increasing cooperation on defence. The euro must be finished and we lose control of banks and the budget. In the name of the internal market, a municipality or a province, if it wants to do something about it, must first ask the European Commission for its permission. In doing so, she no longer deals with her local policy. Despite the fact that the European Union is still in the middle of a divorce with the United Kingdom, it is already saying that it is time to include six Balkan countries in 2025. These are examples of how the European Commission is pulling the strings and only sees Europe as a solution to all kinds of problems of a different nature. In the meantime, the decision-making process remains a black box for us as parliaments and that situation is really untenable. As far as the SP is concerned, this is the time to oppose all the Commission's stacked integration plans, because it seems as if it is trying to put as much as possible on the agenda to decide as quickly as possible, so that you could not actually say no any more. I hear people say that in the media too. But of course we can. Yes, we can. And so the Prime Minister has already stated in Germany that we have long been net contributors. But I would like to ask him, how much from now on as far as he is concerned, and in what areas? And which allies does the Netherlands have on its side exactly? I see the Financial Times is talking about the hallway or four, but are there any more? And how exactly are we involved in this process? I would like to say here to all those people who say 'it should be wider': European money does not exist. It is all taxpayers' money in the Member States. That also means that the Member States will decide on this. Then the European Commission can say'more, more, more', but that does not have to be the outcome. I have heard that the Netherlands has already sent its position to other Member States. I would like to receive that kind of documents as a Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The great risk that is now taking place is that there will be cow-trading in Brussels. You get one agency, we get another nice post. And if we get what we want on a smaller European budget, we can put a little bit of water in the wine when it comes to countries' accession. That cannot be the way the discussion is conducted, I would like to say to the Minister, in the Council. As far as the SP is concerned, we are conducting every discussion purely on the bone and we are not going to mix or exchange files with each other. Does the Prime Minister agree? And when it comes to the speech he's going to make in Berlin, I think it's a bizarre situation. I've already had a few debates with the Prime Minister in which I asked: what do you want? Then he says, "Yeah, yeah, yeah -- well, I don't know." And now he's going to Berlin for a speech. Who's that guy's hearing, anyway? Who's he giving that speech for anyway? And then finally. In Brussels, it is thought that a European solution is needed for all problems, including problems that a government should not interfere with. Take fake news. Apart from the fact that you shouldn't judge journalism as a government, the EU vs Disinfo task force that has been set up is a joke. It makes mistakes, it does not have a pure working method and yet this government repeatedly says that it wants the tasks of this task force to be extended. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister today that the Netherlands does not think so anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr. Chairman. With the elections to the European Parliament in sight, the turnaround of seats and top positions begins in Brussels. Because you have to imagine, suddenly you realize that your beautiful job and your luxurious life can be finite. And on top of the usual election fever, for the first time in history, a Member State leaves the European Union. One would think that with the departure of the United Kingdom, the 73 British seats would also disappear from the European Parliament. But Brussels has not achieved that logic. Because that would mean there are 73 jobs less to forgive. Of course, that lap machine has to keep running. And creative as they are, the European Parliament came up with a different proposal. 27 seats are redistributed, 46 are left open to parliamentarians and future new Member States. So magic with expensive seats. In the meantime, we are pre-sorting for enlargement of the European Union. That's the way it is in Brussels. A Member State from the Union simply means fewer seats for the European Parliament for the PVV. It should be that simple. That is how clear it is described in the adopted PVV motion. I call on the Prime Minister once again to proceed with this motion. Mr. Chairman. After three and a half years of quietly filling their pockets, the time has come for the European elite to pretend to be concerned about the European Union's democratic deficit and increasing engagement. Only 37% of the Dutch voted in the European Parliament elections in 2014. That pink bubble of a European democracy does not exist in the people's home. It exists only in the heads of a select elite group in Brussels. To those who are already surprised by the European Parliament's chair dance, I say that this is nothing compared to the fight for the top prize of the European election party: the role of President of the European Commission, the jackpot of all EU functions. In Brussels, in order to warm the electorate, they invented the so-called Spitzen candidates, the list leaders of the European groups in Parliament, the elite's parade horses. In 2014 it was the usual suspects: eurofiel Verhofstadt, islamknuffelaar Schulz and professional alcoholic Juncker. There was supposed to be a choice between more, more and more European Union. It really was a boost for confidence in Brussels. In 2014 it turned out that no one was waiting for this circus. The Spitzen candidates are a farce. Mr. Chairman. The common thread that connects the Brussels elite is money. There are two rules for this. One, there's never enough money. Two: that's up to the taxpayer. After all, between all the discussions on expensive EP seats and top positions as President of the European Commission for more than €20,000 per month, it is in full swing over the billions of budgets. There's a tough fight going on for your taxpayers' money. 1,060 billion euros had Brussels to spend in seven years. As always, of course, that is not enough. The negotiations have not even officially started, but the tone has already been set in Brussels. The budget has to go up, the Dutch rebate is going down and we are going to pay more. What about Rutte? He stands by and looks at it, and is instructed by Commissioner Timmermans, the man who in recent years was mainly working on himself and the collection of migrants, to explain that in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The Freedom Party wants to leave the European Union. We choose our sovereignty, freedom and identity. But as long as we're still in it, the Netherlands must be tough on the Brussels money wolves. I never thought I'd say it again, but take an example from Brussels. Communicate in dictatorships, because that is the only language they speak, and demand that the Dutch contribution be substantially reduced; received instead of paying. Keep our discount and put the knife in absurd salaries and fees. As far as my party is concerned, the Prime Minister does not have to come home with less. The Netherlands has a veto. Use that too and otherwise stay in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u9	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr. Chairman. At the latest at the beginning of May, the European Commission intends to present a concrete proposal for a new Multiannual Financial Framework. In sometimes rousing prose, in a note published last week on the new MFF, the Commission gives which direction it should take with Europe in financial terms. Ronkend was also the headline in the Volkskrant this morning about the MFF: "Financial battle like Europe has never seen'. By the way, in Germany and France, and therefore in Brussels, it is deafeningly quiet at the moment. According to Mr Juncker, this proposal will be based on intensive consultations with the Member States and the European Parliament. As far as the Member States are concerned, I do not suppose that this is the remarkably recent meeting of the European Affairs Committee with Commissioner Oettinger, to say the least. Unfortunately, I couldn't be there, but I've been watching this conversation with increasing amazement on Debate Miss. In a Commission note, different options are presented for each policy area, with billions flying around your ears. Even if you add up the least far-reaching options, you already have an amount far beyond the current budget of the European Union. But, according to Juncker and the rest of the Commission, we need to give 'we' some money for the Europe we want with each other. Abstracter can't do it. The latter is a quote from the note. Is that a text the Prime Minister would like to make his? And who are the 'we' that the European Commission is talking about? It is clear that France and Germany want something different from the Netherlands, Poland or Bulgaria. The Prime Minister was in Berlin last Monday. I ask him immediately what the differences are between the Dutch and German efforts for the new ftk. Are the reports correct that he has made it clear to the Germans that no higher contribution can be expected from the Netherlands? And is he going to repeat this forcefully next week in his speech in Berlin? I also understand that the Prime Minister will be joining us tonight at a dinner at the invitation of the Belgian Prime Minister, where thirteen large countries are present. Maybe he wants to tell us something about it, even though we're not negotiating here right now. We are pleased that the Prime Minister is at the table everywhere and always. Then find the partners at the table. Moreover, the latter would be in line with what we read in the annotated agenda and in which the 50PLUS Group broadly agrees: modernising the MFF through new tasks and new priorities cannot automatically lead to higher contributions. That's what 50PLUS chooses. Reduce is also a solution. If Britain's departure makes less money, we'll spend less. Just as we are not going to compensate for the loss of 73 seats in the European Parliament. When it comes to savings, the 50PLUS group is in favour of cutting agricultural subsidies heavily, less focused on income support and more on innovation, and also on cutting the cohesion funds. We really need to reserve it for regions in the Union that desperately need it. That is not the case now. In addition, the monitoring of the use of these funds is not sufficient. There are other options. They do not yield billions, but they can make a positive contribution. One example is the reduction of bureaucracy, the abolition of Strasbourg as a meeting place for the European Parliament and the very generous remuneration of its Members and the working conditions and pension arrangements of its officials in the EU institutions. Is the Prime Minister prepared to make a living for that? Finally, Mr President. We have the impression that unlike the previous MFF, when we all had to make substantial cuts and there was no room for a larger budget, Brussels is now thinking: it is going better in the European economy and in the Member States; this is the time to take a hold in the Member States' cash register. Brussels must realise that it is other people's money, that is taxpayers' money. We are clear on this: not more, but less from Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The debate on EMU has hardly been completed or the train continues. Since we could not participate in that debate, the Prime Minister still owes us an answer on whether the euro has brought 16 years after its introduction what the currency promised and whether further integration is necessary and desirable. Our answer to both is no. Indeed, the differences between North and South have increased, according to studies. And the democratic deficit has not been reduced, but rather increased. Mr. Chairman. The one-sided focus on economic growth and free trade is inconvenient. The endless dragging of animals in overcrowded cattle trucks is a poignant example of the consequences of the losing out of free trade. The decisions that were in the interests of animals, nature and the environment, and which most of the urophiles in this house were taken in the 1990s, when the EU had only 15 Member States. With 28 Member States, the EU has become such a big moloch that Brussels' ambitions for good, strict rules on animal welfare, nature and the environment have virtually disappeared. Think, for example, of reducing the duration of animal transport. That's been stopped. Think, for example, of the stricter rules for keeping breeding sows. That's been stopped. Think, for example, of the stricter rules for the number of chickens per square metre. That's been stopped. The larger the EU, the more European rules have become rules of the lowest common denominator. The greatest common denominator you should be able to say, the race to the bottom. Does the Prime Minister agree with this analysis? I'd like an answer to that. The worst is that Member States use Europe as an excuse not to have to do anything themselves. As it is called in political language, we do not put national headlines on European policy. This will paralyse policies at national level and reduce Member States' ambitions. In some cases, the EU even prohibits Member States from taking forward-looking measures. For example, the EU does not allow Member States and regions themselves to prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified crops or to differentiate VAT according to health. Agriculture has traditionally been the policy area where Brussels is the most involved and spends the most money on, some 40%. 73% of this, EUR 308 billion, goes to direct income support. Then 80% goes to 20% of those who are entitled to it. This common agricultural policy has caused endless casualties over the years. The billions of animals that suffer and die every year in the European livestock industry. Nature and the environment, which have been seriously affected by the large-scale use of poison, fertilizer and fertilization. And the family farm, let us not forget that it has been set on the path of ever-increasing scale. The common agricultural policy must therefore be thoroughly reformed. The free billions of subsidies that farmers are now receiving will come to an end. Until then, the budget must be used to convert farmers to ecological agriculture. In other words, is the Prime Minister going to stand up for the abolition of agricultural subsidies and work until then to switch to ecological agriculture? I'd like a reflection on that. Finally, I would like to make one final point. In 2013, a motion by the Animal Party was widely adopted calling on the government to work in Europe to ensure that no more agricultural subsidies are paid to bullfighting. The European Parliament has also voted in favour of abolition. But our information is that four years after the European Commission continues to do so under the claim rather special, here it comes that it is unable to distinguish the individual amounts involved. Now that European subsidies are back on the agenda, in our view this is the time to demand that these subsidies stop. Is the Prime Minister prepared to investigate this when he is in Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I am a little surprised, because I had a list on which Mr Verhoeven preceded me. But I understand he'd like to be the last to speak. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Mr. Chairman. The European Summit in Friday is primarily concerned with institutional matters. We have had a regular exchange of views with the Prime Minister on the future of Europe in recent times, but that was mostly fragmentary. We, as a group, have therefore decided to develop a comprehensive vision of the future of Europe. This morning, at the procedural meeting of European Affairs, it was decided that the own-initiative paper that we produced for this purpose will be discussed in life and well-being on 26 March, at the same time as the State of the Union. Perhaps you will allow me to do so personally in order to hand over this initiative paper to the Prime Minister in person. It's not entirely regulatory, but if the chairman is in a mild mood, and she does, I'd like to hand it over with a handshake. Maybe one of the colleagues can shoot a picture for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u15	What the hell, Mr. Bishop? This is a surprise. Then I'll suspend the meeting for a few moments before the photo. It all comes down to your speaking time, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u16	Mr. Chairman. I think it is very nice of you to have stopped speaking for a moment while I was handing it over. I appreciate that very much. But may this be an inspiration for next Friday, but also for the famous speech that the Prime Minister is going to make in Berlin. Mr. Chairman. A few points on the composition of the European Parliament. As far as we are concerned, these 73 seats will not be filled after the United Kingdom leaves, so the European Parliament can shrink. Can the Prime Minister indicate how many Member States share this view? As far as the Spitzen candidates are concerned, it's not necessary. Is the cabinet prepared to express this view at European level? Then there is the combination of the Presidency of the European Council and the Presidency of the European Commission. Once again, with the cabinet, this upsets the balance to the detriment of the Member States. The question is therefore again to what extent the criticism of the cabinet can count on support within the European Council. Then there is the revision of the Regulation on financing European political parties, a hot issue. The SGP has always been and still is critical of this. What is the impact of the changed distribution key on the different political parties? To what extent does there remain room for minorities, independent MEPs or different noises? What is the Netherlands going to do to ensure that space, I ask the Prime Minister. Then there's the Multiannual Financial Framework. There is, of course, a great deal of discussion about this at the moment. Colleagues have already referred to this. As far as we are concerned, we must at least reduce the amount of the United Kingdom's loss and, if possible, increase it. The question to the Prime Minister is: at what posts does the Prime Minister see opportunities for cuts? As far as the common agricultural policy is concerned, the cabinet seems to favour cuts in the budget for the common agricultural policy. But as far as we're concerned, that's a little fast. As the agricultural budget needs to be more focused on social objectives, cuts in the common agricultural policy are twice as hard. Does the Prime Minister see and agree with this risk? The EU should not make unilateral cuts in the agricultural budget, but at least seek coherence with a wider market and competition policy. How can we prevent the competitiveness of our agriculture from being harmed by, for example, European environmental and animal welfare standards, unequal co-financing by Member States or sanctions against countries such as Russia? Mr President, thank you, I should like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u17	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mr. Chairman. People want the European Union to solve the major cross-border problems, such as security, climate and migration, so that they know that the European Union is there for them. Who's gonna stop that? These are parties that would like to leave the European Union so that we can no longer solve these major cross-border problems in a European context. Or parties and people who see more EU as a solution to any problem in the European Union. Today, as has already been said, we are talking about two issues: institutional affairs and the budget. If you look at the budget, what are the facts, what is it like? This budget, the Multiannual Financial Framework of the European Union, currently consists largely of so-called agricultural and cohesion funds, and a large part of that agricultural policy goes to direct income support. The European Commission is proposing a new budget in May. This Friday's summit is about the starting points for this budget. The decision-making process is only foreseen in mid-2019, at the earliest. Mr. Chairman. When you draw up a budget, the first question is: what should the European Union do? As I said, the European Union must tackle the major cross-border problems and solve people's concerns. I call security, migration and climate. The EU must ensure innovation and prosperity through trade and by completing the internal market. That is what the budget must be about, and that must be the commitment of the Netherlands. Then you also have to look at where it can be reduced, less money to agriculture and less money to cohesion policy. You must also ensure that the budget is linked to reforms in a country, so that countries comply with the Stability and Growth Pact. This is very important for the euro. A smaller EU also means a smaller budget. Before proposing new expenditure, the European Commission must first take a close look at the effectiveness and efficiency of current expenditure. We regularly visit Mr Brenninkmeijer of the European Court of Auditors. He shows photos of empty ports and airports built with European money. That does not help to sell the story of the European budget, so something must be done about it. I also mention the spending reviews. The European Commission is in the process of evaluating policies and expenditures, but does not make those spending reviews public. Let them take an example from the Netherlands. For a cabinet formation, we have all kinds of studies carried out in order to draw on austerity proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u19	That is what the European Commission is going to do. Those are all sensible words. But then the question to the VVD group is whether it will accept it if the Prime Minister returns in mid-2019 with a higher Dutch contribution. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u20	That's a very interesting question, but it comes two and a half years early. I have just said that there is no proposal at all from the European Commission. This summit is about the starting points. We need to formulate it; I just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u21	It is not only an interesting question but also an important one. Big words are being spoken about it in the media. Those primers are secured, but we're in parliament now. We are now giving a mandate to the Prime Minister about what he's going to do there. It is precisely the VVD group that always wears big pants on this point. The choice is simple. You can say, "We'll see about that." That's an answer, too. But that basically means that for now you accept that the Netherlands will come back with a higher contribution. It's yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u22	It's always nice when someone tries to put down a yes-no question. I know Mr Asscher from an earlier spokesmanship as an extremely clever negotiator. He also knows that you should never tell him if you want to admit anything. We're talking about the stakes now. There is no proposal at all yet, so we will first formulate the commitment. I once again call on the European Commission to do its homework first. Why don't you take a look at the effectiveness and efficiency of current spending? Then we will see a proposal in May and then we will talk about it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u23	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u24	The conclusion is that we are now saying no in the run-up to the elections. But Mr Mulder built in enough space to explain that later with the necessary excuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u25	That is an extremely creative explanation of my words. I will leave that to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u26	You can say that it will not be decided for two and a half years, but there is no one, either in the cabinet or in the coalition, who has not already made an advance on that discussion. Maybe that's good, because you're going into negotiations with a certain amount of commitment. Let me put it this way: is it theoretically possible that the outcome of that exercise is that the new Multiannual Financial Framework ultimately contains a higher amount than the current one? That is important because otherwise we will have to make promises for which we may have to apologize again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u27	I told you before that if you start negotiating, you shouldn't anticipate a compromise. That's unwise. We're talking about the stakes now. The stakes are clear. I have also just outlined the commitment of the VVD. That's the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u28	I fear the point is correct that the VVD's commitment is not clear. Mr Mulder said that there are major cross-border challenges and we need to tackle them; they cost money, but they must be done efficiently. Yeah, we all do. The question is whether at the end of this negotiation it is possible that tackling the major challenges mentioned by Mr Mulder will cost more money together than is currently in the MFF. That's an important question. We're all entitled to know that. We know that some parties have said: that is out of the question. But does Mr Mulder also say that that is impossible, or does he say: well, that could be? Then that's good to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mr Mulder talks here about the commitment of the Dutch cabinet and the VVD. That's what he's talking about. He doesn't talk about outcomes, because you're not going to anticipate negotiations. I don't think that's convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u30	It will be a repetition of questions and also of answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u31	So what's the bet? That we get higher, lower, or finance what we have to finance and then see how much that costs? It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u32	I wanted to say that we have a very good use in this Parliament. That is: when you say that you want to spend extra money, you also say that you want to spend less on something, so that the budget is final. That seems to me to be a very good principle in Europe. If we are to spend extra money on something, we must also say that we are making mints on the budget. That seems to me to be a very good starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u33	I see Mr Van Raan wants to interrupt. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u34	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Good point. Mr Mulder spoke about the coherence of things that Europe needs to do when it comes to security, climate and migration. Now the coherence between these issues for the Prime Minister was still somewhat vague before. It's clear by now. But there is also a very strong connection with agriculture. The way in which intensive agriculture is carried out in Europe has disastrous consequences for the climate and for migration. Two questions. Does Mr Mulder see that too? And is he also prepared to commit himself to a reform of agriculture in Europe towards small-scale organic farming, and to pass that on to the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u35	I have already said that we are in favour of reform of agricultural policy. There is direct income support there. It goes partly to small farmers, but partly to large farms and also to rich farmers. The question is whether this money is usefully spent. My group does not think so. So Europe should do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u36	Thanks for the partial answer. Then you're going to bet on a review. But we also want this review to take into account the coherence with the effects on climate, migration and security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u37	Sure. If you can innovate agriculture in such a way that you can spend money on it so that it becomes healthier and better for the climate, then that is always a good proposal. So I'm curious to see if that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u38	I have a brief question for Mr Mulder. I hear you say at the beginning of your speech that the VVD says: a smaller European Union after the British leave also means a smaller budget, a smaller multiannual budget. That is a lower amount than the EUR 1,060 billion that has been earmarked for seven years. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u39	Yes, a motion has also been adopted by Mrs Maeijer. That said, a smaller EU means a smaller budget. But when Mr Oettinger came here, we wrote a letter on behalf of the whole Chamber. We also mentioned Mrs Maeijer's motion, and asked Mr Oettinger: can you do this? I regret, however, that Mrs Maeijer did not respond to that letter at the time. She didn't say if she agreed. The PVV yells very loud here and there, but if something has to happen to Mr Oettinger and we write a letter with basics, the PVV does not give at home. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u40	That was not an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u41	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u42	At the beginning of your speech, you said that the VVD believes that a smaller European Union means a smaller budget. So I am talking not only about the seats, but also about the amount that the United Kingdom brings in. This means a smaller multiannual budget, i.e. a lower amount than EUR 1,060 billion every seven years. Again, is that right? Is that the VVD's bet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u43	Yes. The UK's departure must be compensated by cuts elsewhere in the budget. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u44	Mr Mulder then said that others should do their homework or that the Commission should do its homework. But could you not make that accusation better for your own group in the European Parliament? Because your own group in the EP has voted twice in recent months against a call for a reduction in the budget for 2018 and then abstaining on an amendment that was the only amendment that was tabled........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Shouldn't you be doing your own homework if you really want a lower multiannual budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u45	With regard to the Brexit seats, I believe that the VVD Group in the European Parliament has said that we should not fill them all out. So it seems to me clear and clear what the VVD Group in the European Parliament has said: do not fill those seats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u46	I think that not only the delegation in the EP should do the homework, but also Mr Mulder, because there was an amendment by Mr Annemans. It was quite clear that the number of seats after the British left would be net, I think, on 678 seats. So that's minus 73. In the vote on that amendment, the VVD abstained. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u47	I will, of course, address Mr Van Baalen, our delegation leader, seriously, but what I know is that he has voted against the extra seats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u48	I don't know if Mr Mulder was ready yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u49	No, he wanted to say something about institutional matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u50	I'll wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u51	I'd be fine with that. Proceed, Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u52	That was my input on the budget. Then the Spitzenkandidat. How's it going now? The formal electoral procedure for the President of the European Commission is that the European Council nominates, taking into account the results of the elections to the European Parliament, after which the European Parliament rejects this nomination. In 2014, the European Parliament seized some sort of power. Now each political group appoints a Spitzen candidate for the Presidency. The agreement will then be that the largest party will deliver the President of the Commission. A number of members of the Council, including, if I am well informed, the French President Macron, object to this. If you look at the facts, you will see that the turnout in the elections to the EP is 40% and 80% in the national elections to this Parliament. What's to be done? As far as the VVD is concerned, the European Council must appoint the most appropriate candidate and not leave it to the back room of political parties. It is also important that the President of the Commission should be neutral and not political. Mr Juncker referred to his Commission as 'political'. That doesn't help if you want to act as an independent guardian and enforcer of the treaties. As I said, the turnout in elections to national parliaments is greater than in the elections to the EP. The European Council therefore has an enormous democratic legitimacy to designate the President of the Commission. As far as the VVD is concerned, the Spitzenkandidat procedure must therefore be stopped. My question to the Prime Minister is: does he agree with the VVD? Then there is the composition of the European Parliament. I have already said something about this: 23 British seats released do not fill in. But the debate on transnational lists, which the cabinet says is actually over, also seems to be returning to the agenda of the European Council. As far as the VVD is concerned, you should not do that, because then the big countries will only get more seats. The question is also: is there a single European population? I see I've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u53	You've got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u54	Finally, the European Treaty speaks of an 'ever closing union among the people of Europe'. This is not about one population, it is about several populations. If there had been one European population, the American constitution would have been copied: "we, the people of the United States." Is the Prime Minister against that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u55	Against the transnational lists?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u56	Yeah, against the transnational lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u57	At the moment, something strange is happening in Europe and at the same time something very strategic from the European Commission: it is quacking a lot of dossiers on the table and it believes that this decision-making should take place in a huge cooker: enlargement, euro, multi-annual budget and so on. We cannot just say no; that is a bit what coalition partner D66 places everywhere and the frame that D66 creates. But does the VVD agree with the SP that we should not exchange these kinds of files with each other but that we should look at what wisdom is, where the majorities lie and whether or not we should agree and, for example, that we should not exchange a lower budget against the accession of six Balkan countries by 2025?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u58	It is true that there are a lot of subjects. In part we are against as VVD, but in part we are also in favour. I have already said what we are for: tackling migration, security, climate and completion of the internal market, which is one of the following summits. So we're very much in favour of that. For that we have a very offensive agenda. This also applies: I would not say before any negotiation begins that you have to trade it out. These are the starting points for each subject. That's how you start your bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u59	I think everyone in this debate is in favour of something and is against something, but we are seeing the offensive strategy of Juncker, the President of the European Commission, the political chairman, who said in his State of the Union: we are going to have a little time together. Before the European elections, before he leaves: more countries, all countries in the euro, a European Minister of Finance, a tax area of his own, a larger budget. It's all in that trend. And the Netherlands actually says: well, take it easy for a second. Does the VVD guarantee here that she's saying, "We're not gonna trade between those files?" Because that is what the European Commission wants, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u60	Okay. Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u61	Three things lost, but three things won.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u62	Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u63	We shouldn't be in that game.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u64	Here he comes again: guarantee. It is: always formulate your commitment. That's where we are now. Then comes the concrete proposal on the MFF in May. Then, also at the Sofia Summit in May, there will also be a concrete proposal on the Western Balkans. Then we have to tell them what we think. But of course I will not say in advance: we are going to exchange. Then you're already giving away. Don't ever do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u65	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u66	The VVD does not want to exchange in advance in these discussions. You shouldn't do it in the back either. You shouldn't go down there, either. All these issues are about surrendering the sovereignty of the Member States: reducing autonomy and less direct democracy. In all these areas, we can simply say no with veto. So "do not exchange in advance"... I think we should just be very clear: we are not in favour of exchange. And that we're gonna deal with those files faster...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u67	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u68	..............................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u69	Everything is essential what we do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u70	Yes. But we'll send the minister out. Mr Mulder and I happened to do that on behalf of the Chamber on the issue of the multiannual budget. That was with an offensive proposal: cuts and reforms, not a larger budget. We're very good at working together. But I would be very sorry if we were to win that and at the same time allow it on another file, because there is a cow trade, when that dossier needs its own discussion and consideration. I don't want a vague commitment from the VVD. I want the VVD to acknowledge that we still have sovereignty in all these areas and can simply say no, from our strength as a Member State of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u71	This was a really long interruption. If we continue in this way, then we really need to clear the whole agenda just to talk about this. You can't do that, Mrs. Leijten. And that is not only for you, before you respond to it; I will give you the floor. It applies to everyone. "No more interruptions" is being called. No, we're not. Interrupts, though. It's a recurring problem. I know that. But it applies to everyone. An interruption is really a short remark, a short question. And then I will give you every opportunity to get an answer to that. I give... Mrs. Leijten. No introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u72	No, I'm not. This is also a reaction to you. When you're finishing a sentence and when the chairman tries to get you to finish, you start over. In the end, it's gonna be a long interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u73	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u74	It's chicken egg. I asked the VVD: we're not gonna exchange files anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u75	Clear, clear!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u76	Agreed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u77	You could have said that right. Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u78	My commitment would indeed be to tackle the subject by topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u79	I was fascinated by Mr Mulder's comment on the democratic content of the Council. We all know that Europe is suffering from a major democratic deficit. I call the European Parliament, with a low turnout and so on. The European Commission is a very special story. I now get the impression that the European Council would actually have a fairly high democratic content, certainly relative, if I understand you correctly. It should therefore also determine who will be the President of the Commission. We tried to hand a report to Tusk at the European Council on Monday, but he didn't give it at home. Centeno, even less democratic, by the way. What is the democratic nature of the Council for you? Of course, the Prime Minister is indirectly elected, namely by parliaments. But there is also a very large distance between the national parliaments but certainly from the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mr. Van Rooijen, what was the discussion between me and Mrs. Leijten just about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u81	No, I don't think so. Mr Mulder literally said to the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u82	No, no, no, it was about short interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u83	Oh, but this seemed a lot shorter when I was watching time. I guess this wasn't a third of the interruption... I was afraid of it. If you speak after Mrs Leijten, you will always be told to speak briefly! By the way, all due respect for her input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u84	Yeah, okay. This was very brief for you; that is true. Proceed, Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u85	I outlined: where is the primacy to appoint a President of the Commission and who is the most democratically legitimized? I said that the turnout rate for the European Parliament is around 40%. For the national parliaments, this is often towards the 80%. There is therefore an enormous democratic legitimacy to designate the President of the Commission. So, through the Prime Minister, I would say to the European Council: take the primacy that the Council has. That's the point. And then there is transparency. My group has supported what Mr Leijten, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Rooijen are trying to do, namely to increase transparency in the European Council and in the Eurogroup. It's very good to do that. Then people will know exactly what's going on there. That would be good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u86	But do you think that the position of the European Parliament should be strengthened? Or do you say that it is no big deal; let us let the democratic Council take decisions like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u87	I am talking about the President of the Commission. The European Parliament can also be a little more transparent. This is what the so-called trilogues in which the Council, the Commission and Parliament make a compromise behind closed doors. Well, that wouldn't work in this parliament. So there too there is still an improvement to be made in transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u88	Mr Mulder is being very tough about this high-level candidate. He says: get rid of it; the Council must take its responsibility. The point is that the Council is not about that at all. The European Parliament has said by a large majority that the parties want such candidates. In the end, the Council will have to come to some sort of comparison with Parliament. I assume that Mr Mulder agrees. You can say "get rid of it" now, but they'll be there soon. That is what parties are about, not the ministers. A solution will have to be found between the Council and Parliament. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u89	Mr Van Ojik gives a very nice outline of this in his contribution. The Treaty states that the European Council makes a proposal. It does not say: the European Parliament is making a proposal. So I say to the European Council, through the Prime Minister: do what is in the Treaty; do your job and appoint a candidate. Now the European Parliament is trying to reverse that, so that they can appoint the candidate. That is not in accordance with the Treaty. But Mr Van Ojik is right that the European Parliament will finally have the last word. That's right. Something will have to be done there. But now the European Parliament did some sort of coup in 2014. Then there will be a President of the Commission who calls himself political. That does not seem to me to be a good thing, because then you will have a political Commission President instead of a neutral guardian of the treaties, and that is what we suffer from as the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u90	Here too it is good to tell the honest story, as was always mentioned under Rutte II. In the end, the European Parliament has the opportunity to say that we do not want a candidate proposed by the Council. There's gonna have to be a match. So here very tough saying "gone with that rush candidate," doesn't really help to bring the comparison closer later. That's my conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u91	Good. Then I'd like to thank you, Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u92	Apparently, Mr Van Ojik is okay with the process as it is now, which has appointed President Juncker, who calls himself politics. Does he agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u93	No, you weren't meant to raise a counter-question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u94	Well, chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u95	Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u96	It's not about whether I'm okay with that. My group has indeed voted in favour of this in the European Parliament. But even if you don't like this, it's good to realize that you're not about it. If the parties, as Mr Mulder's Liberal Group, do not want to designate a Spitzenkandidat, they do not. But if other groups do, and eventually a candidate from the Council who does not want to vote away by a majority, there will still have to be a comparison. So the question is not at all whether I and Mr Mulder think it is a good idea. I think it's a good idea. He doesn't think it's a good idea. Fine, but they're coming!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u97	You made that clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u98	So I don't agree with that last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u99	That's good to know. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u100	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. With the Brexit in sight, this calls for a repositioning of all Member States within the European Union, including the Netherlands. Since the axis of Germany-France will be dominant in the coming period, in the eyes of the Christian Union, the aim of the Dutch government must be to build a coalition of medium-sized northern countries, which can support the German side of that dominant axis. The Christian Union has a leading role for the Dutch Prime Minister, also in view of his record. At the same time, we must not lose sight of the band and the line with Germany and France. I'm asking the Prime Minister how he looks at this himself. Mr. Chairman. The departure of the British has implications for the budget and the Multiannual Financial Framework. They're a big net contributor, so there's a big bite out of the budget. According to the Commission and a number of Member States, this gap must be filled. The Christian Union calls on the Dutch Government to maintain the line that the European budget will have to shrink with the loss of the British. If there's less money coming in, you should also keep your own spending under review. The Christian Union attaches great importance to transparency. The information collected by the European Commission on the spending reviews of the various institutions should be made public. Will the Prime Minister insist on this again? Mr. Chairman. We are now seeing a European Commission that wants more money and more powers, but the Christian Union is wondering what exactly happened to the Timmermans agenda. He would go through European legislation to see what powers and agreements could be returned to the Member States. What happened to that? Mr. Chairman. The Brexit affects the composition of the European Parliament. The starting point for the Christian Union is: the British out, therefore, lift those seats. It seems that within the Union there is a partial redistribution of British seats. Can the Prime Minister outline the relations within the European Council on this issue? Mr. Chairman. In addition to all the attention given to the Multiannual Financial Framework, the Christian Union is also keen to draw attention to institutional matters, which we must not forget. This is often about foundations, for example when it comes to the representation of Member States within the European Parliament. Take the statute for European political parties. It proposes to decide at European level which national parties may be recognised as political parties at European level. That's way out of line, isn't it? Independent parliamentarians cannot register a European party according to the proposals. This touches on the foundations, for example, to give minorities the opportunity to be represented in the European Parliament. Small parties are disproportionately affected by this. Does the government agree with the Christian Union that easy access for parties to the European system should be maintained and that it is undesirable for the European Commission to interfere in national political structures? We wonder whether the word subsidiarity still exists in the dictionary of the European Commission. Mr. Chairman. The plan to introduce a threshold for voting in the European Parliament is still on the table. However, an electoral threshold would be at the expense of the pluralism we cherish in the Netherlands. Does the Prime Minister agree with the Christian Union that such a threshold is undesirable? But if it looks like the Netherlands can't stop it, that electoral threshold shouldn't hit the Netherlands. Does the cabinet wish to make an effort to this end? The proposal for transnational lists seems to be off the table. Fortunately, this was voted away by Parliament. However, I would also like to receive confirmation from the Prime Minister in this debate that these plans are really off the table. The Christian Union is also critical of the designation of Spitzen candidates by the European Parliament. We would like to stick to the procedure laid down in the Treaty. The designation of Spitzen candidates really does work strangely for the European population. We ask the Cabinet to oppose this and to work towards it within the European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u101	My question to Mrs Van der Graaf concerns the first part of her speech, namely the Multiannual Financial Framework. The group chairman of the Christian Union said: it is very simple, not an extra penny. Or something like that: there is no extra money going to Brussels. Is that a negotiating commitment or is that a promise to the Dutch citizen? We have had some bad experiences in the past with such promises.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u102	I understand your question. The Christian Union considers it very important that we enter into negotiations within the European Council with this commitment. It's weird that when less money comes in, you don't take a critical look at your own spending pattern. We know that the European Commission has collected information on this. It's also crazy not to bring it out. We, as European citizens, have a right to know that, don't we? The question of whether extra money should be added is not at all at the moment. Before we discuss it, we need to know where we can get another one off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u103	If I understand correctly, that is a clear answer. It is a commitment to the negotiations, but it is not a promise in the sense of "not a penny to Greece" or anything like that. I don't think we should make that kind of promise. That's why I'm asking. I hear Mrs Van der Graaf say that it is a commitment to our negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u104	I have argued here that the cabinet should really stick to the line that the European budget will not be expanded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u105	Actually, I'd like to ask another way. The Christian Union and we do not always agree on Europe. But we know the Christian Union as being very honest about what is real and what you should expect. If you see what has to be done to control the flow of refugees, something that is also very much to your heart, and what is needed for the climate, and if you see that our partner Germany has already referred to you there is a different line, is it real to say here with all of us: there should not be a penny? We agree that there is a need to cut back. But do you think it is real to say so, even in the direction of your constituents?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u106	I have argued here that the Christian Union considers this to be very important. We are now at the stage of the negotiations on the multiannual budget for the future. We think the picture should be fair. Put all the cards on the table! They're not there at the moment. The Christian Union is really in favour of this and therefore calls on the cabinet to stick to the line that the European budget is not being expanded. That is indeed the stakes now. If you get less money in, it's really weird that you don't also take a good look at your spending pattern. Maybe, in addition, I can say that the Christian Union considers it very important that we work together on issues where it has added value to tackle them at European level, such as migration, climate and energy. We need to work together in these areas, but we also need to see where it can be reduced. We have ideas about that too. We think that this should be looked at. That's part of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u107	We shouldn't be too shady. It is said that this is part of the negotiations, of the commitment and so on. At the same time, there are very big words outside this Chamber: the Prime Minister must come back with them, this is what the Netherlands is going to do! Bram van Ojik asked for this too. This will eventually become problematic in the direction of the electorate. I think you should be honest and say: we would like it, but we wait it quietly. This also means that you accept it if the outcome is that the contribution of the Netherlands may be 1% higher. If you don't, or if you're outside suggesting that you don't, you should say the same here. Then you cannot say: it is just the beginning of the negotiations. Because an expectation is being raised among the voters. It is precisely at this point in the Christian Union that I would say that you have always had a clear position, but also a very real one. Then be clear. It's two-and-a-half. Or you say: you don't have to come back with another result; use your veto and do whatever it takes, but don't add a penny. Or you say it's a negotiation commitment and it would be nice. The latter is a very different sound than sounds outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u108	I note that Mr Asscher is already much further in the process and may know about the results of negotiations that I have no knowledge of yet. I note that at this stage, when we talk about the European multi-annual budget, the Christian Union insists that the commitment of the Netherlands should really be aimed at not increasing European spending. The Christian Union also supports the line proposed by the cabinet. You have to look at your expenses. This also underlines the vision of the Christian Union. You're gonna have to take a look at your expenses. Look, for example, at how the CAP, that agricultural fund, is currently being designed. See if you can modernise that. See if you can organise the European Cohesion Funds in a better way. See where we can cut down on us, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u109	The Christian Union says not a penny. I just heard the fellow Member say that the Prime Minister should really stick to that. We now hear news from Brussels that it is going to look like a lot of money has to be added. Does this mean that the Prime Minister is going to use his veto at a time when it is going to be a little different from what you had in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u110	I see that the pressure from the other Member States is increasing, but that does not mean that the Netherlands has to give in at the moment. For now, the cabinet really needs to hold on to that line. I am also very curious to see what the playing field is like right now. That's a question I'm going to pass on to the cabinet. Show us that image as a parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u111	So the Christian Union believes that Prime Minister Rutte should veto when money is needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u112	The Christian Union believes that the Dutch government should now stick to the European budget and that this budget should shrink as a result of the loss of British money when the British leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u113	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u114	So holding on means putting in the veto? If you don't have any consequences, "holding" is more of a word for the stage, actually just a big wash nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u115	I feel like this is just a repeat of moves. I think I have been clear about the position of the Christian Union on this point. I just want to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u116	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u117	Mr. Chairman. During the COSAC in November last year, the Chamber, together with 26 other EU Parliaments, wrote a letter to the Council. We insist that the European documents be made public, as well as the votes. The Council turns out to be a black box. He's such a big black box that we still haven't had a reaction, not from this government and not from the Council. And that while the problem is life-size. The documents for today we are allowed to observe confidentially at the Registry. This means that we cannot even quote from the questions being discussed. Now you can tell them a little bit from the questions that have been asked. Will the government itself, within a week, respond to that proposal, promote this report on the agenda of the next European summit and make the recommendations positive? Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of February, the Commission presented an ambition for enlargement of the Western Balkans, Bulgaria's accession to the euro and Bulgaria's accession to Schengen. These issues are not on the agenda for the CDA, because the countries do not meet the conditions. The Balkans have six flagship conditions: the rule of law in order, security and migration, socio-economic development, transport and energy connectivity, a digital agenda and, yes, reconciliation and good relations with neighbouring countries. They're just not in sight yet. Does the government share that on these three points? Because what have we learned from the accession of Romania and Bulgaria? If a country does not meet the criteria and does not do so, it will not do so immediately after it has been admitted. The same was true for Greece and the euro and the same was true for Albania as a candidate country. These are three examples where the CDA voted against, not because we voted against the EU but because we are in favour of the EU. If you meet rules and you don't stick to them, you cut your fingers. I am still convinced that we would have done the Greeks a favour if we had not admitted them to the euro. Mr. Chairman. As regards the MFF, the CDA supports the government's commitment. No extra money for the EU. Priorities need to be adapted to the resources and not the other way around, because that is what Juncker is proposing. The EU needs to deal with resources better and more efficiently. Commissioner Timmermans was appointed by Juncker to achieve this, but is now performing a different sound. How does the Prime Minister look at his recent remarks that he should now be defending the sound of Timmermans? Also very practical: there are quite a few countries that have budgetary problems and if they were to say 'hop up and finance the budget with money from others' first, then the European Union would say: no, that is not what we mean by putting the budget in order. Well, you also rule, for example. Therefore, support for the Prime Minister. I would like some more information about what he has discussed with Merkel; interesting things happen every time in Berlin. I would like to emphasise that the CDA attaches importance to the common agricultural policy and takes account of the position of agriculture within the MFF. Last time, the Netherlands realised a small billion euro less contribution, but Dutch agriculture had to cough up most of it. It created a significant level playing field in the EU. Our agriculture must not suffer unilaterally from the MFF as a final result. Does the Prime Minister share that? Mr. Chairman. I will now come to another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u118	I think you're about to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u119	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u120	I'd do that first. Then you'll have the opportunity to interrupt, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u121	Mr. Chairman. Then the ECB. The President of the Central Bank of Latvia has been arrested for fraud. Can there be an arrangement that such a person is temporarily not in the Governing Council of the ECB? What about the execution of the motion that Draghi is not chairman of the Systemic Risk Board? Finally. We had asked questions about the supplementary pension fund of the European Parliament, with 37% coverage; I did not see any answers, but I also asked the questions a little late. If the same were to happen in the Netherlands, the pensions would be reduced by 63% by the European Supervisory Authority. Would the Prime Minister please write a letter to EIOPA to ensure that it does so, so that we do not pay the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u122	My question is about the budget. Mr Omtzigt was incredibly clear about it. He said that the budget must not be raised and that you must adapt the priorities to the resources rather than the other way around. That is a clear point of view. But what does that mean in practice? You have priorities, such as border surveillance, climate change, security and counter-terrorism. If necessary, you are prepared not to do so. That is what Mr Omtzigt says, because you have already agreed in advance that there should not be a penny. Is that the CDA's point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u123	This is a nice way to frame it. If you have priorities, you also have to decide what to do less. I could imagine that there would be less Structural Funds, one of the two major items in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u124	I get that. Of course, you can do less, although we cannot get agricultural subsidies, if I have listened carefully to Mr Omtzigt's speech. Anyway, of course, you should do less, as I said. If necessary, you are willing, as the CDA says, to what your priorities are. I mentioned a number of them and probably we share most of them not to do so because you have set a ceiling on the resources in advance. Is that the position or commitment with which the CDA intends to enter into negotiations in the coming year at least? It's possible. I'd do it the other way around, but at least it'll be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u125	The combination of the priorities mentioned by Mr Van Ojik has been spent less in recent years than in the Structural Funds. So I didn't give you any small coverage, as happens here in the Chamber when you cut a little bit. The European pension fund is a small cover. It should not happen, but I am not going to say that it will solve all European problems. Let me just say that for the sake of clarity. There is a great deal of room for manoeuvre in the Structural Funds. There are quite a few countries with financial problems. If you say 'we are going to push up the European contribution for everyone', those countries must say 'yes, but we do not comply with budgetary standards'. I really think that's the opposite world. Finally, I would like to express support for the government not to turn to European electoral lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u126	For the sake of clarity, do I hear Mr Omtzigt say that if there is a need for more savings, but that he only mentions the cohesion funds as an option? Mr Van Ojik also pointed out that he did not explicitly mention agriculture. Does he want to ignore the whole agricultural subsidy or is he prepared to look at innovation in it? If you leave the entire agricultural sector out of it, you can hardly find room for new priorities because the biggest block remains unchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u127	I don't want things to go the way they did last time. That's exactly what I said. Then we got the discount but it was almost entirely financed by Dutch agriculture. If the focus of agricultural policy is more on innovation, the CDA Group will have no objection to it. In fact, we have the most innovative agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u128	I have a question that's a little more global. There's a lot of files on the table. The European Commission wants to make haste on all kinds of issues. The big risk is that one thing will now be exchanged against the other, a kind of cow-trading: you have a lower budget, we have the accession of the Balkan countries. Does the CDA agree with the SP that we should not enter into negotiations in Brussels in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u129	Mrs Leijten mentions a number of dossiers in which countries have a right of veto. I'll check them out. In the area of accession, countries have the right of veto at every step. So there is no exchange at all: either you agree or you do not agree. The same applies to the MFF. This is not an exchange because all countries must agree to the MFF. That is also one of the reasons why these negotiations are so difficult, I can tell you, because there are many countries that find something difficult. I also mentioned the European Choosing Act. There too there is unanimity, because otherwise the European Choosing Act cannot be changed. I just told you that we are against the European electoral lists. They are, of course, ridiculous, because if you want to vote for the Prime Minister of France, you must live at the mouth of the Seine, because that is where his constituency lies. Mrs Merkel's constituency is located in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. If you live in North Rhine-Westphalia, you cannot even vote for Mrs Merkel. So why introduce European electoral lists in Europe when the Netherlands is the only country with national electoral lists? And then there is the drama of how big the ballot will be for European electoral lists for 700 seats, but that's all. There are separate negotiations on this. A number of other dossiers, decided by qualified majority or by a weighted qualified majority, will have to be negotiated. The Netherlands will sometimes have to give something there and sometimes have to take something. There are 27 of us and there are 28 of us in the European Union at the moment. If the Dutch Government does not get 100% of what it wants in the negotiations, I could imagine that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u130	Thank you to Mr Omtzigt for this lecture. Of course, it wasn't what I asked. We do know that behind the scenes there is wheeling and dealing, that things are exchanged, even at post level. In the near future, there are still some positions to be forgiven in Europe. It is precisely because we cannot follow how the negotiations are going, what the votes are and what the positions of the Member States have actually been, that I would like to hear from the CDA a 'yes' to whether we should tell the Prime Minister that there should be no exchange. That is precisely the European Commission's strategy. You put as much on the table as possible and then you hope that at least there are a few things left that can then be pushed through, while that is unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u131	I know that trick by now. If I give you a complete answer, it's a college. If I answer briefly, I won't answer. I have just mentioned the dossiers on which the Netherlands has a right of veto because it is decided unanimously. There is therefore no need to exchange views, where the Netherlands can maintain its position. On other files that are decided by a majority, you might be negotiating to see if you're in a majority coalition. That doesn't seem weird at all. Bulgaria in Schengen, for example, must be accepted by everyone, so the Netherlands can say no. We know that there are two other major countries in the European Union that are on the side of the Netherlands; I hope that will remain so. There is a list of things about which your views are simply clear and there is a list for which it is not. For certain things, we even have to give our consent as a parliament; think of the European Choice Act. If we as Parliament do not agree to this, if we do not ratify, then nothing will happen. That is why our signal is: do not do those European lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u132	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u133	I didn't mean to bother Mr Omtzigt when I said it was a college. It was a broad answer. He explained where we could finally say no. The fact is that the Netherlands has never used its veto. The fact is that of course water is always put in the wine. And I'd like to know the position of the CDA group. The European Commission is clear: it puts on the table as many files as possible in the hope that some will pass and others will be delayed. They're all files that you should intrinsically assess on your own merits. There should be no trade-out between them. Does Mr Omtzig agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u134	Yeah, files need to be assessed on their merits. I have mentioned exactly the merits of the CDA Group's assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u135	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u136	Thank you, Mr President. I have just heard from the Prime Minister that we have won gold again at the Games, but we are talking about the future of Europe. Europe is moving. The wind's back in the sails. After last year's election in France, Macron, a pro-European coalition in Germany is now in the making. Commentators, experts, EU watchers all speak to each other: the Franco-German axis is relived. Now that the British are leaving the Union, it is time to reform the Union. That's a bit of a message. But what is the Dutch response to that? Chopping in the sand, kicking on the brake and especially saying no. I get the reflex, but it's not wise. Mr. Chairman. D66 thinks we shouldn't stare blindly at that Franco-German axis. No, let's see that axis as part of a triangle with a Dutch-French axis and a Dutch-German axis, in which we might be the laughing third. And yes, that also means being critical, because not everything Macron and Merkel want is good for the Netherlands. Macron, for example, wants a parliament for the euro. D66 does not like that, but we are in favour of that European electoral list of Macron. Let's look at it on a case-by-case basis, let's not shake like a chicken without a head, but let's not throttle like a chicken without a head. I would like to say to the Prime Minister: take the wheel to get the EU in the right direction. This is urgently needed, because the EU is not targeted, it is not decisive and it is not democratic enough, and we cannot do so without the European Union to meet the great challenges of our time. I would like to repeat it to Mr Mulder: climate change, the fight against terrorism, the surveillance of external borders. These are major cross-border issues. The Netherlands, like Angela Merkel, wants an EU that delivers and achieves its goals in the interests of the Member States, in the interests of the people of Europe. Mr. Chairman. This European summit is the time to correct European looming errors. That is why D66 has published a plan for real European politics, starting with a stronger Parliament with European electoral lists, so that as a Dutchman you can also vote for a German or a Spaniard. Parliament must also be more effective. That is again in the German coalition agreement. In this we can work together, for example for a Parliament that makes its own laws, is able to monitor the multiannual budget well and has one meeting place of its own. Then the European Commission... Then there is the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u137	Mr Verhoeven can put his ideals of democracy into practice this afternoon in the vote on the referendum law, but I think we are talking about something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u138	Then why bring it up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u139	Because your speech was a great distraction. I have seen that Mr Verhoeven is extremely critical of this Prime Minister. That's possible, but D66 is a coalition party. He has indicated on Twitter; at least it seemed to come from his account: the Prime Minister makes promises with a shelf life until 21 March. That's a pretty harsh accusation. He's talking about headless chickens, but I see a lamb, a little lamb, because I haven't heard anything about it. If you say something like that in the media, say it on Twitter, do it in parliament. I agree with Verhoeven: no false promises about not a penny. But be sharp here, too. So be clear here against the Prime Minister. Let D66 do no distractions for a moment, but hold the debate here. Does the Prime Minister speak on behalf of D66 when he says "not a penny in it," yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u140	I speak on behalf of D66 and the Prime Minister speaks on behalf of the cabinet. I think this is a somewhat far-reaching interruption by Mr Asscher, and I really do not know him that way. He quotes a tweet of mine in which I did say that I do not think we should anticipate the outcome, but that the Prime Minister's commitment is clear as far as I am concerned. I am not even halfway through my speech and will say so, so there is no question of a diversion. Mr Asscher had just made a wonderful speech about taking responsibility and leadership. He is precisely translating my comments that are in his line of action. Don't make false promises in a way that is as rhetorically directed as that which he despises so much in others. He's actually acting like the ones he molests. I do not think that Mr Asscher is strong. I've been very clear on Twitter, just a public source. There was a wink behind it. I'm just saying, I think the Prime Minister tends a little too much to make a promise in election time. I've said that a lot here. But I have also said many other things about this Prime Minister, namely that he knows his way around Europe very well and that if 27 countries start negotiating you don't know where you come from. I made that point clear without any subtlety or nuance. I'm not a sheep. I'm just a D66 man and I stand for what I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u141	Now I like it all. Now Mr Verhoeven is going to complain that I am asking him about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u142	No, the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u143	D66 is a coalition party. It's getting used to, I get that, but it's a coalition party. If a coalition party says 'we do not trust the Prime Minister, at least, this is sustainable until 21 March', it must be discussed here in Parliament. That does not change the fact that we are in favour of European cooperation. This is a very important debate. The impression is given by the cabinet that the most important message in Europe is not a penny added. D66 says that's not on our behalf, wink, until March 21st. That's not how you treat voters. This is far too important to send a cabinet in this way, so I repeat the question. He doesn't speak for D66; I understand that too. Does the cabinet speak on behalf of D66 if the only message is not a penny? Or are we going to give this together: no, fine as a commitment, but not these kind of cheap false promises anymore? That's important, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u144	Mr Asscher and I are in complete agreement. Mr Asscher brings it now as if I have not done well. I don't think that's an interesting discussion, so I'm not going to go into that. Your question was very long and I would like to comment on the content of your question. This Prime Minister has been the leader of the Netherlands in Europe for seven years and has done a lot of good things there. That's good. He does so on behalf of our cabinet and therefore also on behalf of the cabinet of which D66 is a member. I trust him completely in that. What I do not want is for us now to anticipate the outcome of the negotiations that we are going to be in in the coming years. The Netherlands has a very clear commitment. That is the commitment I would sum up as: we are funding the Brexithole and the extra tasks with closed grants by cutting back on agriculture and cohesion. That is in one sense the commitment of D66 and also of this cabinet. The subtlety that confuses Mr Asscher and which, unfortunately, he deals with somewhat robustly, but I forgive him, is that I think we should be careful about putting out an outcome that we do not know yet. That could lead to a disappointed voter saying: yes, but I was promised that. I think the Prime Minister has made that mistake in the past. As a good coalition partner, I want to save him from that. That is my job and that is what I have done, on behalf of D66 and also on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u145	Mr Asscher, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u146	It's special when you respond so incredibly arrogantly to a question that makes sense. I think it is really inappropriate to do that: Mr Asscher is a little confused, he does not understand. But I really understand what's going on. It is promised by the right-wing parties that there will not be a penny, Mr Verhoeven and I know that at the end of the song there is not at all certain that it is, everyone agrees with that effort, we all want two things for the price of one, he sends a tweet about it that says 'I do not trust the Prime Minister, wink', but that is not free. It's not a well-intentioned warning, because you would have called him. In public, prior to this debate, D66 says: don't trust the Prime Minister when he says so. Then let's give it to you together: dear Prime Minister, with all due respect and appreciation, no longer make such promises, be honest. In the Financieel Dagblad Verhoeven says: be honest about what you do and not compromise about. We have to say that now in Parliament, and then we are going to enforce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u147	I am sorry that you can agree on the substance of the matter in such a way that, because of the choice of a political form, you have to discuss it with each other in this way. Mr Asscher knows exactly what is going on. I have been very clear on the substance of D66. I think that's what this is about. I do not think that Mr Asscher pretends to be confused or that he does not understand how I mean it, that I am going to explain it and then call it arrogant. I would say: let's talk about the content. That was the second part of Mr Asscher's third interruption, and I fully agree with that. I have just said that we need to be very clear about the commitment. In my opinion, everyone in this Chamber agrees that we want the Netherlands not to pay for the Brexit hole, that we are cutting back on agricultural and cohesion funds, that we can spend more money on border surveillance, migration, climate change, combating terrorism, and that we do so with a closed scholarship.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u148	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u149	But we all know that there is a chance in the negotiation process that it will not be 100% what the Netherlands wants, but 80%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u150	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u151	Well, I think we should accept that and not make the mistake of promising things that might not turn out to be true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u152	Perhaps a follow-up to Mr Asscher's question, not so much because of the tweet, but because it is important to know whether you can possibly get more money, because the sum of all those priorities that we obviously agree on and the Brexithole may not be exactly in line with what you are going to cut back on agricultural and structural funds, to follow Mr Verhoeven's comparison. That is why it is important to see whether the statement made by Mr Verhoeven, at least according to De Telegraaf, is correct if more money is needed. Because then we know where D66 is, then it may be that at the end more money might go to the multiannual budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u153	That question is, of course, at the heart of today's debate. I would like to try to make it very clear once again. The commitment of the Netherlands is exactly as expressed by some of the other parties. We do not want to spend extra money on the European Union's multiannual financial framework. We do want additional tasks to be carried out by Europe. We have heard all kinds of examples of this. And the British are disappearing from the Union and leaving a financial gap. The commitment is that we can do this with closed stock exchange, that we will have a Europe that will focus on these big cross-border issues, without the Netherlands having to pay more for them. Now we know that other countries look very differently at these agricultural and cohesion funds. They'll stick to that. I have just heard Mr Omtzigt say: I find that difficult to talk about. We do not need to be tense about that, we have very different views, by all kinds of parties in this Parliament and also by all kinds of countries in the European Union. It's quite a job to make that a whole. That's all gonna be set in motion over the next few months, years. All I've said is I don't know the outcome. This is now cited in different terms. Mr Asscher is talking about a tweet and you are talking about a Telegraph article. I want the stakes to be clear, but I don't promise it'll turn into this. You ask: can it be that the Netherlands still have to pay more for the Multiannual Financial Framework? I'd say that can't be ruled out. If we do that, we will do so because it will give us more security, more external border surveillance, more terrorist approach and more climate improvement. I think that's something we need to discuss in the Chamber at the time. I'm just not taking an advance on anything; that's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u154	This is very important indeed. In fact, Mr Verhoeven says that we may end up with a higher budget; that is what we are defending because in return we will have more security, a cleaner environment and better border control. This is important because otherwise you make a promise again which is quite likely to be taken back later, to put it very simply. That is what the debate is about today. That's why it's important that it's clear where D66 is. D66 says this is our bet, but we don't rule out...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u155	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u156	...that a higher multiannual budget will eventually come out. That is what I hear Mr Verhoeven say. It's important to establish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u157	Well, that's kind of a summary. I'm not making a promise. I also heard Mr Asscher say in his speech that I promised that more money would go to the European Union. I didn't say that either, so that's not true. All I have said is: let's not make promises about something we don't know about, but let's work very hard for the best outcome for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u158	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u159	I've just outlined to you what it might look like. Then I agree with my coalition colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u160	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u161	Speaking of the coalition, I think D66 is the most pro-European partner in that four-year club. This was also clearly demonstrated last week by a debate with Minister Hoekstra. I hear Mr Verhoeven say 'he is, in my opinion, quite clear, more than others in the coalition' that he is taking account of the fact that a higher budget is going to come out. What if that happens? Then I have the next question to ask him. Has he considered how he is going to pay these additional costs, including the Dutch part? Is he going to reduce the penalty from 30 to 20 years, which has been extended thanks to 50PLUS? Is he going to take it back to 20 or 10 years to close that hole? You are very easy to make the Dutch citizen pay for too few cuts in Europe and for new expenses, because you are so pro-European. I want a clear answer to that, because you have a bad track record.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u162	I don't have such a bad track record at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u163	Your party, not you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u164	Well, neither is my party. Mr. Van Rooijen, I would love to answer your question. But because I happen to be standing here saying that I don't make a promise, you say: oh, then it will cost more; will you explain how the Netherlands will pay for it? I'm sorry I'm not gonna answer that. That is anticipating something I am just saying to ensure that we do not anticipate anything. That's a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u165	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u166	Surely you cannot expect me to answer such a hypothetical question, when I say that we should not get ahead of ourselves? That would be unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u167	I didn't say you wanted to spend more. That's still on parole. I have just said: I take into account that you, as the most pro-European coalition partner, will be the most lenient in this respect. There is a greater chance that there will be more expenditure. I am afraid that you are going to punish the Dutch sparing citizen through that ransom penalty, which you have done before. And then this afternoon you will make the referendum on this payoff impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u168	I wouldn't be so scared. My grandmother always said that people suffer the most from the suffering they fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u169	A quote from Preacher Nicolaas Beets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u170	Then this remark has also been made. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u171	I have seen that Mr Verhoeven is heading in a different direction than the coalition and that he is actually warning the Prime Minister. Brussels no-tone can harm Rutte; that was a big head. Then Mr Verhoeven, a coalition partner, says that Rutte must watch his tone, because you cannot always say no. Now I have a situation where Mr Verhoeven's neighbor comes in and says, "Give me the keys to your house. I'm about who comes in now."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u172	Now there's a neighbor coming to visit, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u173	"Give me your wallet. I'm going to spend your money. And oh yeah, in the backyard I'm gonna plant a polluting factory, and you're gonna eat from now on just what you don't like." Then Mr Verhoeven can just say no to handing over that key and his wallet, say no to building his backyard and say no to a meal he doesn't like. Or would Mr Verhoeven say to himself: well, do you have to say yes to your neighbor?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u174	Mrs Leijten's metaphor is what he is, because with Mrs Leijten's use of metaphor in the House of Representatives I have bad experiences. I don't want to fall into that trap again. I really like her metaphor, but I'm sure if I go in on it, it'll be used against me again. So I'm not going to do that, but I'm going to answer your question. Of course, we can always say no to all sorts of things. The Netherlands will do the same. The Netherlands has recently been known as a country that says no to everything rather than a country that says yes to everything. Just the fact that we always say no is bad for getting results. Sometimes you have to say yes and sometimes say no, depending on what you want to achieve. It is not an end in itself to say no to everything to be very strong as a country. You are strong as a country when you reach your goals within Europe. You do that by setting up on the basis of a self-conscious attitude. The Netherlands is part of that French-German-Dutch triangle with which we can be very influential and get a lot of beautiful results.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u175	Yes. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u176	That would be my line, not the line Mrs Leijten would like to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u177	I mentioned this example to show that you are in a situation where you say: ho, this goes too far; this comes to my autonomy, to my house, to my environment. You can also imagine other examples, in which you cannot then be forced to choose just one of those options. I think that we often go to the European Union with a yes and with positive ideas, and that we certainly will. I know that we are dealing with the parliaments themselves in terms of transparency. That's where we'll find each other. The bottomline is that we say no to the transfer of powers, the surrender of sovereignty. Surely the Netherlands can always say no to that if we believe that this affects our own position as a Member State? Then it is not so neat to say to Rutte: moderate your tone in Brussels? No, Rutte sets a line in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u178	Rutte is the prime minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u179	I think it is very nice that Mrs Leijten is now taking over to protect the Prime Minister from the coalition partner D66. I think that's very noble of her. The MPs regularly stand here with all of them at the interrupting microphone to say that it is so scandalous that the coalition doesn't allow anything and the opposition doesn't give any room for anything. The opposition is very sorry about that. We have formed a coalition with four parties that deal with each other in a very relaxed way, with occasionally a tweet, every now and then a reaction to each other, every now and then a question or just look critically at a ruler. I knew in advance that I could afford this remark to the Prime Minister, because we have good contact within this coalition and just talk to each other about things that we think are important. Now I do that once and I am once critical of the Prime Minister's tone in Europe. I've always been critical of that in the past, so I'm just consistent in that. I think it is an important point. I have always said that the Prime Minister has brought in many things for the Netherlands. And now Mrs Leijten is outraged again, because I would have said something unkind to the Prime Minister. I'd almost say it shouldn't get weirder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u180	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u181	I don't think I'm outraged because he said something to the Prime Minister. I would particularly like to explain that as a Member State you can say no to the transfer of sovereignty and the idea that the only solution is always a European solution. I see a lot of meaningful things when it comes to working together and exchanging things in Europe, and so does the Prime Minister. You can say yes to that. So the picture that we are just saying no and that the Prime Minister is just saying no is bizarre. But we say no to the transfer of sovereignty. It would be nice if D66 did too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u182	D66 doesn't. Neither does this government. We are not just saying no to the transfer of sovereignty. I know that Mrs Leijten is very keen to do so. But if we all want to fight climate change, we will have to do so at European level. If we're going to guard our external borders, the Netherlands can't do it alone. The point is that you want to solve certain major cross-border cases at European level. That sounds very nice. The question may then be: does that sometimes mean that you leave something to the European Commission or the European Council instead of just the Member States? My honest answer again: my honest answer to that is: yes, it could be in the interests of the citizen, who then gets more safety or a cleaner climate. That's perfectly normal. And then you can also ask: may that cost extra money, and do you already know how it ends? Then I'll be honest again. Then I say: no, I don't know, but I'm going to do my utmost to keep the costs as low as possible for as good a result as possible. That's how D66 looks at European politics. But be honest with the citizen. That is really very important, Mrs Leijten. We are not just saying yes or just saying no as the Netherlands, really not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u183	If you ask Mrs Leijten a question, she will still have the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u184	I didn't ask a question, but I was crying out to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u185	There's actually two flavors. Or you think that Europe has the primacy to solve everything. Then you think you should say yes and that you should belong to that axis and steer in the right direction. Or say: there is also a primate in the Member States, and that sometimes simply requires a no for the Brussels machine. The fact that I also want to work together on climate and border control is quite different from what I say: decide all this in the European Commission. Those are other issues. So throwing all that into a pile and pretending that whoever says no in Europe is a crazy stallion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u186	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u187	No, it's about sovereignty. D66 should recognize that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u188	Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u189	No, Mr. Chairman, I'm really gonna answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u190	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u191	I am not just going to listen to long interruptions and be told that I have to be brief. I'm not gonna do that. We'll play that game another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u192	No, you've also given very long answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u193	Well, that wasn't so bad. I have also given a short answer a few times. I even used a spell from my grandmother. Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Leijten says there are two flavors. So that's not true. On the contrary, there are a lot of flavors, for example the 27 tastes of the European Member States. In this room alone, we have 14 flavors. It's really not that simple that there are only two flavors. I wish! But it's not. That is why we need to talk about European politics in a nuanced, honest, clear way, and not every time we paint those black and white flavors that don't come true, resulting in disgruntled citizens. That is the way I like to talk about European politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u194	Not only after Mr Verhoeven's speech, to which I listened very carefully, but certainly during the interruptions, I was getting the impression that Mr Verhoeven is actually arguing the same thing that Commissioner Timmermans argued a few days ago. Like: you have to set your priorities and what it costs is the next question. Do I really hear that Mr Verhoeven is actually making himself the spokesman for that line of thinking, more than the coalition members of D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u195	If you had listened to me very carefully, you would have heard that I was somewhere between Mr Timmermans and Mr Mulder. Mr Mulder says very much: it is about what Europe does and then you have to look at what price is attached to it. And Mr. Timmermans is actually about it. He says: the price tag should not be at the forefront; let's just see what the Netherlands thinks is important. Those are, in fact, almost the same positions, reworded. My vocabulary is a bit in between. Let's first see what we think is important, let's try to keep the costs as low as possible and let's make sure that the Netherlands comes out as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u196	I understand that Mr Verhoeven is a little afraid of metaphors, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u197	Only with Mrs. Leijten, you know. Yours...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u198	You can have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u199	Okay, then I'll use the metaphor of the scale from 1 to 10. Mr. Mulder is at 1 and Mr. Timmermans is at 10. Mr Verhoeven is indeed in between, but on 9, I conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u200	That's a conclusion I don't share.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u201	That's very short indeed. Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u202	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. It's the enthusiasm that sometimes makes me a little tedious. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u203	The statement of just now in this coalition is everything fantastic and we tweet relaxingly reminiscent of Balkenende I, with that postcard from the Trêveszaal. That didn't work out so well either. I don't believe at all that it's all fine and fun and cozy when you tweet: don't trust the Prime Minister; what he says is sustainable until 21 March. Mr Verhoeven knows that too. The point is that voters are not only disappointed by broken promises from the Prime Minister, but also by a party that says one thing on Twitter and does something different in the Chamber. So either you don't trust the Prime Minister, you don't think he should make that statement, and you correct him here. There are consequences. Or you just shut up. What is happening now is to say to its own constituents outside this room 'this is what D66 thinks' and within this room 'everything is going well in the coalition and we are in total agreement'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u204	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u205	I'm gonna ask you one more question. Does Mr Verhoeven himself think it is realistic and does he expect the outcome of the negotiations, with the loss of the United Kingdom's net contribution and with all the problems that exist, to be that there will not be a single penny? Does he think that's realistic himself? We'd love to, uh, we both want to win the lottery, but does he think it's realistic?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u206	I will answer Mr Asscher's question in a moment, but now Mr Asscher pretends that I have said something different on a public media platform than here. That is simply not the case. I have been very clear and Mr Asscher knows that. I understand it's his role to be in the opposition...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u207	What's then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u208	Wait a minute, Mr. Asscher. It is his role in the opposition to pretend that there is light between my statements on Twitter and here in the Chamber, but he knows that there isn't. I've been perfectly clear. I have said that the commitment of the Netherlands is the one Mr Rutte mentioned. I just said that Mr Rutte put it away a little too much as a promise. That is why I have indeed referred to the fact that it is election time, with 21 March coming. I have also told Mr Asscher quite openly and publicly that I have said that the Prime Minister has done so before. There's no light between my comments and my bets here and my messages on Twitter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u209	This point has been changed enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u210	Well, this is important...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u211	Yes, very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u212	... because Mr Asscher is now presenting me as an unreliable politician. And he wants reliable politicians. Now he's gonna accuse me of that, about the only one in this Chamber who doesn't make any promises. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u213	Next point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u214	Now the question. Do I think it's realistic? Mr Asscher himself has also spent a long time in European politics. I think there are many Member States that would like to stick to the regional cohesion funds and the agricultural funds. I would therefore find it a fantastic outcome if the Netherlands managed to cut back on this so much that we could pay for the extra tasks with closed stock markets. That would be a fantastic outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u215	Let me make a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u216	But you don't think it's realistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u217	It is realistic that it can be done, but it is also realistic that it could not succeed. Yeah, it's no different. That's it. But look, I don't want to make myself popular by predicting the future, so I guess not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u218	Mr. Van Ojik, I'm giving you the opportunity to ask one question, because you've been the most interrupting of all. And everyone has a little bit of the same rights. I'm ironing over my heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u219	Absolutely, Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't want to prevent anyone from interfering much like me. That's fine. I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u220	No, no, no. You may ask one question and I shall give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u221	In the debate it seems as if Mr Verhoeven says: now I am dualistic and now it is not good again! That's kind of what he's saying. I'd say it's about the consequence you're linking to it. You can tweet, you can say the same here, but in the end it is about what is going to be the line that this cabinet in Brussels will share on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u222	Absolutely. I have outlined very clearly the work carried out by D66, three times in the last fifteen minutes. Perhaps I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u223	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u224	Of course, we cannot commit to the outcome. But at the moment when there is a result and we are discussing it here in the Chamber, I will give my opinion on that outcome. I will therefore refer to what I said today, namely that I did not know what the outcome was and that I am therefore looking at the outcome that lies ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u225	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u226	We were talking about the European Commission. It needs to be made more efficient. That is why D66 would like to maintain the Spitzen candidates, but in future we would like to elect the President of the Commission through European electoral lists, as proposed by Mr Macron. We also want a smaller Commission, without each Member State pointing out a Commissioner every time. The European Commission wants that too, only the Member States are talking about it, so nothing changes. Finally, the European Council, which represents the Member States, must once again become more effective. During the migration crisis and the financial crisis, we saw how important that is. Therefore, the number of vetos must be drastically reduced so that effective decision-making can take place. We just talked about that. I would like a response from the Prime Minister to these proposals. Then there is the multiannual budget, the MFF. The debate on this issue has broken loose. D66 is pretty clear about that. This needs to be reformed with more money for climate, security, innovation, border control, refugee reception and that sort of thing. We need less agricultural subsidies and regional cohesion funds. That's what the coalition agreement says. The commitment of the Netherlands is therefore clear, as I have just said, but the negotiations with 27 Member States are very tough. So my long-awaited question in this debate is: how will the Prime Minister deal with this for a good result in Brussels, without empty promises in The Hague? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u227	Mr Van Rooijen has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u228	I have one final point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u229	I just have one question. Mr Verhoeven wants fewer vetoes for the Council. What does he think of the tax veto? Does he think that this should remain, given that Germany and France are already very close to an agreement on the tax base in Europe? For the rest, that would be a failure accompli. Which vetos should at least remain?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u230	That is a valid point. The vetos on enlargement, treaty change and the MFF should remain. The tax veto? I do not know what veto you mean by that, so could you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u231	There's only one tax veto. Any country, including the Netherlands, can veto all tax matters in Europe. Probably the last veto would kill that. You say that there should be fewer vetos, but do you exclude the possibility of the tax veto being called into question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u232	I'm gonna find out for you, and I'll come back to that in the second term. I think it is part of the MFF and we believe that each Member State should have the possibility of a veto. There are a lot of vetos and a lot of vetos. The latter are no longer there, but are still used in practice. They hinder a lot of decision-making. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister on his speech. It's not the most visionary speech we're going to hear, because it's the Prime Minister's own.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u233	How do you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u234	But it's the most widely discussed speech we're going to hear. The Prime Minister says, "Well, Louis thinks you've already read it," but I don't think he's so suspicious. At least I'm looking forward to that speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u235	I am actually very curious to know which veto D66 is about to abolish. I'll mention a few. There is a veto on the admission of a new Member State. There is a veto in admitting another country to Schengen, because if you have common borders, you have to trust the country completely. There is a tax veto. And there's a veto on the MFF. Which one of the four wants D66 off?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u236	I think there is also a veto on family law, for example. According to D66, this could also be done by a majority. I think it is quite right to ask for a list of which vetos and which ones are not. This is also very concrete in the case of vetos. I said that you must maintain the vetos at the MFF, at enlargement and at the Treaty. Mr Van Rooijen has just asked for the fourth of Mr Omtzigt's list. But there are many more vetos at all levels. There are also vetoes that no longer exist in the Treaty, but in practice they do. That's what we should be looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u237	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-6.u238	I shall suspend the sitting until 2:00 p.m. Then we start with the arrangement of work and then we continue with the debate.
