ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the goodbye to Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP. I shall begin by reading Mr Dijkgraaf's suicide note. "Mrs. Chairman, It is an honor to be a representative of the people for almost eight years. I would have liked to add a few more years to that. But there are circumstances that have made me decide to say goodbye today. I'll come back to that later. When I was elected MP in 2010, I had the expectation to plow on rocks together with Kees van der Staaij. What did a party like the SGP really matter? Nevertheless, I felt obliged to fulfil this fine office. And that from the belief that the Biblical principles are good for everyone. For all Dutchmen. Pretty soon after my swearing in, the situation arose that the SGP votes were regularly crucial for the first Rutte cabinet. And that had a big impact on our group. Many negotiations followed with the cabinet, making it possible to achieve a number of points in the SGP programme. I'm grateful for that. Of course there is still plenty to be desired for us, but politics is a matter of small steps for me. Anyone who takes a step every time and keeps doing it, gets somewhere. If you look too far ahead, you lose the courage to keep walking. To our surprise and wonder we were again needed under Rutte II for a majority. Now together with the friends of the Christian Union and, it took some getting used to, D66. I am grateful to them for the courage to take responsibility for putting public finances in order in extremely difficult financial years. It was not always easy, although I am convinced that what we did then was necessary and good. Menno de Bruijne has often said that in that period I behaved like a child in a candy store. Indeed I enjoyed the beautiful work. From the tension of the negotiations. From fierce debates. Of adopted motions, especially if they were dissuaded. If they're hired, you've got something. I would like only motions to be tabled that are not recommended. That would be a big deal with the votes. And that would make the weapon of motion a lot sharper. I would like to thank fellow chamber members and the staff of the Chamber. Especially the last group of people has made working here a lot more pleasant. Thank you! What about the reporters? Most of the time, I felt right. And PowNews they forgive that they didn't puncture me more often. But now for those circumstances that are the reason for me to say goodbye today. I could simply have left it in personal circumstances. However, that would raise more questions than answer them. That is why I would like to explain these circumstances. For a few years, there's been more and more tension on my marriage. There has been hard work from all sides to resolve this, but it has not been possible so far. As a result, the balance between work and private is no longer right. If you're trying to be a good MP, it's gonna take a lot. If your relationship costs a lot of energy, you turn in on both sides. It knocked me out at the end of December. And now I see that the circumstances require so much that the intensive work of the Member of Parliament is irreconcilable with that. I would like to spend some extra time with my children in the coming period, who have of course also had a difficult time. Fortunately I am doing a lot better and I hope to quickly tackle other challenges, but in a working environment that is less hectic and time-consuming. Therefore, I will not call on the waiting money scheme. I'm grateful to serve in this office. I'm sorry if I let people down by stopping. I would like to thank everyone for their support. Especially since I unsubscribe in January for the last three months. It's heartwarming to see how many people are sympathetic. I would also like to thank the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for their support in these difficult times and for my conscious and personal decision to stop. But I especially thank the almighty God who rules all things. That'll keep me going, not only if it's good, but also if it's bad. Yours truly, Elbert Dijkgraaf."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-6.u2	Dear Mr Dijkgraaf, dear Elbert, I don't think many people thought you'd say goodbye to the House of Representatives today. It was kept secret until about 15 minutes ago. You did that because you believe that colleagues should not be informed through the media, but here in the room. Oh, that's graceful. I speak on behalf of many MPs and many more Dutch when I say we're going to miss you. In 14 days, your party, the Stately Reformed Party, will be 100 years old. The SGP is the oldest political party in the Netherlands that is still represented in parliament. And in those 100 years, your party has characterized itself by men, all men, indeed, who have devoted the best years of their lives to politics. Men like Reverend Zandt, after whom a room in this building is named. And Reverend Christmas, after whom one night was already named in 1925. Long before Schmelzer, Wiegel and Van Thijn took part in that honor. In 2010 you took the seat of Bas van der Vlies. He said goodbye to the Chamber after 29 years. From that point of view, you're a young man with your almost eight years of membership. On the other hand, the average MP currently has four years and six months of experience. You're way above that. If only because as a member of a two-man group, from 2012 onwards a three-man group, you have taken on a lot of debates above average. You and your groupmates have always been very much appreciated for that. So your goodbye comes rather unexpectedly in the light of the traditions of your party. But your farewell is all the more a bitter pill when you look at the energy and enthusiasm with which you have distinguished yourself in the Chamber. Whether it be farmers, sole earners, soldiers, shopkeepers, fishermen, car owners, homeowners or burglars, you interfered with all these citizens. Yeah, burglars, too. Because on a Friday just before the last summer recess a suspicious sujet walked through the House of Representatives. You went after him, and after a long search, you found him in the bathroom. "I'm arresting you," you said, and you grabbed his hand. Then the burglar showed me a piece of paper. It said he was an actor, hired by the police. And you thought, "Whatever!" Any burglar could say he's an actor!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-6.u3	So this guy was having a hard time with you. The incident shows what kind of wood you're made of. The way you looked at it yourself: "I am one of the initiative. You can ask someone else, but you can also go for it yourself." Colleagues appreciate you as a sympathetic and trustworthy MP. And very intelligent, too. A professor of economics leaves the Chamber with you, too. As a mathematician, even from a small opposition party, you had a great influence on the budgetary treatment. Especially in times of tight coalition majority, you could work with people who have totally opposite world views. You also said it in your letter: where some roommates prefer to dive away from the famous pink microphone, you walk towards it. The Rutger Castricums of this time won't catch you. You always react wittyly and with a twinkle in your eyes. It has also brought you a great deal of sympathy far outside your own constituency. That funny, the will to do something different, to surprise others, we also saw in 2015 during the General Political Reviews. In the plenary room we heard a trumpet and a choir from the State Passage. Was this some kind of disorder? A flash mob from the SGP, turned out to be later. Of course, you knew about it a long time ago and rushed with your group mates Kees van der Staaij and Roelof Bishop to the balustrade. You even started singing along. And I have to say honestly: that didn't sound unrewardable! With a warm bass sound you sang Amazing Grace. With that you literally gave voice to your source of inspiration in your political work. Dear Elbert, At the beginning of the year, you said you wouldn't work for a few months because of fatigue. That scared the hell out of us. I think many of us were talking to themselves at the time: do I sometimes go too far, do I work too hard? Do I pay enough attention to home? You've got us thinking. You're gonna slow down and get out of the room. That's a shame! I hope there's something else good in place. Something that brings peace and fulfills your ideals and ambitions. Take care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-6.u4	This resignation was notified to the President of the Central Voting Office and to the Minister for the Interior. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that Elbert can be farewell. You can do that at the Members' Restaurant.
