ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is Mr Van Helvert's question on behalf of the CDA, also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the news that Indonesia would become an increasingly extreme Muslim country. I call Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Madam President. In various media we heard that Indonesia is increasingly governing Christians, other religious minorities and also lhbti'ers. The Netherlands pays an annual contribution to Indonesia to improve police and promote tolerance between religions. Indonesia once seemed to be an example of a tolerant Islamic state, but it continues to slip into intolerance. Last year I asked questions about this to the cabinet, together with colleagues Ten Broeke and Voordewind. The Minister replied last year that the Netherlands supports a community-policing programme in Indonesia until 2020. The minister wrote that the programme contributes to the promotion of tolerance within communities and that the Netherlands thus promotes religious tolerance in Indonesia. The messages are very different. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister. What benefits has the Dutch subsidy paid to Indonesia? When did the Minister have contact with Indonesia about the programme and its benefits? What came out of those conversations? Can we use our subsidy to put pressure on Indonesia to stop the slipping into intolerance immediately? If not, does the Minister intend to delete the grant for 2019 and 2020? And has the grant already been paid for 2018? The coalition program says: we stand up for vulnerable groups, such as Christians and Ihbti'ers. Does the Minister agree that this problem affects precisely these target groups in Indonesia? If so, what is the government going to do to implement the government agreement specifically? Finally, since the Netherlands is a member of the UN Security Council this year, I would like to ask when Indonesia's slipping into intolerance will be addressed in the UN Security Council. What is the Dutch contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Helvert commented on the disturbing noises and images from Indonesia about increasing violence against religious minorities, and also the Christian population and intolerance towards Ihbti people. He asks what is the reaction of the Dutch Government to this, at what times do we express it and what consequences this has for current subsidies. Recently there has been regular contact from the Dutch side with the Indonesian government about the human rights situation. This was done at EU level in February. In 2017, the Human Rights Ambassador visited Indonesia and only at a high level of government there was political consultation. Since then, of course, there has been this terrible attack in Surabaya, whose images are stuck to the retina because, to my knowledge for the first time, entire families were used to commit attacks. Really horrible. The Indonesian authorities have also expressed their disgust at this. Next Sunday I will speak to my Indonesian colleague Marsudi in the context of the G20 conference in Buenos Aires. There I will express my concerns and inform you about the Indonesian measures in this area. Information on the actual expenditure under the grant programme requested by Mr Van Helvert will be sent to the Chamber in writing. Mr Van Helvert will be able to imagine that I cannot tell by heart what amounts have been provided under an individual grant programme this year. I can also deal with the question of what will happen in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u5	All the understanding that precise amounts are not available. That was not the question, by the way. Actually, I'm interested in the principle. It's nice that the minister says he's having a meeting with his colleague on Sunday. Then my specific question is whether he is willing to make that link immediately and say to his colleague: listen, colleague, we are paying you subsidies for good police and maintaining tolerance between religious groups and you are not making any sense; you are not making any sense. It is a question of whether this subsidy is used to exert pressure to make it work for the citizens. If not, is the Minister prepared to say that we will withdraw that subsidy if nothing changes? Is there such willingness? Because if we only express concerns but just continue to pay properly, I know what the reaction can be in Indonesia; I can guess at least. In addition, the Minister says that there is regular contact at EU level. I think that's very good, too. Let's do that. My specific questions were about a Dutch grant. I think it is good, especially when you see a country such as Indonesia slipping from tolerance to intolerance, that we, as the Netherlands, and not as the EU, may also ask Indonesia about what they do with our tax money for better police and tolerance between minorities, also because we see very different things in the coverage. This is not something from the last month; it's really been playing a lot and a lot longer. Last July we asked questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u6	Subsidies in support of police, human rights or the rule of law are provided by the Netherlands to countries where the situation in these areas is not at the level deemed desirable by the Netherlands. If we were to immediately end any subsidy at the time we see it, my budget would be very clear. But that does not alter the fact that we have to critically assess whether these subsidies are effective. That is also why I indicated to Mr Van Helvert in my first answer that I would like to do so, but that I do not think it wise to pretend that I can give adequate information to the House of Representatives on an individual grant to an individual country. Of course, in talks with countries to which we support again, that will never be the Switzerlands and the Finlands of this world; they are very nice to me, but they have their affairs properly in order. Of course, it is always stated that we want results from the funds made available. This is not only reported, but also kept up-to-date. But unfortunately, we live in a world where this is the situation. We appeal to countries to do so, but we also sometimes help to improve the situation. Then we want to see results; Mr Van Helvert is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finally, Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to address specifically the questions I asked at the time, about a police officer who made very painful statements especially in the direction of gays and lesbians and who also put penalties on being gay or lesbian. Then the Minister replied that there had not yet been direct contact but that another response was expected. Have any steps been taken at this point from the Dutch Government? Because today a policeman may choose to smack a gay or lesbian on the street, but tomorrow it's a Christian or someone from another religious minority. And we don't want any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u9	That is a fair question, because it is in line with the question of how the subsidies have been spent for the police. So I shall return to that in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. Then Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u11	The CDA spokesperson here is concerned about Islamic violence in Indonesia, but his party and most of the other parties in this house are not giving up on the protection of our own country from Islamic fighters returning from the Islamic State. The supervision that should be exercised on them is far from satisfactory. We've already seen that. The only real protection of our country is not to allow these people to go on or to prosecute them when they are inside. If that is not possible, they must be put into administrative detention. In any case, they must be taken away from the Netherlands. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u12	This is also an important subject. I have answered this question several times in my previous role. As Mr De Roon knows, I, as a minister, also decided on a number of occasions to withdraw the nationality of people involved in terrorist offences. The Public Prosecutor's Office prosecutes people who suspect terrorist offences, even if they are not in the Netherlands. That is what, rightly, convictions have been made for. I know Mr Grapperhaus here behind me, therefore, is to not let terrorist crimes go unpunished and to prosecute the people they commit wherever they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u13	Unfortunately, in the last few days in Surabaya, we saw three terrible attacks, including on churches, with many deaths. Is it true that jihadist attacks are increasing in Indonesia at the moment, also because they may be migrating from Syria and Iraq to South-East Asia? What response does the international community give, and how can Indonesia be further encouraged and supported in providing protection to the entire population?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr Van der Staaij is right that Indonesia is also faced with returners who participated in the terrorist struggle of ISIS. In addition, there is Islamic terrorism of home soil in Indonesia. When it comes to combating terrorism, we work closely with Indonesia. We try to inform each other well and also to support each other. That is one of the reasons why I would like to take a closer look at the police support programme, because this aspect also applies. On balance, developments in Indonesia are worrying. In response to those terrible attacks in Surabaya, the Indonesian government indicated that there were serious concerns. From the Dutch side there is the full willingness to cooperate intensively with Indonesia to tackle the major problem of Islamic extremism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u15	I was a little triggered by Mr Helvert's question because he...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u16	Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u17	Van Helvert; excuse me. He pointed out that he would withdraw the subsidy if the situation did not improve. But one can well imagine that the government in Indonesia is not at all eager to improve the human rights situation, the tolerance between religious groups and the position of lhbti'ers. So my question is the other way around. If the situation in Indonesia is indeed deteriorating, is the Dutch government prepared to invest more in such projects, to ensure that sufficient counter-power is provided by civil society organisations, among others?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u18	The Dutch government is willing to do what is effective and what can reasonably be expected of the Netherlands. Unfortunately, the Netherlands cannot solve all the problems around the world, but we have an intensive and, of course, historical relationship with Indonesia. In my reply to Mr Van Helvert, too, Mrs Buitenweg has heard from my side that I cannot make a one-dimensional link between receiving subsidies and suddenly changing the situation, because you are doing such programmes in countries where you find there are problems. At the same time, I have also indicated to Mr Van Helvert that I want to see results in the end. I can't expect any government to never go wrong in a country, but I can expect that government to see results over a somewhat longer period of time if we stick together to improve the situation and use Dutch taxpayers' money. Otherwise you must be able to say: then we must stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you.
