ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now turn to Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66 for his question to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, whom I also welcome, about the report on the detection of assistance fraud based on algorithms. Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Algorithms are an increasingly important part of our lives. We're gonna be measured all day. Facebook determines what we see of news, and Google Maps determines our route to work. The government is also using algorithms more and more often. This can also be very positive, to better control traffic flows and to estimate where more houses will be needed in the future. D66 sees those odds, too. But the use of algorithms also has risks. Intransparent algorithms may also disproportionately harm certain groups, especially if the information used is coloured or incorrect. We read in the NRC that a number of Dutch municipalities use algorithms to detect assistance fraud. Of course, it is always good to detect fraud, but the use of these algorithms also presents a risk here. That's why I have a few questions for the Secretary of State. Do residents of the municipalities where the algorithms are used get insight into how the algorithms work and exactly what data is used? Can they also see these data on request, and change them if they turn out to be incorrect? Are the municipal councils of these municipalities aware of the application of the dates? Do they have sufficient insight into how algorithms are used? Is that algorithm and that application also submitted to and approved by the city council? Are there national rules for that? Finally, I think that the human dimension is always very important when we talk about assistance. Is this human measure sufficiently guaranteed? According to the new European privacy law, there must always be a human assessment and one must be able to hold a person accountable if a decision has major consequences. So we don't want a computer to issue a sanction based on an algorithm. We really need an intermediate step in the form of a human intervention. I ask the Secretary of State: is that sufficiently secure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks also to Mr Raemakers for his questions. I share his view that it is a good thing to detect fraud, as he points out. In fact, it is extremely important to detect fraud, because fraud undermines the basis of our social security, our solidarity. In fact, these municipalities are doing what they need to do: to detect fraud more effectively and efficiently. I also think it is important to give space to that. I'm a supporter of data-driven enforcement. I sent a letter to the Chamber yesterday about the enforcement course. You will also see examples of this, of course, I say to Mr Raemakers, in compliance with the legal rules and guarantees. As far as I can see, municipalities use the data they already have in their records. So people know that too, because they have often provided that data themselves. It is data that municipalities need to establish the right to benefit. There must be no automatic decision-making. Data can be retrieved, but there's always a person in there. The article showed that this is actually the case. The city council indeed oversees the way in which the college implements the policy. So the city council can also ask what the fraud monitoring policy looks like. That is what I would like to say in reply to Mr Raemakers' questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u5	I thank the Secretary of State. For D66 it is also very important that these algorithms are fair and verifiable and not lead to a vicious circle for vulnerable people. The Secretary of State just said that the data was provided by the people themselves. That is true, of course, but it is the social domain. That means that all the data that people provide is very vulnerable. I also believe that we must prevent past prejudices from being used in the application now. For example, there are algorithms based on historical data, on what happened in the past. There is a risk that these prejudices from the past will reappear in that mathematical model. My question is how to prevent those prejudices from living in the past. I'll make it a little clearer. Imagine that there was more fraud in the past in a particular neighbourhood, with many migratory residents for example, and that we are now going to check it because we know that there is a greater risk of fraud there and that there appears to be 50% or 60% of fraud. Then we can all say that this is not good at all and that we need to intervene, but it can of course also be the case that the percentage in the other neighbourhoods, where we do not control on the basis of historical data, is just as high. How do we prevent the model from discriminated against in itself? Finally, the municipal councils are familiar with this, as are the colleges of B and W, but which companies take care of this technology? And are these algorithms professional secrecy or are they public and transparent?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u6	It is an instrument that is added to the instruments that municipalities already have. I would like to say this, because there are, of course, many more possibilities to combat fraud. This instrument shall be added. I think this means that the municipalities do the right things and that they also have to take into account that they do things right. This also indicates that municipalities make this a serious matter, but this is added. This means that other neighbourhoods and other places will also have to be monitored. Whatever's going on with the algorithms, I'm gonna have to hold you as a typical alpha. I can find out for you. I am assuming that this is the way I have read the article, and that everything is done in full transparency. I also think this is important, because we all have the facilities and because transparency is particularly important to know that our taxpayers' money is being spent in the right way. That is why I am in favour of detecting fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u7	Like the Secretary of State, I'm also a huge alpha. So I won't talk too much about those algorithms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u8	That creates a bond!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u9	Yes, but I would like the Secretary of State's promise that she will come up with a particular regulation that will allow municipalities to decide democratically on these algorithms, so that this is not something that we put down with companies and that the city council as the highest body of the municipality has nothing to say about. I would therefore like to be promised that this will be properly monitored.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u10	We even have European directives which will soon come into force in the Netherlands. These are the framework within which supervision must take place. In doing so, the city council must ensure that the college carries out the right policy. These are the frameworks within which we have to work and I do not intend to add any additional regulation to that. I do think it is important to work within these rules too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u12	To get it sharp: tackling fraud is of course okay, but we should not treat everyone receiving benefit as a potential fraudster. In addition, it is really important that these algorithms are public and can also be checked by third parties, because of course there are organisations that know a lot about this. That is why I would like the Secretary of State's firm commitment to make these algorithms public and to ensure that they are not only transparent about the process, but that these algorithms are also made public, so that third parties can check them. If that remains to be figured out, I'll ask the Secretary of State to come back to the Chamber to indicate how she's going to ensure this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u13	I would also like to turn it around: the moment you come up from a signal database and when, as I have just said to Mr Raemakers, a person checks with you whether you are entitled to a benefit, that is also an opportunity to show that this is true. I also believe that this is important in terms of support and solidarity, because anyone who is entitled to benefit should not be ashamed of it. That's what I want to say. These algorithms are about the method that municipalities use. They must therefore comply with European directives and national policies, but also with what the city council has as its controlling role. They have to go in there. It's also up to the city council to check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you.
