ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the reopening of the debate on the proposed participation of the Netherlands in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security to the First Chamber. I would remind the Chamber that on 3 April 2018 the First Chamber debated with the Minister of Justice and Security the intended participation of the Netherlands in the European Public Prosecutor's Office (EOM). Three motions were tabled during the debate. In the plenary session of 10 April last, Mrs Duthler indicated that she wanted to amend her motion 33709 under the letter AH and that she wished to table a new motion. To this end, we are reopening the debate today for a short third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Two weeks ago, we had the debate on the participation of the Netherlands in a European Public Prosecutor's Office. At that time, we discussed in detail the mandate of the current European Public Prosecutor's Office and its possible extension. Now that the objective and therefore the mandate of the EPPO is limited, namely to combat fraud with EU funds, my group can agree to the participation of the Netherlands in a European Public Prosecutor's Office. However, it has not been said that this also applies in advance to the possible extension of the mandate. Since my group is primarily concerned with consulting this Chamber on any intention to extend the mandate and at that time may decide to hold a debate on it with the Minister, I would like to table the next amended motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u4	Cheers!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u5	I thought the alarm went off, but it didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u6	The Duthler c.s. motion. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Cabinet intends to announce to the Council and the European Commission that the Netherlands will participate in a European Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[Whereas this does not automatically open the door to further extension of the powers of a European Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[Whereas the European Council, acting unanimously, should take a decision on the possible extension of the mandate of the EPPO following the assent of the European Parliament and consultation of the Commission;]] [[whereas this requires the express agreement of the Netherlands;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber of the results of the evaluation foreseen for 2025, and to consult the Chamber at any time in the future with regard to any extension of the mandate of the EPPO and prior to its decision in the European Council,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33709-AI]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The debate was necessary two weeks ago because in December 2016 the government had pledged to this Chamber to involve the final judgment of both Chambers in the final position on whether or not the Netherlands should participate in the EOM. That final judgment has yet to be formally established. In order to establish that final judgment, I would like to table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Duthler proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the proposal of 17 July 2013 for a regulation establishing a European Public Prosecutor's Office to combat fraud involving EU funds;]] [[whereas on 17 October 2013, the Court of Justice lodged a subsidiarity objection against the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[Whereas 17 Member States decided in 2017 to establish a procedure for enhanced cooperation for the establishment of an EPPO to be operational by 2020;]] [[Considering that the Netherlands has not yet taken a decision to participate in the EPPO, because during a debate on 6 December 2016 the Government undertook to involve the Chamber in its final position on whether or not to participate in a European Public Prosecutor's Office by the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the benefits of participating in a European Public Prosecutor's Office outweigh the disadvantages and whereas the Court considers that it is in the interest of the Netherlands to participate in a European Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[agrees with the Government's intention to decide to participate in the EPPO,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33709-AJ]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u8	That the Chamber agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u9	It doesn't say that right now. The Court's agreement... The Chamber agrees. That phrase isn't quite beautiful, but okay. This linguistic slip will be adjusted, Mrs. Duthler. Thank you. I would now like to ask the question: does one of the other Members still wish to speak in third term? I would ask Mr Van Hattem: do you wish to interrupt or do you wish to speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u10	I would like to interrupt, because if I am going to speak, I cannot have a direct discussion with Mrs Duthler. The amended motion tabled by Mrs Duthler of the VVD states "to consult." What does "consultation" mean in concrete terms? That could mean sending a note to the Chamber saying "we're gonna do it like this and that's it." Or do you have the idea that there should be explicit agreement by the States-General? What does "consultation" mean in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u11	That at the time when there is a possible extension of the mandate, the Minister informs this Chamber and allows this Chamber, if the Chamber so wishes, to discuss it with the Minister. At that point, this Chamber can see whether it really believes that there should be a debate or not, or whether it thinks that there might even need to be a ruling on whether or not the mandate should be extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u12	So in advance it is clear that no explicit consent is expected, so that if the cabinet so wishes, they can simply continue if they have sent a letter, unless further action is taken. But it is actually butter soft what the VVD is now saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u13	No, because at the time of enlargement I am going to repeat it is up to the Chamber to decide what it wants to do with that possible proposal. The Chamber will then have the opportunity to discuss this matter further and, if necessary, to take a position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u14	Mr. Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u15	My second point, on the new motion. In this, the VVD says that a subsidiarity objection has been raised, but that it is now going to agree with the EOM. After agreement with the EOM, there is no going back, because we cannot get out as you know. Why, according to the VVD, has the previously expressed subsidiarity objection suddenly been withdrawn? Then why do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u16	Two weeks ago, we had a wide-ranging exchange of views with the Minister on the previously expressed objection to subsidiarity. The EOM is a fact. We can agree with that or not, like it or not, but it's there. The VVD Group believes that it would be better to go along with this enhanced cooperation, so that you should participate in the EOM rather than stand on the sidelines, and work together. Once it's there, you better get in on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u17	All the way to the end, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u18	That does not mean anything about the principles of subsidiarity. Then I have one more question. How does your motion to vote now relate to the position of the House of Representatives? You are now saying that we as the First Chamber should explicitly agree with the EOM, but apparently we do not have to do so in the Lower House. How do you see that under state law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u19	In the debate on 6 December 2016, we explicitly asked the government to wait for the position of this Chamber before making a commitment to participate in the EPPO. With the debate two weeks ago and the finalisation of it now with both motions, that debate will be concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u20	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u21	I told you "all in the end," Mr. Van Hattem. Are there any other Members who wish to intervene or wish to speak independently on this point? Mr. Van Dijk, an interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u22	It's an interruption. You're so challenging that I don't want to pass up that opportunity. Let me ask you a question about the amended motion. The VVD is ideally the party that is always very critical of submitting unnecessary motions. It also struck me that the group chairman of the VVD is not underneath it, so perhaps that is significant or may offer a surprise. Apart from that, what reason do you have to think that the Minister is not going to comply with this request, a very simple request for information, which is entirely part of the normal practices between government and Chamber? Isn't this motion completely superfluous?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u23	We are now putting the ball to the government, so we now expect the government to take the initiative to inform this Chamber. Otherwise, we should have kept a close eye on all the agendas of the JHA Council and paid close attention to whether this issue, extending the mandate, would not happen to be on the agenda. We are now putting the initiative before the Minister instead of having to pay very close attention to ourselves. We usually do that, of course, but sometimes something can slip through. We want to avoid that in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u24	I look forward to the Minister's response to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u25	Once again, thank you, Mrs Duthler. Mrs Wezel, you want to speak? An explanation of vote? I will first give the Minister the opportunity to respond, because we have a third-term debate. The Minister may then also speak in the third term. I call the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u26	Madam President. It is a special privilege, with a small break last Tuesday, to have a discussion with your Chamber today about the European Public Prosecutor's Office. In fact, I think it is very special that I should first of all be allowed to respond to a motion which represents artificial intelligence in terms of abbreviation. I must say, however, that it is a good practice, first and foremost, for years now, to inform both chambers of the States General in good time about meetings at EU level in which members of the cabinet participate. I want to have said that again loud and clear. This certainly applies to Council meetings on JHA matters. During the debate two weeks ago, I also indicated that I believe that this is certainly the case with the issue surrounding the mandate of the EPPO. That is even separate from the extra insurance that my predecessor gave on that point in 2016. So you can assume that I will keep up with the calendar very well, whether I am going to talk about the EPPO on JHA-Raden, and that I will make sure that both Chambers get to know it in good time, so that we can have a good debate on this with each other. You may conclude from the foregoing that I consider the motion to be superfluous, but I leave it to your Chamber to decide. The second motion, with letters AJ. I note that the motion is initiated by the words 'accepts' or if you wish to 'accept'. You may want to forgive me if I want to make a small preliminary remark here and note that your Chamber has no right of assent in this matter. Strictly speaking, the term "welcomes" or "supports" would probably fit better with the legal context. However, I would like to make it quite clear that, of course, your Chamber itself determines the text of motions and that, even if you think that any other use of the word merely expresses more support and enthusiasm, I will leave it entirely to your Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-6.u27	Thank you.
