ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on Bill 34842, the Restoration and Settlement of Insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-8.u2	I call Mrs Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today I am speaking on behalf of the political groups of, in alphabetical order, the Christian Union, PvdA, SP and VVD. On the table is the proposal for a law relating to the situation that an insurer is in such a situation that De Nederlandsche Bank withdraws the licence. We hope, of course, that this situation will not arise, but at the same time we must prepare ourselves well if that is the case. That's what this bill is about. Ten years ago it became clear that the unimaginable could happen in the banking sector, despite the regulation and supervision of banks. Our deposit guarantee scheme was also found not to comply with some internationally acceptable good practices. The guaranteed amount per customer per bank was too low, and there was no fund to pay out the guarantees. The first meant that account holders were insufficiently protected, and that there was a chance of a bank run in the event of rumors. The second implied that the costs would have to be passed on to the remaining banks, at a time when the economy and the banking sector would not have been very good anyway. These shortcomings had already been warned for several years before the crisis, but this did not lead to changes at the time. Possibly the risk of problems was considered to be negligible, a fund too expensive, or both. The rest is history. In October 2008, the guaranteed amount for operating bank account holders was increased from €20,000 to €100,000 per person per bank, and the cover of costs was subsequently replaced by ex ante financing, which is also risk-related. Moreover, there is still more to improve. One of the key recommendations of the IMF in its regular analysis of financial stability in the Netherlands published in 2017 is to ensure that bank account holders have their money at their disposal. In concrete terms, the IMF recommends that the maximum time limit for the payment of the amounts should be reduced from twenty to seven days; I understand that this is being worked on in the footnote to the passage in question. Those were the banks, now they're going to the insurance companies and their customers. The present law is intended, in the situation that De Nederlandsche Bank withdraws an insurer's licence, to quote from the explanatory memorandum, to "protect the interests of policy holders as much as possible." Moreover, the uncontrolled settlement of an insurer could, according to the advice of the Council of State, influence confidence in insurers, lead to social unrest and contamination within an insurance group. The explanation does not refer to contamination to other parts of the financial system. I'll get back to you on that. Over the past five years, several insurers in our country have been in trouble. Vivat, the former SNS REAAL, was about to fall in 2015, and was taken over by the Chinese Anbang bank at the last minute for one euro. The fact that the policy holders did not check in 2015 was because Anbang put more than one billion in the almost fallen insurance company. The aim of then Anbang top man Wu, who is now in prison in China for fraud, was to get a foothold in Western Europe. What would have happened if Anbang Vivat hadn't come to the rescue? The letters to hundreds of thousands of pension and other customers were already ready: we are bankrupt. Last year, the Baarn life insurance company Conservatrix was taken over by an American company after justified pressure from DNB, also for the summation of one euro. A third Dutch insurer, Delta Lloyd, threatened to enter the danger zone two years ago, but was fortunately taken over by NN on time, hostile and for a lot more than one euro. All of this is, perhaps because there was a close solution, less on our retina than Vie d'Or, a small life insurance company specializing in commodity policies. It actually went bankrupt in 1995, and it was only a year ago that this case was closed. Over 22 years of uncertainty, litigation and waiting for the 12,000 outlawed policy holders. They have been greatly affected, even though DNB, and therefore the taxpayer, has taken charge of the costs of the proceedings, and even though the other insurers have volunteered to do so. The groups of D66, Christian Union, PvdA, SP and VVD see some improvements in this bill compared to the current regulations. DNB can intervene faster and has more powers, and policy holders no longer have to wait so long and be in such great uncertainty. We also justify the abolition of the reception scheme, which is not sufficient to cover larger insurers. The Minister writes in the explanatory memorandum to the bill that it appeared during the credit crisis that, I quote, 'just the biggest insurers are hit first by such a crisis'. That is an interesting observation in itself, which suggests that regulators and legislators did not have that on the retina beforehand. Furthermore, that remark seems to suggest something about the future, but as we know, history does not repeat itself, but rhymes with it. Maybe another crisis has quite different characteristics. I said that we see improvements, but I would not stand here if the groups of D66, ChristenUnion, PvdA, SP and VVD did not also have concerns about the protection of policy holders resulting from this bill, and consequently also about achieving the other objectives of the bill, namely protecting confidence in insurers, and preventing social unrest and contamination and therefore financial instability. We wonder whether this law does what it promises and whether the proposed law is credible and enforceable, and also how the proposed protection of policy holders relates to that of depositors. The draft law provides that, if an insurer is settled, the benefits already in progress, pension in the second or third pillar, shall remain unchanged for a period of three months. At that time, the curator, and where I say "curatrix," must determine what the benefit is to which he thinks the policy holder will ultimately be entitled, but on which no final decision has yet been taken. A further advantage of these three months is, according to the explanatory memorandum, that the recipient of the benefit, I quote, 'does not face a lower benefit overnight and is allowed to adjust its pattern of expenditure during this period'. This concerns pensioners (ex-workers andzzp'ers) who receive a second and/or third pillar pension, as well as those with disability benefits. They are thus told that as the weather goes, they have to adjust their expenditure downwards because there is a permanent reduction in the benefit. Apart from the main objective of the law, the protection of individuals, I ask the Minister whether he really thinks that this, especially in the case of large numbers, will not lead to social unrest and loss of confidence. After three months, the curator has determined the amount to which he expects the retired or disabled person ultimately to be entitled. What has so far been overpaid in the first three months is deducted. Let me give you a hypothetical example. Suppose, for the first three months I receive my full pension from, say, €1,000 per month and have to adjust my spending pattern downwards at that time. After that I am told that I will be entitled, for example, to €900 per month, but that will be a bit less because I have to repay the three times €100 that I have received too much over the past few months. I ask the Minister if I have understood this so well and if so, how many months will it be paid back? Is the full amount immediately deducted, is it smeared and if so about how long? Does that depend on the age of the policy holder/income recipient? I also ask the Minister how, from the point of view of customer protection, he looks at the lack of a guarantee for policy holders when settling an insurer in proportion to the maximum €100,000 for which bank account holders are insured. I would like to point out that, unlike pension funds, pensioners in an insurer have explicitly either a guaranteed benefit scheme or a guaranteed premium scheme. Eventually, but that may take years, the curator determines the final benefit. If it is lower than the interim benefit, the benefit determined after three months on the basis of an estimate, then too much has been paid to the policy holder. Fortunately, this is not his responsibility, but has to be paid ex post by the other insurers, just as they have to pay for a number of other ex post costs. Fortunately, I have never had to deal with a curator before, but I would think that with the interim benefit, he would rather be on the low side than on the high side, not to have to come up with the message later that too much has been paid. I wonder how the Minister sees that. And also whether he expects pensioners and disabled persons to go to trial, individually or collectively. I am also curious to hear the Minister's answer as to whether he thinks it is fair that the insurer who caused the misery does not contribute to the costs. Ex ante funding would be the case. And I ask the Minister how the above relates to one of the key conditions that the resolution regime must fulfil according to the explanatory statement, namely "be credible in order to strengthen market discipline and provide incentives for market solutions." So far, I have only spoken about pensioners and people with disability insurance. In addition, many policy holders in the life business are still in an earlier phase: they do not yet receive benefits, but have saved and/or saved for a pension income or a one-off benefit in the future. This includes employees who are obliged to do so through the employer, further third pillar savers, and people who have built up capital, for example to pay off their mortgage in the near or future. Although these policy holders may not immediately experience an income problem, this bill provides for less pension or lower lump sum in the near or future. Here again, I ask the Minister whether he thinks that this will have no impact on confidence in the system and whether it will not cause social unrest. I'm also asking him if he's checked to see if this could lead to contamination. To other insurers, via the channel of trust: people no longer trust it and buy off their policy, or there will be no new contracts. To banks, for example, because people cannot repay their mortgage loans at the bank. I have tried to find out how many policy holders the latter are, but also the Association of Insurance Companies does not have these figures available. Do we actually have an idea of this possible risk of contagion, I ask the Minister? Another question concerns the continuation of pension-building. I asked the Minister in the written round whether employees who built up pensions with the settled insurer could automatically go elsewhere to continue saving their pensions under the same conditions. His answer was no, and I invite him to outline how this relates to the best possible protection. Mr. Chairman. I started with the banks and the previous shortcomings of the deposit guarantee scheme: no fund, the failing bank does not pay, a low guarantee. That makes it unbelievable that the authorities would drop a large bank, and that turned out to be the case. Fortunately, the necessary adjustments have been made for banks after the crisis. Now, when I look at this bill, with all the advantages it has in relation to what we have now, I wonder whether we are not making the same mistake as at the time, and whether there is a good chance that this will lead to the insurer still being saved under political and social pressure, and to avoid worse, with tax money, and that perhaps then the scheme, as was the case with the banks, will be changed. If the calf drowned, when we could do it now. The political groups of D66, ChristenUnion, PvdA, SP and VVD therefore ask the Minister why a fund with 100% guarantee for policy holders in case of bankruptcy or resolution has not been chosen. If that is because of the costs, we are looking forward to a quantitative basis. As far as I know, but I would like to hear from the Minister whether I have understood correctly, there are countries, including the United Kingdom, which do have such a system. Mr. Chairman. We ask the Minister to give an undertaking that he will have a short-term study of the costs of a Dutch insurance policy guarantee scheme for insurers in the event of settlement. I am referring in particular to the life business and that he will inform us about its results, including the assumptions made. We can imagine that different levels of guarantee will be examined. We also ask the Minister to investigate the risks of contamination in the event that policy holders are not 100% protected in the event of resolution. These requested investigations can also provide valuable input to EIOPA, if they are on time, which has announced that it will investigate the need for a European network of national insurance schemes for insurers with adequate funding and sufficient harmonisation. The D66 Group and those of the Christian Union, PvdA, SP and VVD look forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Prast. There are no other spokesmen at the moment. Does anyone still need to speak in the first term? That is not the case. The Minister has the opportunity to reply directly. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to respond as much as possible in the first term and to answer the various questions put by Mrs Prast on behalf of various groups. But I'm starting by saying it's a pleasure to be here again after last week. I don't have more than a zero-hour contract, so that I could come by again, I consider as a privilege. I thank Mrs Prast for the questions she has asked. I thought I could see that she saw the proposal as an improvement on the current system, because that is, of course, what we have been talking about. I will, as far as possible, pass through the various questions that she has asked and come to the end of what I think is her most important question, namely the commitment, which also relates to what is going on in EIOPA. I'll make a few introductory remarks. Mrs Prast and I fully agree that the failure of an insurer can, of course, cause major problems for policy holders. We are all in complete agreement on that. This can then lead to great social unrest and all kinds of consequences in the real economy. What we are trying to do is to intervene in a timely and effective manner in the event of a crisis, and that is absolutely not to ensure that we reduce the damage to the overall economy, but also to ensure the best possible protection of the interests of policy holders. That's what we're here for. Once again, and I thought that also to be recognized by Mrs Prast, the bill as it stands now is really an improvement on the situation as we have it now. Mrs Prast asked whether bankruptcy could lead to loss of confidence and social unrest. That is, of course, a very legitimate question in itself. She also asked whether there could be a risk of infection. You never know for sure. Nor can you, I think, give any guarantee that this social unrest will not arise, especially when there is a wider crisis and banks, for example, are in trouble again. So with this bill in my hand, too, I can't rule that out. The bill is designed to navigate as effectively as possible in such a next crisis. That, I think, helps, by limiting predictability and clarity about the steps, the loss of confidence and the social unrest. Mrs Prast will recognize this: it is not so much the bad news that causes a crisis of confidence, and on the banking side for something like a bank run, but, above all, the uncertainty about what will happen next. Mrs Prast also asked me whether I think it is fair that the insurer who caused the misery does not contribute to the costs. On the one hand, I understand what she's asking. On the other hand, of course, we have deliberately opted for a system that requires funding from the sector for a limited number of purposes. This is the case, for example, where the curator has paid too much from the estate as an advance and this could not be recovered. That is an example that Mrs Prast referred to. In doing so, we have set the targets as limited as possible, so as not to confront the other insurers with potentially very high costs in the event of bankruptcy. The sector has also expressed its preference for ex post rather than ex ante financing in full terms. It's true that you can opt for those two models. The disadvantage of an ex-ante situation is that you have all insurance companies paid in advance. You may have created a pot of money, but by definition you have the bill, if it has to be paid, also deposited with the others. So it's the question of fairness, but you could say that it's also the question of: how do you make sure absolute costs are limited? Mrs Prast also asked about the situation in the United Kingdom. It is indeed different from that in continental Europe. There there is the guarantee under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme for insurance. In 2015, coverage was increased from 90% to 100%. I will say a few words about the 100% and the comparison made by Mrs Prast with the €100,000 on the banks side, because that is not, of course, the same as a 100% guarantee. It is true that the system offers far-reaching coverage in the United Kingdom, but it also, as discussed, has disadvantages. Mrs Prast further asked about the interesting situation in which the curator or curatrix is sitting too low with a provisional benefit. I understand her question in such a way that the curator's inspiration might be better safe than sorry: I start too low and then I might be able to come out even higher. The advantage to me is that the curator has three months to make the best possible assessment. I am sure he will not always do that quite right, but I do not think you should find that the curator is going to hang on the lower side of the table, even if not because the judge-in-chief is just looking after it. So there's also a lock on the door. Mrs Prast asked in the same category of the curatrix what should happen if the opposite happens in those first three months. Is money being deducted, or is it being smeared? The answer to that is that it is spread over time. Next, Mrs Prast asked me to do it almost in the order in which she asked the questions. What is the situation with a bankrupt insurer, where you would really like the insured persons to pass on under the same conditions and at the same time find that that is not possible. How does that relate to the best possible protection? That is a very fair question, because what will you see in such a situation? You will see that someone has taken out insurance, which has become older and will now have to pay closure costs for a new insurer. It's not that easy to go completely clean. What we are explicitly trying to do with this bill is to mitigate that situation in two ways. The first is, of course, that we are doing everything we can to ensure that such an insurer does not go against the law. With all these settlement options, you prevent an insurer from actually going bankrupt and having to close down. Secondly, you are in a situation in which the unexpected goes wrong. The bill regulates that the damage suffered by policy holders is more likely to be compensated and that you are given a very high privilege in the priority. Does that rule out in all cases that you suffer damage as a policy holder? No, of course not. But I think it's a double lock on the door to make sure you don't get ripped off, because you've aged ten or twenty years and are still dealing with a closing commission. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Prast asked about the distinction with the banks. As I said earlier, it is important to stress that the banks have indeed rightly raised to €100,000. That's good for a lot of people with an account, but it's not good for all of them either. So it's not a 100% guarantee. The second is: we must be aware of the fundamental difference between banks and insurers. At the banks you want to cover up against the flame in the pan and a bank run. The advantage the insurance sector has over the banking sector is that you have time. So you have time to settle and you don't have the phenomenon of a bank run. That also means that I can imagine the equation on the one hand, but that extra-large buffer, which was raised during the credit crisis, is there on the other hand precisely to maximize confidence and ensure that people do not go to that bank run. So, in a sense, it's more an extra guarantee than anything else, and the sector is just different in that. That brings me to the commitment that Mrs Prast is looking for. It might be a good thing to say something about the situation that is now in Europe and also with EIOPA. EIOPA is investigating the desirability of guarantee schemes and has now concluded its investigation phase. It is expected to be published in the first half of next year. I think it will be complicated to carry out another study as the Netherlands itself and to use it as an input towards EIOPA to show what we have done ourselves. However, what I can imagine is that I share the conclusions of EIOPA with the First Chamber and, of course, with Mrs Prast in particular, taking account of the guarantee scheme, but also of the risk of contagion, i.e. the second part of Mrs Prast's concerns. In doing so, we will examine whether the EIOPA study has adequately covered those two components. I can also imagine giving an appreciation of that. If my impression is that this has not been done enough, we will have to investigate the risks of contamination ourselves, for example. An alternative is that if my appreciation is that that is enough and Mrs Prast does not agree, it is up to her to seduce me again. But I suspect we're really pulling on the same side of the rope when it comes to the guarantee scheme and the contagion risks. I would like to agree with her in such a way that I promise her that I will share the EIOPA report with her, that I will add an appreciation and that I will also conclude, to what extent that leads to research questions and follow-up steps on the part of the cabinet. Of course, if that is useful and desirable, we will have another debate on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-8.u6	In order not to waste too much time in the second term, I would like to ask the following question. This study by EIOPA is an examination of the need for a European network of national insurance guarantee schemes, with funding and sufficient harmonisation. It is therefore an examination of the need for a European network. In my perception, that is really something other than investigating the situation in the Netherlands with the number of policy holders who, I say what, would have wanted to pay off their mortgage with the insurance company's capital, but may not have enough if an insurer were to settle. The fact that I said that this could possibly be used as input for EIOPA was actually to indicate that you should actually do that kind of research. So we're not asking too much from the Minister. I now hear that this investigation will not be on time, because EIOPA is already in full swing. It is also not the case that EIOPA wants to investigate the same thing as I asked for on behalf of five political groups. The fact that the Minister shares that investigation of EIOPA with me is a good thing, but I will find out myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-8.u7	I am going to make the commitment to Mrs Prast even more gold-diggering. The purely Dutch piece, why it is her, about what you should want to know in the Netherlands, will indeed not come specifically from that EIOPA research. What, of course, comes from the EIOPA study is precisely what steps you might want to take at European level. I think that Mrs Prast agrees with me that many of these schemes are ideally suited to a European solution. I see her gloating in an increasingly European insurance market. We share that logic. Here's what I'm suggesting. I will wait for additional research to be extended until I have had EIOPA, otherwise there could be other open parts in the questions we would like to have answered with each other. That investigation will in any case ask about those matters which Mrs Prast specifically considers important for the Dutch situation. Then we can ask that out in one go. That sounds charming to me to use that word. If Mrs Prast can live with that, I say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-8.u8	Mrs. Prast. You're looking at me. What do you want from me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-8.u9	I thought the minister was ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-8.u10	I've written pretty well. I think I've answered most of the questions by far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-8.u11	The minister thinks he's answered most of the questions by far. Maybe he's got some left over, but we'll find out. Mrs. Prast. Maybe you thought the minister was ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-8.u12	I thought so, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-8.u13	Why don't you sit down, because we're gonna do it by the book now? Minister, you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-8.u14	Mr. Chairman. With your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-8.u15	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of office. I call Mrs Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the very structured answer to the questions I have asked on behalf of the other groups. I'm gonna finish the list. The first argument for not introducing ex ante financing is that the sector does not want it to. Yeah, it makes sense that the sector doesn't want that. It was one of the reasons for not making the deposit guarantee scheme ex ante at the time, despite advice to that effect. In my view, that is not the right argument. All in on it? On the contrary, you would like all to pay along and not the one who has fallen over, perhaps because he took the most risk, to do so. All to pay, including those who say that they really don't fall over? Well, that's the idea with a guarantee. People who don't burn down the house also paid for insurance. Then there is the three-month term of the curatrix, as the Minister very kindly said. I think three months is very short to make a very precise estimate. That is why an interim assessment has been chosen. The minister actually says that we do not know whether the curator is going to sit on the low side or on the high side. Either way, there are disadvantages on both sides, but there is nothing we can do about it. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer to the question as to whether the amount of benefit that he has received over the first three months is being spread over time. That's what's happening. That's very nice. I am thinking: if an x amount has to be recovered from people of 99 or 70 years of age, then you have very little time to spread it in terms of expectation. Do these people pay less, or do they have to pay a higher amount, depending on life expectancy? I see the Minister thinking: I haven't thought about that. Then the transition to retirement. I keep worrying about that, but I understand that this would be very difficult to guarantee. An insurer can't, like a bank, against the plain through a bank run. That is true in itself, though we know that an insurer can be affected by what is called a "fast walk." Imagine if an insurer goes bankrupt and I've built up capital elsewhere with another insurer. I see now that those who are unlucky enough to have built up their capital with insurer x, the fallen insurer, do not have the guarantee that they will get back the amount they have built up. I can imagine making a calculation and thinking: then I'll buy off my policy. Then I'll take care of the costs. But there is another, a more fundamental argument. If there were rumors about a healthy bank falling over, because people are afraid and are therefore going to run, that would of course be very undesirable. That couldn't happen to an insurer. But if there are reports that an insurer is in a very bad situation, then the pension savers, those who receive pensions and those who have capital with the insurer are caught. They're stuck and there's nothing they can do. You can frame that as an advantage, but you can also frame it as a disadvantage. There is certainly no market discipline. There is no 100% guarantee for banks either. Now, of course, there are several differences between banks and insurers, but I'm looking from the perspective of the policy holder, the customer. People with more than €100,000 know this and can spread their money across multiple banks. They'll be insured everywhere. But we can't expect employees andzzp'ers to spread their pension savings across different insurers, can we? In this sense, insurers have less or less power to discipline themselves and to increase their guarantee. That is a response to the Minister's answers. I can assure the Minister that we see improvements in the current legislative proposal. Hopefully that'll be a comfort. With the gold-plated commitment, I am pleased at the moment. I hope I can say that on behalf of the other groups. This means that, when EIOPA is closed, we will receive the information I asked for in my first term. I wonder if that'll be soon. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-8.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Prast. I ask the Minister if he has the opportunity to answer directly. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-8.u18	Mr President, thank you. I have the opportunity to answer quickly just because Mrs Prast has asked zero questions, if I have counted it correctly. She has qualified some of my comments, if I may put it that way. My summary of my commitment was entirely the right one. To be honest, there was another thing. I understand what she's saying about her preference for ex-ante. However, I would like to stress that my argument has been broader than the wish of the sector. But it shows, I think, exactly that this is terra incognita and that you don't know exactly how this is gonna work out after you enter it. I would also like to promise that the new system will be evaluated after three, four or five years. You have to see what you've learned from this situation. I was going to, but that's what I'd like to say to her. I think three years is a little quick and five years more reason. But at least a few years after the system was introduced, I want to evaluate the system, and I want to take this very point about ex post versus ex ante. I would like to point out once again that I do see the advantages that Mrs Prast sets out with regard to ex ante, albeit that this is a more costly construction. I will specifically take that point with me. If I can still say that in her direction, and that was not a question, then I think that is all well and good. Mr. Chairman. I thought I'd leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-8.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-eerstekamer-8.u20	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case. Then the bill is accepted. Anybody want a note? That is not the case either.
