ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome everyone and in particular the people in the public gallery. The issue is this: the merger of the municipalities of Aalburg, Werkendam and Woudrichem (Room 34825), the merger of the municipalities of Nuth, Underbanks and Schinnen (Room 34826), the merger of the municipalities of Haarlemmerliede and Spaarnwoude and Haarlemmermeer (Room 34827), the merger of the municipalities of Bedum, De Marne, Eemsmond and Winsum (Room 34828), the merger of the municipalities of Grootegast, Leek, Marum and Zuidhorn and a part of the territory of the municipality of Winsum (Room 34829), the merger of the municipalities of Giessenlanden and Molenwaard (Room 34830) and the merger of the municipalities of Dongeradeel, Ferweradiel and Kollumerland and Nieuwruisland (Room 34831), the merger of the municipalities of Noordwijk and Noordwijker (Room 34829), the merger of the municipalities of Noordwijk and Noordwijker (Room 34832). I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations in trade union K.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP Group as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u3	Twelve redeployments are in the pipeline this week. We're doing nine now. We go from Noord-Brabant to Limburg, to Noord-Holland, to Groningen, to Zuid-Holland, Friesland and Gelderland, throughout the country. That also shows that it's snap-snap, gone by hand, without plan and without vision. Now, of course, the Minister is going to say again that these new municipalities are really needed for a robust and modern governance with power for the future, or some kind of management talk. But you know what's weird, Mr. Chairman? In 2013 I also heard this in the reclassification of Graafstroom, Liesveld and Nieuw-Lekkerland in the new municipality of Molenwaard. Then there was a minister and he also said something about this Millwaard getting a robust and modern governance with governance power for the future. That was in 2013. That was five years ago! Seriously, we're not going to reorganise municipalities every five years, are we? I don't think they're even done yet. And how did it go in Molenwaard? The way it always goes. Molenwaard has come into the reach of the consultants who are busy there developing election apps that should never be used, and meanwhile the town hall has been abolished. I wonder what the Minister thinks of these kinds of priorities. When I talk to people, when I go near people and ask what is the biggest problem in their congregation, I never hear people say that the municipality should merge for a robust and modern governance with governance for the future, or something else nonsense. I never hear people say that. So I'm actually asking, why? Who asked for this? Did the residents in all those municipalities who read the president so bravely ask for this? I don't think so. At least they weren't asked for anything. I also think Spaarndam is an interesting issue. It is a beautiful double village: the beautiful Spaarndam-Oost with 2,500 inhabitants located in the municipality of Haarlemmerliede and Spaarnwoude, and the even more beautiful Spaarndam-West with 600 inhabitants. We are merging 10, 20, 30, 50 and sometimes more than 80 cores into municipalities, but Spaarndam is a small village located in two municipalities. Between these two municipalities lies a little water with a bridge over it. Then I think: well, if you're going to rethink, put that one village in one community. But that's not gonna happen. I don't understand the logic behind that. Last night, when we had debates on Haren and other municipalities, I asked the Minister what her view is on local government, on local democracy. How big must municipalities be and who determines that? What we see now is that there are constantly managers and consultants who write expensive advice. All that costs a lot of money. They all write that municipalities need to get bigger and bigger, that they need to get more and more tasks and get bigger and bigger. And to do all those tasks and to do all those reclassifications, you need to hire consultants again. Doesn't the Minister agree with me that the local government is the residents? Doesn't she agree with me that we should start with a master plan, a plan that shows how we deal with our local democracy? This does not mean that the minister or parliament should decide which municipalities are and how large they are, but that the population should decide. Let us first ask the people: what is your community? That could be a village, that could be a city, and that could be half a province for all I care. I don't care. I'm not going over it. Ask the people, what is your community? Ask them to define their community and tell them that the municipality is a political reflection of that community. Then we will see what tasks can be included. Because if a village of a few thousand inhabitants says "we form a community, but not with the village next door," then that's all right and that's fine, but that's their community, then that's their community and then they get less tasks too. 'Cause otherwise they can't and they're gonna have to visit all these consultants again. If they say 'no, we want to be part of a large government', or as the minister is about to say 'of a robust and modern administration with governance power for the future', then we are equally close friends, but then they are going to perform a lot of tasks. And then we'll make sure that big city has the good people and resources for that. Can the Minister respond seriously to this? Last night, she forgot all that stuff. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van den Bosch on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I am speaking on behalf of my colleague from the Christian Union because she had to be present at another meeting. It seems to me to be a nice combination: the liberals and the Christian Union. There's no harm in that. As you have already said, Mr President, this morning we have a series of 26 municipalities ahead of us. I am not going to list them all, because it takes too much time, but they all want to go into nine different municipalities with the support of their municipal councils. In my group's view, it is good to stress that in these reclassifications the process has been picked up and carried out satisfactorily. Good and thorough discussions have been held on the future municipalities. All municipal councils then agreed. Rearrangements that go less smoothly get the most attention, but often the process just goes well. That is a very good result. We in the Chamber have little to add to that in principle, but we still want to go into the substance of this debate in a single reclassification. And that is the reclassification that we still have a question about to the Minister: the reclassification of Haarlemmermeer, Haarlemmerliede and Spaarnwoude. We support this merger but would like to draw attention to the shared village Spaarndam. The SP was talking about that, too. We have noticed from the Court's consultation rounds that opinions on a shared Spaarndam or a choice for Haarlem or Haarlemmermeer differ. The VVD and the Christian Union would therefore like to ask the Minister to ask the Province to put this wish under a magnifying glass together with both municipalities and the inhabitants of Spaarndam after the reclassification, so that it can be shown what the basis is. Personally, I would like to pay attention to a single municipality. I can't name them all, but I know a few very personally and those are my personal new neighborhoods Altena and West Betuwe. On behalf of the College of B and W in Zaltbommel, as a good neighbor, I was allowed to present a positive view on both of their requests for merger. In the contacts I have, I have also personally experienced how these six municipalities have done their work in their own way and in their own way, together with their people and businesses, in recent years with a great deal of commitment, resulting in this. Mr President, I will conclude. The VVD and the Christian Union will be able to accept these proposals. We wish the future inhabitants and companies of Haarlemmermeer, Molenlanden, Altena, Beekdaelen, het Hogeland, Westerkwartier, Noardeast-Fryslân, Noordwijk and West Betuwe very much success in their new municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr President. I deliberately dropped it last night because there were plenty of other issues on the agenda, but the large series of reclassifications that we are dealing with as a Chamber this week raises the question of how long we will continue to scale up the municipalities in the Netherlands. Once again, dozens of municipalities will be reorganised as of 1 January. Shouldn't there even be a moment when we stop even further away from the citizen's administration, at least until we have found forms that ensure that administrative proximity to the local community is guaranteed? In this sense, I do feel for the vision that Mr Van Raak put forward last night. The Minister will undoubtedly indicate that there will be another framework in which this will come back, but often such a framework also has the character of: how can we further facilitate reclassifications? And that's when that's not really the question. How should the question be: how do you make the local government optimally serviceable to the local communities? That could be due to a reclassification. We note that many of the reclassifications that are now under discussion are coming completely from the bottom. We welcome that and we do not object to it at all. But it may also mean that we do not go for reclassification, because otherwise administrative units will become too large, and that other forms will have to be found. It was also tried with submunicipalities, but of course it didn't really work out, and so there were more of those things. It does, however, highlight the need for really well thought-out solutions to this whole administrative issue. There's a tension there. On the one hand, there is a certain scale that we need to be able to perform tasks. These are, contrary to what the SP calls for, happy tasks that are invested in the municipalities and to which municipalities work fully and forcefully. The administrative proximity to the communities is opposite. Perhaps the Minister could give a hint of the veil about what is going to be in future contexts and what direction she is thinking. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the reclassification of the municipalities of Giessenlanden and Molenwaard. In the case of reclassifications under the policy framework, the sustainability of a reclassification is also important in addition to support. That aspect calls for attention here. The municipality of Molenwaard was formed only five years ago; my colleague rightly pointed the finger at it. In the meantime, both the 2014 and 2018 elections have not taken place in this municipality. In this municipality, therefore, regular municipal elections have never taken place. Do we really understand that under "sustainable reclassification"? As far as we are concerned, this is not a scenario worthy of the beauty prize. Of course, the SGP also sees that this proposal was made at the request of the municipality of Giessenlanden and that it is a result of the termination of a partnership. And all the more so, since there is voluntaryness, we do not need to vote in favour of it either. However, in general terms, it is worth paying attention to the fact that municipalities do not have to reorganise so quickly. Mr. Chairman. Last night, I said something about Gorinchem's orphan position. This relatively small municipality remains in an area with much larger municipalities. At the same time, this municipality has that centre function in the region. The SGP wonders whether sufficient attention has been paid to this issue in the various proposals. How is it prevented that Gorinchem remains orphaned in the slightly longer term? Has Gorinchem's center function been maintained permanently? I heard the Minister very well last night; she said that attention would be paid to this. I believe that too, but the Minister will also realise that, of course, you can have administrative attention for such a centre municipality that is actually too small in view of the surrounding municipalities, but that there are also autonomous processes that affect the ability to fill in such a centre function. So maybe she can follow up on the consideration she offered last night. In concrete terms, in this reclassification process, attention has been paid to the position of Arkel. To what extent is it possible to see whether or not these cores are really best served with the new municipality of Molenwaard? Could classification at Gorinchem, given their orientation, possibly be more obvious? The government states that it cannot be concluded that there is sufficient public support for a transition from Arkel to Gorinchem. This raises the question of whether or not there would be sufficient support for it and when it could be established. Has that point really been considered seriously as a serious option in this process? The government states that the combination of a part of Giessenlanden has little added value for Molenwaard. But at the same time, Molenwaard is already an administrative municipality. Mr. Chairman. As far as Haarlemmerliede, Spaarnwoude and Haarlemmermeer are concerned, because of the time, I agree with the comments that have been made. I would like to await the Minister's answers on this point. We have the impression that it is best to follow the legislative proposal on this issue, but perhaps the Minister can confirm us a little more strongly. With regard to the reclassification of Aalburg, Werkendam and Woudrichem and all other reclassification proposals, we have not been able to discover any real problems. There are issues that call for attention in general, such as core policies and the provision of services to citizens. The citizen automatically gets to stand further away from the administration and the town hall by the reclassification. I would like to draw attention to this, because in order not to widen the gap, it must also be properly shaped. There are different forms conceivable. I do not have any preference for this, but I would like to know how the Minister guarantees that this will indeed be done administratively in the various forms that the new municipalities are going to choose. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Krol, on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Why choose administrative power instead of civilian power? Why apply a lower limit for the size of a municipality, but not an upper limit? Why is a municipal reclassification never actually a scale reduction? As far as we have been able to verify, this is never the case. The fraction of 50PLUS wants to keep the municipal government close to the people. We choose the human measure. That's not nostalgia or an emotional desire for past times. There are numerous rational considerations that are repeatedly confirmed by scientific research: great is not necessarily better. The current municipal reclassification policy framework is full of it. Policy can best be implemented close to the citizen. It also says that the government chooses to reclassify from below. It is primarily up to the municipalities themselves to work through reclassification towards greater administrative power. I quote: 'The basis for a reclassification is important, but this does not mean that unanimity among municipal authorities or residents is required for the cabinet to adopt a reclassification advice. The cabinet will assess the degree of acceptance according to the same standards as in the previous frameworks: local government, social and regional." Isn't it weird that the cabinet's gonna judge the basis of support? If you want to be close to the people and if you want to do it from the bottom up, it is better to let the inhabitants of each municipality express themselves in a well-organised referendum and that the majority decide by local authority? This came up extensively last night. The nine reclassifications now before us are all presented as voluntary in the explanatory memorandum. But is it? Our own research shows that in these mergers it is everywhere. I walk them all down, because we have questions about it. It was not a celebration for the municipalities of Aalburg, Werkendam and Woudrichem. Cees Veerman said it won't come naturally in 2015, in an interview with the uplifting title: Merge with the knife on the throat. The merger of Nuth, Underbanks and Schinnen was not a feast either. The core of Schinnen, with over 3,000 inhabitants, speaks of forced marriage and states that the citizens have been put out of play despite their countless attempts to be heard. Village core Spaarndam-Oost prefers to combine with Haarlem rather than with Haarlemmermeer, according to a house-to-house investigation. Why can't Spaarndam-Oost go together with Haarlem? I'd like to request a response from the Minister. The municipality of Bedum prefers not to merge, but wants to cooperate with the municipalities of De Marne, Eemsmond and Winsum. Is cooperation between these municipalities not more efficient, and perhaps even cheaper? The merger of Grootegast, Boerakker, Leek, Marum and Zuidhorn and part of the territory of the municipality of Winsum does not seem to be a problem, but there are not many cheers everywhere. Or as a Winsum resident requested, Gronings hypothermia, explains: there is no need to walk a polonaise to the dining table. The merger of Giessenlanden and Molenwaard threatens to endanger a third municipality. Gorkum fears his position as a centre municipality. As a result of the proposed reclassification, the existing provisions could not be maintained. That's capital destruction, isn't it? Is the Minister prepared to examine how regional relations remain in balance after reclassification? Can Gorkum's center position be preserved? The 50PLUS Group is considering tabling a motion to draw attention to this. Some of the inhabitants of the municipality of Arkel......................................................................................................................................................... Why wasn't that listened to and why wasn't that option met?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr Krol and I already understood each other, but now it's official. It is very good that Mr Krol is also calling for attention to gorkum. We also raised this in yesterday's debate. Then I tabled a motion on behalf of a number of parties to look at Gorkum's position. I think we understand each other very well. Perhaps we can work together to find a way to get that signal to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you very much for this comment. We're definitely gonna take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u12	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u13	The merger of Dongeradeel, Ferwerderadiel and Kollumerland and Nieuwkruisland already involved official cooperation. After the reclassification, the local burdens for the inhabitants of Kollumerland and Dongeradeel go up through the reclassification with Ferwerderadiel. They don't like it. Can the Minister indicate whether the inhabitants of Kollumerland and Dongeradeel will get anything in return? There are serious doubts about the merger of Noordwijk and Noordwijkerhout. A referendum was not allowed to continue. That even went right up to the judge. The referendum was banned by the welfare court because the law was already in the Lower House. Can the Minister explain how the referendum process in Noordwijk and Noordwijkerhout went into work and why it eventually escalated to the judge? Is that what we want? Is it true that the board has failed to measure its support and has it come to this? Would a referendum still be possible if we in the Chamber were to vote in favour of this? 50PLUS is also considering tabling a motion on this subject, requesting that this law be enforced until such a referendum is held. The last merger we are discussing in this debate is that of Geldermalsen, Lingewal and Neerijnen. In Lingewaal a referendum was called for. You guessed it: there wasn't. The municipal councils agreed, but as we have seen in national referendums, the elected parliament and its inhabitants may differ. The fraction of 50PLUS would have liked black-and-white what the inhabitants want. Mr. Chairman. Also with these nine mergers it sheds here and there. Redeployment is the panacea and it dwindles over the local population. If, by referendum, residents are given the opportunity to vote for or against a reclassification, in most cases the population chooses to vote against. In these nine laws we see that a number of referendums have been smothered in the bud. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with the other rational considerations why 50PLUS is asking for a pass to be made in the case of reclassifications in general and some of these nine laws in particular. The mantra of the municipal reclassification "greater is better" is really a myth. What have we learned from previous municipal reclassifications? That the opposite of what is intended is achieved. Will this be the case with the nine new merging municipalities? After all, governance is forward-looking. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister. The participation declines after reclassification. Residents experience a greater distance from the municipal administration and feel less involved in local politics. In larger municipalities the turnout at elections is lower. Let me give you an example of this: the turnout in the municipal elections for the merger municipality of Central Groningen was only 35%. In the municipal elections in 2014, the turnout in the original municipalities was much higher. In Hoogezand-Sappemeer this was more than 50%, in Menterwolde more than 55% and in Slochteren more than 57%. Does the Minister see a link between this sharp decline in turnout and reclassifications? Can the Minister provide a historical overview of the changes in turnout before and after reclassifications? The growth of local parties in last month's municipal elections is, of course, a sign in this discussion. The voters choose local. What is the future perspective of local parties in the dozens of municipalities that are now merging? Does the Minister think it would be an additional advantage for local parties to be silenced in this way? Increase reclassifications against the expectation in municipal costs. Four or more years after the merger, municipal expenditure is 10 to 20% higher. Recent research by the Centre for Research of the Economics of the Local Authorities of the University of Groningen really shows that larger municipalities per capita spend more money. Can the Minister outline a scenario of the municipal costs before and after the merger of these municipalities, taking into account, of course, inflation and the average cost increase? In short, Mr President, the 50PLUS Group once again stresses that the obvious benefits are not at all self-evident. reclassifications cost society taxpayers' money. The scale of the reclassifications, which consumes dozens and even hundreds of municipalities, is therefore no improvement for society as a whole. It leads to more public expenditure without giving citizens anything in return. 50PLUS looks forward to the new policy framework announced for the summer of 2018. Can the Minister also pay attention to the usefulness and necessity of municipal divisions? To conclude, I would like to say a few words about the toe-curving circular reasoning between decentralisation and reclassification. The policy can best be placed as close as possible to the citizen, it is said. And that is why decentralisation of public authority is needed. But in order to carry out the tasks, municipalities need to be merged, otherwise they would not be able to perform those tasks properly. Decentralisation of complex tasks is of limited sustainability. It leads to large differences between municipalities and thus facilitates legal inequality. If, in addition, the increasing number of municipalities is also a reason and the administration is being placed further and further away from the citizen, we are going to go down in real terms. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u15	Yes, municipal reclassifications: you get up with them and you sleep with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u16	The same goes for the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u17	Yeah, but it's fresh and fruity, unlike the colleagues. Or let me speak on my own behalf. In any case, the energy level of this debate is slightly lower than last night. But that could be a coincidence, Mr. Chairman. But you can't talk about it often enough. Let's be clear about that. The question is, of course, when will this party end, the celebration of the municipal reclassifications? Somewhere on a suitcase I still have a sticker, reminding me of a holiday that I once, a long time ago, celebrated in the beautiful town of Marrum in Friesland, with the text on it: "You municipality fan'e card, crazy talk!'. That's my attempt to speak to Frisian. This was about the reclassification of a number of municipalities towards Ferwerderadeel. And the municipality of Ferwerderadiel is now going to be redeployed in the Frisian town. I am always a little saddened by the anecdotes of Mr Van Raak, who has been sitting here for so long that he is now redefining churches which he himself has re-assessed, at least in front of him. It's like a Truman show we're all in. We do the same day every day. It's a kind of perpetuum mobile, and it's constantly being redistributed. The question of questions is simply: when will that stop? We didn't hear about that from the minister last night. We now have 12 of these projects with 37 municipalities. There are also some frogs jumped out of the wheelbarrow, like Landgraaf and Heerlen. I love that. But what about this term of office? The minister has been hired for four years. What else can we expect? Is there anything left in the reserves? What does the Minister think about that? Is this something we should continue with? 'Cause it doesn't seem to know an end. It goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Last night I said that this fits in with a much broader story of the erosion of democracy. See the European Union, the populace, the elites who all opt for left-wing liberalism, all kinds of agreements that put the Chamber out of play. See the climate agreement, see the second party of the Netherlands that is constantly excluded from the government, see the lobby, see a minister who does not recognise the election result, see the abolition of the referendums. This story also falls into that broader picture. Public administration, local government, is moving further and further away from the people. There's a belief, a reclassification hype. We must not forget that the Netherlands originated from the bottom up, the villages and cities are at the heart of local government. This is how the Netherlands has grown. And that, at least its administration, is now all denied and lifted. There is no evidence whatsoever, no evidence that this is good for the citizens. Research carried out by COELO 2013 Groningen shows that public spending does not go down, municipal facilities do not go up and the attractiveness of the municipalities does not increase. Professor Voermans, often quoted, does say that there are reasons to believe that confidence in politics is falling, which should concern all of us. He supports this, for example, with the turnout rates. He notes that there is an alienation of local politics. We shouldn't want that. My party is attached to that local democracy. Check out the neighboring countries, where all these municipalities still exist. That's not nostalgia, that's not The Village of Wim Sonneveld, that's not along my father's garden path. That is just the daily reality in the neighbouring countries, where all these villages are still their own municipalities. There are certainly disadvantages: the danger of clientelism, that you must make common arrangements which, let me say, are democratically challenged. Mrs Özütok has just tabled a motion on this matter. I can see those disadvantages, but with what happens now, this constant scaling-up of municipalities, who is really happy about it and who is actually served by it? Yesterday, when it was about Haren in Groningen, we saw that there are very few arguments, even in a municipality that says so loudly "we do not want to be redone." That is being rolled over with very weak arguments. It will then be better for the future, it is said. That's not substantiated. There is constant talk in words such as "future-proof" and "governance." And the municipality has not yet been reorganised or there should be something future-proof and something "governance" in the form of a new municipality. Mr. Chairman. I will advise my group to vote against all these reclassification proposals, all these legislative proposals. My group always does that when it comes to reclassifications that are not blessed by the people themselves, by the people in the villages and the cities. Mr Krol has taken up the Bosatlas, has already gone through the municipalities and has asked very sharp questions. This also applies, but less intensively, to the colleagues Van Raak and Bishop. I'd like to join in on that. There's a lot of question marks to put. Also Noordwijkerhout for example is one such, and Haarlemmerliede. I'd like to hear from the Minister how she feels about that. But the question of questions is simply: when will it stop and who will stop the machine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing nine reclassifications, in which 26 municipalities go together. The reclassifications of these municipalities are all initiated from below. All these municipalities have considered that it is better to go together with neighbouring municipalities in order to strengthen administrative power, to maintain access to facilities and to serve citizens even better. That is what my group supports, and that is why I will make my contribution to this debate brief. I have a question about the reclassification of Haarlemmerliede, Spaarnwoude and Haarlemmermeer; previous speakers have also mentioned this. A part of the village Spaarndam is located in the municipality of Haarlemmerliede and Spaarnwoude. Another part is in the municipality of Haarlem. In Spaarndam there are people who would like to see the whole village in a municipality. I would like to hear from the Minister how she looks at the wishes of some of the population and how she expects that the problem will be dealt with after the classification. I'm rounding up. GroenLinks can support the current reclassification proposals, because we believe that the proposals before us will help to create powerful municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I feel like we didn't leave last night. For me, at least. Municipal reclassification is a very far-reaching process. Trusted administrative units disappear and new units are created. For the CDA Group, it is very important that a section of municipal reclassification is carefully completed. The starting point is that the initiative comes from the bottom up. As far as the CDA is concerned, municipalities are the first to take action when it comes to the choice of partnerships and merger partners. It is therefore a good thing that the legislative proposals we are discussing today have all been drawn up from the bottom up. The final step is the decision-making process here by the legislator and then in the Upper Chamber. Precisely because municipal reclassification is a far-reaching process, it is good not to dismiss the legislative proposals here in the Chamber as a hammer piece, if only, and I would like to join Mr Krol in refreshing our topography. I'm gonna take care of this. The new municipality of Altena has already developed a vision for the future. Vision groups from the population have been working on drawing up their own vision for the new municipality. Over 250 people participated actively in one of these groups. Each vision group also attracted one or more council members. For example, in a good conversation they could experience how people look at that new municipality, what should happen, what needs there are and what discussions there are. That process has paid off, with a great deal of commitment, also in the case of a municipality which will soon have to prove itself again. That's a very good example of how you do it carefully. I hope that in the coming years we will see that this will benefit. The municipalities of Dongeradeel, Ferwerderadiel, Kollumerland and Nieuwkruisland are going to reorganise and choose for this. In 2018, the municipalities are also part of Leeuwarden-Fryslân Cultural Capital 2018. In this context, I would like to mention the beautiful landscape artworks that are being created along the Wadden coast in the context of the Sense of Place project, for example in Holwerd, Ternaard and Blija. For those who like Mr Krol really want to freshen up their topography, 2018 is the year to go that way and discover that very beautiful area for themselves. A hair in the soup of a reclassification is that in the reclassification of Haarlemmermeer and the position of Spaarndam. There are already several groups that have said that. Spaarndam is cut by the Spaarne. The wish of the residents of Spaarndam to be covered by a single municipal authority is considered differently, but the signal is clear, as people might have expected, in the process of municipal reclassification. The city council of Haarlemmerliede and Spaarnwoude has been very clear: the municipality must be added undivided, so as a whole, to another. But that is not the end of the discussion. As Members of Parliament, we have been able to make that very clear in the hearing and in the contacts we have had. As far as we are concerned, this discussion is on the table here today. It would be good to continue the discussion after the creation of the new municipality to see what the future of Spaarndam should be. I would very much like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u22	Isn't that the kind of discussion you have to have in advance? You can't say we're gonna redo and then have a discussion? I think we should discuss it first with the minister and with the residents. It seems to me to be a very good idea to hold on to this reclassification and to engage in the debate with the people in the villages to see what people want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u23	That was Mr Van Raak's view. Let me respond to that with the way I look at it myself. As soon as the Minister submits a law to the Chamber, we cannot change the preliminary process. That's just not something that's our responsibility either. There has indeed been a discussion about the future of Spaarndam, but it has certainly not been completed to the full satisfaction of the village on the basis of the signals we are getting. A significant part of the residents still have a desire to do things differently, for example an addition to Haarlem. I think it would be administratively careless if we, as a Chamber, put aside everything else that has been played in the reclassification. We have had a very open process with each other, in which we have made discussions. The fact is also that the municipalities are already so intertwined that it would be inappropriate governance to intervene on this issue. Do you want this discussion off the table? Not as far as I'm concerned. That is why I am asking for a response from the Minister. Then we can see in the second term whether there should be an additional kick-off from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u24	No, we have to assess the process. Throughout the country huge municipalities are rigged with up to 80 cores. And here we are dealing with a village, Spaarndam-West and Spaarndam-East, whose name suggests that they have something to do with each other. They're in two municipalities. What's more obvious than combining the two? What's the harm in asking these people: do you want to become a congregation yourself or do you want to join one or the other congregation together? Then we can settle that. If the CDA is serious about the fact that the reclassification is already so far that it would be indecent or terrible, I do not know exactly what words Mr Van der Molen used if we were to change anything about this, then we can eliminate all these debates. It will then no longer have to be submitted to the Chamber. If we get proposals here that we can't change anything at all, then I don't want them here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u25	I have heard Mr Van Raak say a great deal both last night and now about his sense of impotence with all those reclassifications that have passed. I'm just getting started here, but I'm from the local government and I know how reclassifications play, because as a driver I've been involved in two reclassifications to a greater or lesser extent. I know how much work is being done by the municipalities to ensure that the process goes well. Services are also important for residents. If you're pretty far into that, I think it's quite a step to say, well, let's just keep this going. That is a different consideration from Mr Van Raak's, but we can give each other a hand when it comes to Spaarndam's position. We may differ in how we see it in front of us, but we both put it on the table with the Minister, because it is the Minister's law that we must judge. Mr President, a smaller point, which we have also raised in the written response. This has to do with how the Chamber is informed by the Minister about the reclassifications. Mr President, I am also looking at you as President of the Chamber. We note that if the legislative proposals go to the Chamber, the reclassification advice and the underlying documents will no longer be sent by default. Of course, none of us are too sad to have that figured out and read all that data, but I think that complete information from the Chamber really means that all the relevant documents for the decision are simply sent to the Chamber. The Minister said in her written reply: that is all paperwork. Well, in this house, we don't print everything anymore. Digitally, everything is fine. I would therefore very much like to have the Minister's undertaking that if there are any redeployments to the Chamber, the whole package will be complete so that the Chamber can do its job properly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Den Boer on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr. Chairman. During this debate we are talking about nine reclassification laws, from 28 municipalities to nine. They are jointly engaged because the process has been mostly successful. The will to reorganise came from below and future municipalities have been thoroughly discussed. All municipal councils then agreed. Obviously, there are reclassifications where this is a little less the case. They get a lot of attention. That is why I would like to consider this. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a few words about the reclassification of Haarlemmerliede, Spaarnwoude and Haarlemmermeer. There there is a discussion about the destination of Spaarndam, a double village, which belongs to Haarlem for some time and for the other half to Spaarnwoude and Haarlemmermeer. The city council has clearly spoken: Spaarndam-Oost does not belong to Haarlem but to the new municipality. That is why we support the proposal as presented by the Minister. We would like to see the province further investigate, with the inhabitants of Spaarndam, the new municipality of Haarlemmermeer and the municipality of Haarlem, whether a border correction is a sustainable solution and whether there is support among the inhabitants of Spaarndam. Is the Minister prepared to raise this with the province of North Holland? Mr. Chairman. More and more municipalities consist of dozens of cores. During the reclassification, an active village policy has almost always been announced. Cooperation does not mean losing one's own identity and choices, as is often assumed, but we must remain vigilant. Will local democracy stay close enough? Is the government open? Do village choices continue to exist as much as possible? That is why there is a core policy. Core policy means diversity. For this the Gemeentefonds gives money to municipalities, a measure that dates from a time when there were hardly any municipalities of more than twenty cores. In the meantime, there's a lot more. It raises the question whether the measure has been sufficiently adjusted in the interim. Is it still tailored to today's merger municipalities? Mayors in Friesland, for example, are concerned whether they have sufficient resources for a future-proof core policy. Apart from the financial side, I am looking forward to a progress report on the implementation of core policies in the merged municipalities of recent years. When could I expect that? This helps to assess the reclassification proposals. Finally, Mr President, I would like to express my deep appreciation to all residents, council members, directors and entrepreneurs who have made enormous efforts over a period of several years to make this reclassification a success. In the run-up to the reclassification elections that will take place on 21 November 2018, I will be happy to meet them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mrs Den Boer. We have come to the end of the first term of office. I'll see if the Minister needs a short suspension or perhaps a straight answer. I can see that this is the case and that Members of Parliament are keen to do the same. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr President, thank you very much. Today, too, there is a lot of interest. The public gallery is full of people whom I assume to a large extent are residents of the municipalities we are talking about today, or run those municipalities. I think that's gratifying. We all like that. In fact, we are now discussing nine reclassification proposals at once. I would like to begin my answer with the general questions that were asked and which were partly addressed last night. I will try to go into this in more detail, and then I will answer some of the questions about specific municipalities. I do not think that Members of Parliament would have liked to say that there was a little less interest in those municipalities about which there were fewer questions. The opposite is, of course, the case. Perhaps first a general remark: all the reclassifications now under way have been made by the municipalities concerned themselves. This means that the municipalities have taken the initiative. They have taken the responsibility themselves to look at what is needed in their municipalities and how the administrative power in their municipalities can be strengthened. In doing so, they take responsibility, and that is to be appreciated. In doing so, they have also made a decision in a careful manner, according to the rules of the game and thus according to a careful process. I also observe that there has always been an attempt to do justice to the positions taken by council members. These are, of course, not all the same points of view to the views expressed by residents and to the emotions experienced by residents. Doing justice to all that is not always easy and is a great task. That is what all the people involved, both administrators and residents, have been working for. A great deal of appreciation for that. The proposals that ultimately meet the criteria of that 2013 policy framework that we discussed yesterday. It sets out a number of criteria: support, internal cohesion, including village and core policies, governance, balanced regional relations and sustainability. In the cases we are talking about, there is ample administrative support. The councils have initiated the reclassifications and there is support for that. They've invested in social support. I would like to stress that I think it is a good thing that municipalities can decide how they want to organise this support. I think that municipalities that want to do so should, above all, hold a referendum. It is also a good right for municipalities to do this in a different way, for example by organising participation evenings or debates in their municipalities. That's their right. I would also like to leave that choice to the municipalities. I'd like to compliment them on that, too. Mr. Chairman. The point of proximity was also raised yesterday, and that was mentioned today by some speakers as an important point of attention. I agree. Yesterday there were authors of books cited and studies indicating potential consequences. Mr Bosma, for example, spoke yesterday about the book of Voermans. I think that the local leaders also realise that a reclassification, a merger leading to a larger municipality, can lead to a greater distance from the administration, or that this can be experienced by residents at least in this way. It is also important to pay attention to this. Part of this is the village and core policy that we talked about and that we focus as much as possible on the neighbourhoods that can have identities. There are many initiatives, including those at the bottom, that can shape them. It's about neighborhood rights and neighborhood budgets. It's also about being a municipality that you dare to let go of things and leave it to your residents to take responsibility. It is also about giving initiative space and rewarding. I really believe in that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Raak and others say: what is the view of this cabinet on municipal reclassifications? Are you gonna sit back and wait for anything else to come, or are you gonna do something? The reclassifications here are based on the current 2013 policy framework. The coalition agreement contains a starting point for reclassifications: they should, in principle, be at the bottom. That is the preferred way. There may be situations in which the province has a role to play. We discussed such an example here yesterday. On the basis of that passage in the coalition agreement, I announced that I would come up with a policy framework. I think it is only natural, of course, for this policy framework to cover these aspects as well. I would like to say something about proximity, about identity, about participation of residents and about scale. You have already heard me say that there is no perfect scale. I'm from Amsterdam myself. I like that bowl. But yes, that is the largest city in the Netherlands. There are other municipalities in the Netherlands that have a very different scale that is appropriate. So I am not concerned with the exact number of inhabitants. There is no lower limit, I should like to say to Mr Krol. However, there is a lower limit to the quality that municipalities must be able to deliver to their inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u30	Is the minister going to look from consultancy or democracy? That vision that the minister is going to develop begins with the citizens whose municipalities are? Is she going to say in that vision that we are going to ask people first: what is your community? Because as a minister, I don't know, the House of Representatives doesn't know, and the county doesn't know. What is your community? What do you define as a community?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u31	I would like to say something about that in that view. I think that acceptance is an important aspect. I have just said that I can very well live with the fact that municipalities themselves decide how they want to organise things. So I do not want to say from The Hague 'you have to do this' or 'you have to'. I would like them to take this into account in their work and in their choice and to give effect to it. How they do that, I like to leave it to congregations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u32	Then there is the question of ownership: whose is local democracy? I fundamentally disagree with the Minister when she says "I leave it to the local leaders to see how they involve their people." That's exactly the wrong thing to do. The voters are central, not the elected. The question is how the population will involve the directors, not how the directors will involve the people. I think that means that if you take the local government seriously and if you take Thorbecke's house seriously, you should always start asking people for their opinion: what is your community, what do you want with your future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u33	Perhaps Mr Van Raak and I differ here. We've had a lot of differences of opinion. Sometimes we don't, then we agree. Local democracy, which, in my view, is the basis of everything, starts with the fact that we are holding municipal elections. That's when you secured the democratic legitimacy. Subsequently, municipalities in the Netherlands have a lot of freedom to act at their own discretion and also to organise their own support for the population. Many municipalities opt for a referendum if this is the case. There are also very good examples of this. Others don't choose that. That's not a freedom I want to take away from them. So you will not hear me suggest that we impose from above that it should be so. I am convinced that there are other ways in which municipalities can shape this. The local government really belongs to all of us; we're all such a resident.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u34	This debate is not about the framework that is yet to come, but we are talking about reclassifications. I have two questions for the Minister in response to this answer. The Minister calls support. That is an important point, but there are more points that play a role in a reclassification. I would like to know from the Minister that there is support for number one when it comes to the consideration that a minister should make or, for example, the province should take into account. The second is this. Several groups have already said something about the scope of the reclassifications. The Minister does not want to impose it from above, but does she have a view on the speed with which this is happening and whether we are going a little too far?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u35	The coalition agreement actually says something about the point made by Mr Van der Molen: from below it is by far preferable; municipalities themselves opting for a merger. This is exactly the case in the nine proposals we are deciding on here today. The exception is where this does not happen and the inhabitants of municipalities do not receive the quality of service they are entitled to. Then there could be a role for the county. I think Mr van der Molen can be reassured on that point. The coalition agreement actually says it already. This will be a basis in the policy framework that needs to be worked out. Other aspects, such as proximity, identity, participation, scale and support, are all part of the aspects that I would like to mention. Then there is the scope, the scale and the pace. In 1900, the Netherlands had about 1,100 municipalities. That number has gradually decreased to 380. I think we were halfway through the ride at about 1,000. If you look at the current map of the Netherlands, you can see that there are only some 20, 25 100,000-plus municipalities. By far the majority of municipalities are not that big. That is also what suits the Netherlands. Of course there is a limit here somewhere, but I do not think it is wise to say from here: that limit is exactly that number. No, I don't think so. As long as there is still a need for improvement, for example because of the financial capacity, from the services to be provided to citizens or from the investment capacity that municipalities need to have in order to be able to do what is necessary for their inhabitants, it may be necessary to reorganise, merge, cooperate. So no blueprint from above, but from below, see what it takes. So I don't want to be the one running the marshals. I'd rather leave it to the congregations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u36	And with that I have received an answer to my question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u38	... whether the reclassification process is still going on. The Minister replied: yes, as long as it is necessary to improve services for citizens. Last night, as an argument, the financial position was given far away in the future and as an argument was given the increase in the tasks of the municipalities. These tasks are only getting heavier; see the Wmo et cetera. I conclude from this that the whole reclassification mechanism, which has been going on for a long time and which has already cost many municipalities their lives, if I may put it this way, continues this policy period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u39	What Mr Bosma can conclude is that there will be a new policy framework and that I can imagine that municipalities still think it is necessary to work together to improve the quality of what the municipality should do. I do not want to rule it out at all, but I am pleased that we are going to give and develop a new policy framework for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u40	Many municipalities will therefore be dissolved in the coming years. That's what I'm distracting from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u41	Municipalities have the freedom and choice to work on reclassifications and aggregations, but they also know that there is a new policy framework to come. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps I can refer to last night's debate for the questions that were still going on about the consequences of reclassifications for local democracy. That's something that needs to be paid attention. There are several explanations conceivable for the next election where a lower turnout rate is, for example, that people were very committed to doing so and n you're a little less involved. But at least I think it is a point of interest, because that is not, of course, a desirable consequence of the reclassifications. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the questions about the reclassifications that are now in this meeting: nine reclassifications initiated from the bottom, from the municipal councils. Several spokesmen, at least by Mr Van Raak and Bishop and others, asked the question about the merger of Giessenlanden and Molenwaard. It is also voluntary and broad-based, unanimously established in the city council of Molenwaard and in Giessenland with thirteen for and two against. The question saw that Molenwaard is a relatively new, recent reclassification municipality. That's right. This was in 2013 as a result of a very long process. I think Mr Van Raak knows that best of everyone here. We had the municipality of Giessenlanden which was part of an official cooperation between the municipalities of Zederik and Leerdam. Following the formation of Molenwaard, the board of Giessenlanden concluded that the administrative cooperation was insufficient, which was already in 2013 and that there should be scaling-up. That image was confirmed in 2014. At that time, the Schutte Committee issued a report on this subject, which led to the present reclassification proposal. So you could actually say that what is now in front of you is something that was actually already visible by the eye hairs at the time of that reclassification. Here, too, the reclassification recommendation has been adopted unanimously in the municipality of Molenwaard, as I have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u42	Those eye hairs didn't have the minister at the time. But imagine: you are a resident of Count Stream, Liesveld, New-Lekkerland. In 2013 you were dissolved, merged in Molenwaard, but elections were not held. Then the next election came, but they weren't held either, because that new Molenwaard had to go back together with Giessenlanden. You can see that reclassification follows reclassification and consultants squeeze their hands, but also that the population has not only not been asked for an opinion, but has not even had elections either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u43	They've kept their end of the bargains. The aim is, of course, never that elections are not held. Of course, elections must be held, and that will also be the case here. It is an exceptional situation, but I would like to point out that it was said and pointed out in 2013 that this was probably not enough to deliver what needs to be delivered. Official cooperation was insufficient and should be scaled up. This is the result of that process which was also approved by the municipal councils themselves. That's why I'm behind that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mr Van Raak, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u45	You live in Liesveld, ahead, you live in Liesveld, that's your municipality, the municipality of Liesveld: "I live in the municipality of Liesveld." But a few years later you don't live in Liesveld anymore, then you live in Molenwaard, and a few years later you live in a completely different municipality. Not only has that never been a referendum, you have never been able to pronounce on the lifting of Liesveld or the next municipality of Molenwaard or the fact that you are going back to another, but thanks to these reclassifications there are no elections either. You didn't even get a chance to say anything through elections. In the meantime, you're two new municipalities away. The Minister says it is by the rules and that the procedures have been followed. If all this goes according to the rules and procedures and the outcome is crazy, then those rules and procedures are crazy, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr Van Raak is very passionate about this subject, but I think that we should also do a little justice to those who have gone through this process and who have discussed this with each other and talked to their people to see if there is sufficient support and whether this is a sensible step. That's what happened. I have faith in that. I have just paid tribute to those municipal councils and the municipal leaders who have done this; they have given this a lot of thought and are acting in the interests of their inhabitants. The same applies to these municipalities and this new municipality. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to go on to the questions about the so-called double village Spaarndam. The question was whether I had considered a border change where Spaarndam-Oost could be added to Haarlem. This is not part of the reclassification advice unanimously adopted by the municipal councils of both municipalities and thus supported by a majority. Since 2013, the municipality of Haarlemmerliede and Spaarnwoude have frequently consulted its inhabitants. Round tables have been held, debate meetings have been held and Internet polls have been held. On this basis, a value profile has been established. A simple combination of Haarlemmerliede and Spaarnwoude and Haarlemmermeer is considered the best way to guarantee all these principles. The advice of the municipal councils is therefore well-considered. It was created in consultation with the inhabitants and was chosen for a simple merger with Haarlemmermeer. That is why it is also included in the legislative proposal. Mr President, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u47	I see you're trying to interrupt, Mr. Van Raak, but I'd like to see how far the Minister is in answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u48	I still have some questions about specific municipal reclassifications. So I don't have a lot of them anymore, but I was done with this town.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u49	Even with Mr. Van Raak?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u50	Never.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u51	No. Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u52	This is where I ask for logic. Minister, why don't you try to get away from those officials? Just try to think about this as a human being, as a driver. I know the Minister has always been a good local director. Try to think about it. We have one village. It's in two municipalities. It happens. A mistake from the past. People used to do things wrong. Now here we are making municipalities, joining villages together. There are municipalities in the Netherlands with up to 80 villages. Now there's a village ahead of us that's in two municipalities. How strange is it, then, how strange is it, that these people think: now that the whole thing is turned upside down, can we not be as one village in one municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u53	Mr Van Raak has many municipalities in the Netherlands. I don't know if he knows these churches well, but I do. I think Haarlemmermeer has eleven double villages and therefore has a lot of experience with them. There's a rush going through it. It's all good. There's no problem. So this one's ready to go, too. Haarlemmermeer has good experiences with that. I know the region well. I do not know whether it was Mr Van der Molen or anyone else, but it has just been said here that of course there are differences of opinion among those who live in that area. All this is self-evident; all at your service. You can always find someone who says, "I prefer it this way," and you can always find someone who says, "I prefer it sister." This is the outcome of the process agreed by the municipal councils themselves. That is why I think it makes sense for me to support it. Is there any other way? Yeah, there's gotta be another way. Could this be examined again in the future? I don't want to rule that out at all. But I would like to explain why I support the proposal that has been made and converted into a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u54	There's a fern. That's right. But just because there's a rush doesn't mean there have to be two municipalities. Besides, there's a burg over it. The Minister must have seen that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u55	There's also a ferry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u56	And there's a ferry going!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u57	What I'm saying is, it's arbitrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u58	Exactly. I can't make up my mind and the Minister can't make up his mind...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u59	But the city councils do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u60	... but the people in the village do. What I am so afraid of is that the CDA, the VVD, the Christian Union and D66 will soon come up with a plan to talk to those people about the future of their divided village after the reclassification, after it has been decided that the village will remain divided. And I'd like to avoid that. Could I ask the Minister, for reasons of administrative purity, whether it is not more logical to have a debate, to ask people for their opinion and to see what makes sense before a decision is taken before a law is made?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u61	And then we are back to the point where we were: Mr Van Raak and I differ in that respect, because I like to leave that to the municipalities, while Mr Van Raak likes to impose it from above.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u62	There is a difference between a driver on the one hand and a representative on the other. That is why we have the debate. I've heard the Minister say the word "arbitrary." That's a strange word in this connection. You can indeed think differently about it, but with that it is not arbitrary. People live there and want to think about it themselves. I therefore ask the Minister once again the question I have put to her in my speech: does the Minister himself see the possibility of having that conversation, or should the Chamber help her to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u63	I had just understood Mr Van der Molen so much that he would be fine if we were to do it now as it says in the bill, but he wondered if it would be conceivable that we would sit around the table again with all the parties, including the province and the municipalities. Of course, this can be done, but what is now before us is supported by the municipalities that have shaped it. So let's see if we can do it this way. And if there is that wish, on my side there is certainly a willingness to cooperate and to agree that after 1 January 2019 we will sit down with the parties, also with Haarlem, and see if there is another way to sign that border. By the word "arbitrary," I did not mean at all that there has been no careful process. Of course there has been. I actually meant more that municipal borders could have turned out differently in the past. At some point something has gone for some reason as it has gone; therefore there are sometimes these double villages. In practice, that actually works very well. That's what I meant. Perhaps the word 'arbitrary' is not the happiest word in that, but I hope that Mr Van der Molen understands what I meant by this explanation. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to Noordwijk. Here too, the municipalities have made considerable efforts to involve their inhabitants in the process of reclassification. There have been acceptance tests in various ways: there are residents' evenings organized, dialogue sessions, online business, etc. I therefore believe that the municipalities have made every effort to reach a very large number of their inhabitants with their proposals. Relatively few views have been received. They themselves consider that the public support is present. The municipality of Noordwijk has chosen not to do it with a referendum, but in a different way. There has indeed been an objection procedure brought by a resident of Noordwijk against the non- holding of a referendum, but those objections have been declared inadmissible. I have just argued that I believe that the municipalities themselves should decide whether or not to vote for a referendum. Then there is the position of Gorinchem, for which Mr Bishop, Mr Krol and others have drawn attention. This also came up yesterday. Gorinchem is considered a medium-sized, administrative municipality within the region. There is no question of redeployment. The province of Zuid-Holland has also indicated that the special position of Gorinchem as a regional centre deserves special attention. Mr Krol referred to this yesterday. The province goes together with Gorinchem and the surrounding area to see how this is possible. Within the region, efforts are also being made to strengthen the urban cores of the region. In fact, they are gathering together, also to develop attractive urban cores and to shape that center function for the surrounding countryside. They have recently drawn up an agenda for this in February 2018. There is therefore a great deal of attention to this point, which has been raised here by various parties. Then Mr Krol asked about Molenlanden...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u64	One more question about Gorinchem. I would like to believe that what needs to be done administratively to secure that position of Gorinchem as a centre municipality is being done, but I meant that this is not entirely feasible. There are also autonomous processes. If people of the surrounding municipalities make different choices as a result of the changes, Gorinchem by definition loses a part of that center function. What does the Minister think or think? The county, dealing with that kind of risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u65	That is exactly what I wanted to say in reply to this question: that the province can play an important role in it, that it has also indicated its willingness to play that role, and therefore, even more importantly, understand its importance. On the contrary, the province wants to work together with Gorinchem and the surrounding area, to monitor precisely that centre function and to see if they can direct it in such a way that the choices made by surrounding municipalities strengthen that center function rather than weaken it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u66	In that case, I think that the instrument is too much sought out in administrative arrangements and administrative measures that are being taken, whereas, of course, these kinds of processes never play their part entirely in administrative spheres. I still have to see what agreements are being made with the neighbouring municipalities and what pressure is being placed on them from the province to do business especially with the centre municipality of Gorinchem; that is already a bit dubious. But if the inhabitants of these adjacent municipalities now make different choices, then those are processes that you as a government have little or no influence on? How is that to be met? So the problem is broader than just an administrative issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u67	On the one hand, I understand Mr Bishop when he says that it is more than just an administrative issue. On the other hand, I would almost like to ask the question: what more can I do, and what more can the province do than what I have just outlined? I think the intention is good. The directional role is good. The fact that attention is paid to this and the conversation about it is a way of influencing such choices in such a way that, when those choices are in question, they fall out so that they strengthen Gorinchem's position. I think that's what we should do. If Mr Bishop has any other suggestions I am overlooking here, I would be delighted to hear them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u68	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u69	We are not going to exchange nickels in terms of functions here, but just recognizing this risk is already a very important factor to prevent or solve that problem where possible. Well, that's a first step. I'd like to talk about how you could handle this while enjoying a cup of coffee. But that's more in an informal setting, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u70	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u71	In that case, I am very grateful to Mr Bishop, because by naming it several times today, he has contributed to his own solution, namely the recognition of it. That happened both last night and today. Thank you for that. Mr Bisschop and Mr Krol also informed about a survey conducted among the inhabitants of Arkel. I'm with the municipality of Molenlanden now. I cannot properly assess how representative this survey is, but of the respondents who filled it, two thirds preferred joining Gorinchem and one third of joining Molenwaard. So there are different views. There is a majority for one and a significant minority for the other. In fact, that is also apparent from the points of view. 82 views from Arkel have been submitted. There were also differences. That survey is relevant, as are other ways of measuring support. But this does not yet lead to an irrefutable conclusion on the basis of social support. Arkel is now part of Giessenlanden and moves to the new municipality of Molenlanden. Then there are a number of other questions. Some are of a general nature, I see. Mr Van der Molen asked about the reclassification opinions which had not been sent as annexes. I do believe that this was about not sending too many piles of paper to your direction. We all want digital, but in the end there is a lot of paper traffic between the ministries and your Chamber. Nevertheless, I have heard Mr Van der Molen very well. He would like to be able to consult the underlying documents and the reclassification advice. He also said digital is fine too. So I think it would be the easiest thing to do if I agreed that for the next time we would make sure that all Members of Parliament could easily, via a link or I do not know exactly how to do that, with one click in those parts. Then they can involve them in their judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u72	Of course, this is not the main point of this debate on the reclassification, but I am concerned about the position of the Chamber. The Chamber also has an archive, in which all these treatments and all the pieces can be found. I think it's just good to offer the pieces to the Chamber instead of just a link. Then we just have all the information available here. At least I would have been helped, and I think the Chamber would have been helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u73	I think there are very good agreements between the Chamber and the Department on how to do this. I'll let you have it all. You can do that physically, as far as I'm concerned. Let's just stick to the regular agreements that have been made about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u74	That does indeed mean that it goes not only through links, but also on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u75	On paper, fine. They're bulky pieces, but I'd be happy to send them. Mr Krol asked about the costs. He asked: can you outline a picture of the total costs after the merger of these nine merging municipalities? First of all, none of these nine have cost savings as the main motive for reclassification or aggregation. There are various reasons for this merger, but it is mainly about the facilities for residents or the professionalism of the official organisation, because there were vulnerabilities in them. However, at the beginning of 2016 an investigation was carried out into possible savings resulting from reclassification, as a kind of by-catch of the reclassifications. This is looked at, but once again, it is mainly about improving quality in the broadest sense of the word: the effectiveness of the municipal organisation and the provision of services. Sometimes you have to make costs and invest before you can reap the benefits. In the end, there must be more resources to spend on services. I do not think that these reclassifications are causing major deficits; that is not in line with the expectations of the municipalities either. Perhaps costs should be incurred in the run-up, but on balance it is financially attractive to do so and there is more money left to spend on the quality of the facilities. Mr Krol had specific questions about a number of municipalities. I can walk them by for a short while. He asked: what shows that the inhabitants of Lingewal want this reclassification? This is also the case in the case of all nine mergings that have been set up by the municipality in order to inform and involve residents about the reclassification. The views received also give no reason to believe that there would be insufficient support among the inhabitants. The municipality has also listened carefully to residents who have themselves come up with a manifesto. There are very active residents in the municipality of Lingewal, who participate well in this process. That manifesto is an expression of that. It's very good that that's been looked at. Mr Krol also asked about Kollumerland and Nieuwkruisland: what will they get in return if local burdens are raised? A reclassification always results in harmonisation in tax rates. This can yield a plus for one municipality and a minus for the other municipality, but also here: that is not the goal in itself. The aim is to strengthen and improve services for residents. Finally, isn't the cooperation between Bedum, De Marne, Eemsmond and Winsum more efficient than a merger? These municipalities are already working together in many areas, but they themselves have come to the conclusion that cooperation has actually reached an end that could not be further improved. They themselves would like to take that step towards reclassification, also here because of the higher level of service they can achieve if they really can function as one municipality. Mr President, that brings me to the end of the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u76	We all want a cup of coffee, of course, but the Minister, who is a very good skater, has slipped a bit over the core policy. I had that feeling. I had a few questions about this, in particular the question of whether the measure still fits the current large merger municipalities. At that time, we started from merging municipalities of about 20 cores. Now they could be 89 cores, like in Súdwest-Fryslân. So the question is whether this measure is still tailored to the current situation. Would you also be willing to let us know in the meantime how the reclassification proposals are being implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u77	Mrs. De Boer is absolutely right. Excuse me. Maybe, to be brief, I can promise that I'm willing to look into that? We did pay a little attention to it yesterday, and a little bit today. There are indeed large differences, depending on the local situation. With a lot of cores, it can go well. I think it is an important point, also because of identity and culture. But Mrs Den Boer is right. So I'd like to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u78	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the second term of office. I'll look around and see if there's any need. I see that there is a need for Mr Van den Bosch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u79	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister. I look forward to the policy framework for the reclassifications. I think that goes for the whole Chamber. Let me say on behalf of the VVD Group that it would be good to look at how we can find each other even more at this time. That's good, because you can see that there's a lot of unrest in society. Let me say the same here. I believe, as a former local driver too, that we should be doing a good job of this and not all of us think that we know best here. Let me put that out hand here. Mr. Chairman. I have one more comment about Gorkum. There's a reason we filed that motion last night. I know the situation. Gorkum has, of course, become a bit alone in his position in recent years. Let me put it this way. They feel the same way. That's good in itself. The new city council has reported that, too. Eventually, Gorkum has to solve that himself, not us, because then we're gonna sit back in their seats. I think they're gonna need some help with that from the county. Finally, Mr President. In itself, thank you for the comments on Spaarndam. I do not think that we should stop the reclassification, because it is a good process in itself. There is nothing wrong with that and that would really be a waste of all the energy that has been put into it. That is not to say that we should look again at whether there is support for a border correction in particular. I say this without criticizing it, but we have held hearings and listened to the people for a reason. We want to make that clear in a motion on behalf of the CDA, D66 and the Christian Union. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas at present the double village Spaarndam lies partly in the municipality of Haarlem and partly in the municipality of Haarlemmerliede and Spaarnwoude;]] [[Whereas the draft law merges the municipalities of Haarlemmerliede and Spaarnwoude and Haarlemmermeer partly into the municipality of Haarlem and partly into the new municipality of Haarlemmermeer;]] [[noting that in the merger of the municipalities of Haarlemmerliede and Spaarnwoude and Haarlemmermeer there is a discussion about the position of the double village of Spaarndam;]] [[calls on the government, after completion of the reclassification process, to ask the province of Noord-Holland to explore with the new municipality of Haarlem, the municipality of Haarlem, and with the inhabitants of Spaarndam whether a border correction is a lasting solution for the village of Spaarndam and whether this can count on support from the inhabitants of Spaarndam, and to inform the Chamber within one year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van den Bosch, Van der Molen, Den Boer and Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34827-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u81	Thank you very much, Mr Van den Bosch. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several scientific studies show that the cost per capita increases if the municipality increases;]] [[Whereas it is not self-evident that, following a merger, work is cheaper and that there is more money left for provision;]] [[calls on the government to provide a financial scenario for the nine merged municipalities, taking into account inflation, average cost increases in Dutch municipalities and the level of provision in the nine merged municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several scientific studies show that in larger municipalities the distance from the administration is felt to be greater by the inhabitants;]] [[calls on the government to provide a vision of a possible upper limit on the size of a municipality, as well as a vision of the usefulness and necessity of municipal divisions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas no proper referendum was held in the planned merger of Noordwijk and Noordwijkerhout;]] [[Whereas there is a need for this;]] [[calls on the government to suspend the draft law to merge the municipalities of Noordwijk and Noordwijkerhout until a referendum has been held,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28750-69]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28750-70]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34832-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u83	Last one, just in time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are signs that turnout for municipal elections will be reduced after reclassification compared to pre-reclassification turnout;]] [[calls on the government to provide a historical overview of turnout rates in municipal elections before and after the merger,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28750-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u84	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u85	Thank you very much, Mr Krol. Then I'll see if the minister's been writing along with the final motions. They're being copied and distributed. Shall we suspend for five minutes? That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u86	I would ask everyone to sit in the public gallery. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One of the Members began with his first term just as much with the observation that there would have been a little less energy in the Chamber today than last night, but at least I noticed in the suspension that there is no such thing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u88	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u89	It's extremely lively. Thank you once again to everyone who sits here in the public gallery and who has come for this debate. It is very much appreciated, at least by me, but I think everyone here today. I still have a few open points from the first term. Before the words of Mr Van Raak indicate that there is either a total anarchy in Molenwaard or a total anarchy, or that there is a kind of totalitarian regime there because there are no elections: elections were held in 2013 and elections are planned in November 2018. So local democracy lives. On the core policy, I have just promised Mrs Den Boer that I will take a closer look at it. Perhaps it is right to add that it is most logical to involve this in the revision of financial relations. Then I'm just making it a little more concrete than I just said. Then there's the motions. The first motion (34827, part No. 6) by Mr Van den Bosch and others. It is really about what we have just discussed in detail in the first period. There is a call in the motion to explore, after the reclassification process, with all those involved, including the residents, the basis of support among the inhabitants is, of course, an important element of the question of whether a border correction would be a desirable solution. Of course you can. I would like to leave the opinion on the motion to the Chamber, because if the new municipality, in consultation with the province, Haarlem and those involved, would like to do so, that is of course possible. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u90	I am a little concerned about the sustainability of these reclassifications. We have Molenwaard today, but we had redistributed it five years ago, now again. There haven't been elections since. The last ones were in 2012. Now we are going to make a law with a reclassification and part of that reclassification is that it is already more or less decided on the possibility of a border correction and a new reclassification. As a simple representative of the people, I am a little concerned about the sustainability of the laws that we are making here when we say in the course of the debate that the law should actually be changed again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u91	No, that's two different things. We have just outlined Molenwaard, which was actually foreseen at the time that something else might have to happen in the long term. So there's a continuum in that process. This is about something else. This is about the desirability or not of applying another border correction. That's different from a new reclassification. The motion is judgment Chamber, but if it is adopted, then of course the parties can sit around the table again. I'd like to facilitate that. Then I will be on Mr Krol's motions, three of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u92	A foursome. Mr Krol has tabled four motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u93	Sorry, four. I counted wrong. I've got four in front of me, too. The first motion (28750, part No. 69) deals with Mr Krol's wish for a financial scenario to be drawn up. A financial scenario has, of course, already been drawn up. A so-called financial scan was carried out in 2016. That scan and the process that followed it show that there are no financial risks. It is also stated in the explanatory memorandum of the law. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. It's already done. The second motion (28750, part No. 70) calls for a vision of a possible upper limit of the size of municipalities. As I said to Mr Krol, we have no lower limit. Now he wants an upper limit. No, I'm not in favour of that. It all seems like we're gonna decide what's best here. That looks like a blueprint from The Hague, but that is not the way the cabinet wants to deal with reclassifications. For that reason, I also advise against this motion. The Krol motion in part No. 7 (34832) is about Noordwijk and Noordwijkerhout. The motion calls for the bill to be suspended until a referendum has been held. It's not obvious that I'd be excited about that. I have just said that I leave it to the municipalities whether or not they want to hold the referendum. They have chosen not to do it and to measure the support base in a different way. That is why I must also advise against Mr Krol's motion. Finally, the Krol motion on item No. 71 (28750), in which Mr Krol asked the government for a historical overview with turnout rates before and after aggregations. Mr Krol is asking for something that is actually already there. The CPB has already done this investigation. That came up yesterday. Mr Bosma also mentioned it. There are also scientists who have looked into it, so I think there is enough material. For that reason, I advise against this motion. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u94	Thank you. This brings us to the end of dealing with a number of mergers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u95	We shall be voting on the legislative proposals and the motions tabled next Tuesday. I see that the same spokesmen and the same minister are going to have the next debate, so I suggest that we proceed immediately with the next issue.
