ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on Eastern European drivers who live in their cabins for months. Once again, I would like to welcome the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State and also the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. Speaking time is three minutes. I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP. He always keeps to his speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u2	New round of new opportunities, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. For months away from home and away from your family and that for a salary of €235 per month plus expenses. That is the hard reality for many Romanian and Polish truck drivers, truck drivers who often actually work in the Netherlands. In the broadcast of Nieuwsuur on October 11, we saw Mihai, a Romanian truck driver, day in and day out of life on a few square meters. It's modern slavery! The Dutch boss of Mihai has registered his transport company in Romania. This bogus structure circumvents social security contributions and social security contributions. Mihai has virtually no rights and he doesn't build up a pension. Does the government find this unacceptable to me? During the weekend the Dutch parking lots are full of trucks from Eastern Europe. The drivers are not busy with their work but are mainly working on survival, says Edwin Atema of the FNV. Does the government share that opinion? In December last year, in the Social Affairs budget, a SP motion was adopted instructing the government to start actively maintaining it. It's been quiet for over a year. I'll see you last weekend. Then suddenly we saw Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen with flyers in a parking lot. It had to be over with those nights! Finally. Not only did you perform a SP motion, you also took over a SP method. Compliments. I do have a few more questions. One: on what scale will the Minister maintain? In her letter of 15 January, I read about'some targeted actions'. That's a lot of shit. On the website of Follow the Money I read that the Inspection Environment and Transport, ILT, will not maintain at private truck parkings. That's not possible. It must be structural enforcement in all relevant areas. This is my second question, Mr President, which is far too few people for proper enforcement. Is the government gonna get more inspectors? My third question concerns fines, which are far too low. Yesterday at EenVandaag we saw the example of the transport company Brinkman from Emmen. The company committed numerous offences involving a fine of about 1 million euros. In practice, this company is likely to receive a fine of only €60,000. Are you prepared to raise the fines considerably? Otherwise, it's a joke. And can I assume that the fines are intended for employers rather than drivers? Mr. Chairman. Last week we read that the company Don Trucking from Ulft is building a trucker's hotel for drivers. Why doesn't the company ensure that drivers get home in time to enjoy their mandatory weekend rest? The company works with drivers from Ukraine who are formally granted a work permit in Poland, but actually work from within the Netherlands. Do you think it is acceptable for companies to get drivers from outside the EU while we still have millions of unemployed in Europe? Does the Minister agree that drivers who mainly work in the Netherlands should simply have Dutch employment contracts and thus contribute to social security contributions and taxes? Finally, Mr President. On Monday, CNV foreman Limmen made a call to the Secretary of State to be critical about labour migration. We have 1.2 million people on the sidelines in the Netherlands. So why get cheap labour from abroad? That's the neoliberal race to the bottom. It's like playing employees against each other. The government shouldn't want that. Please respond to his plea which we fully agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you. I would like to say that you are always within the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u4	Just a few seconds, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr Jasper van Dijk talks a few times about SP-motions. Actually, I'd like to compliment the SP. Is this not a good example of cooperation in the Chamber, because the motions you mention were supported by VVD, CDA, D66, Party for Animals, GroenLinks, very broad, more than a year ago? Recently, Mr Gijs van Dijk's motion was also widely supported. And now the cabinet's gonna do it right now. Nice working together, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u6	Well, working together is my middle name. That's not the problem. Ask Mr Gijs van Dijk. You asked me a question and I thank you for that. My compliments. Do that more often, because I'll be able to figure this out for a while. Mr Van Weyenberg is absolutely right: it is good that the motion has been widely supported and that the Minister has started to fly. I made that clear. The question is how comprehensive this enforcement is. Is it limited to a few targeted actions where there is a nuisance, or is it going to be maintained structurally? You know the parking lot, too. They're all over the Netherlands. We really should do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u7	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Özütok, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Eastern European truck drivers spend months in their trucks. They sleep weekends in parking spaces for a low wage of €235 per month. When they get home, they don't get paid. This is really modern slavery. Eastern Europeans work under terrible conditions and this leads to an unfair labour market. There are three reasons for this. Firstly, Europe is not the social Europe it should be. Europe has been a market and currency project for too long. One European labour market also requires European social legislation so that workers have equal rights. We must ensure equal pay for equal work. Does the Minister agree with me that Europe is not doing enough to protect workers and that the rules should therefore be stricter? The new Mobility Package of the European Union makes the rules more flexible and offers less protection. What is this Minister and Secretary of State's position on this deal? Do they do their best in Europe to better protect workers? Secondly, the rules that exist must be better enforced, including by the Netherlands. It is well known to employers that in the Netherlands there is no monitoring of driving and rest periods and the mandatory 45-hour break. Employers even say to their drivers: do not take a break in Belgium or Germany but in the Netherlands; there are no controls, so you can take a shorter break. The Netherlands is finally going to maintain. Drivers can get a fine of €1,500 if they spend an entire weekend in a parking lot. But if driving and rest periods are violated in Belgium, the fine is €1,800. In France, this fine may even amount to €30,000. Then why was a fine of €1,500 chosen? Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that this fine should be as high as in the neighbouring countries? Otherwise, there is still a perverse incentive for employers who want to save every euro to go to the Netherlands, the country with the lowest fine. I'd like a response. Thirdly, we must close the gaps in the law. Modern slavery is made possible by false constructions, whereby Romanian or Bulgarian truck drivers are hired by Dutch companies on a Romanian or Bulgarian salary, while they do exactly the same work as their Dutch colleagues and also work in the Netherlands. Dutch companies use these structures to pay less wages. That's what these letterbox companies from the Netherlands are about. It's about getting around social security. Mr. Chairman. Our neighbour Belgium wants to tackle the use of mailbox companies in Eastern European countries, to combat social dumping in transport. For example, a company should actually carry out at least 25% of its activities in the country where it was established. We could do that in the Netherlands, couldn't we? Will this cabinet look at this Belgian example and ensure that these letterbox companies are dealt with so that employees can be better protected? I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u9	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate was requested last autumn by the SP Group following reports on the appalling conditions under which Eastern European drivers have to camp in places behind service stations in the Netherlands. That is a discussion that has been going on in this Chamber's Committee on Social Affairs for several years. Several motions have also been tabled on this subject, often by the SP, but have been supported by the entire Chamber to maintain it, as Belgium and Germany have been doing for a long time, because it has caused a nuisance in the Dutch border regions over the past period. Given the conditions under which drivers are staying in these places, the exploitation associated with them and the bogus structures that companies make a lot of money from, it is necessary to start to maintain. I would therefore like to begin by congratulating the cabinet on the message from last weekend that this will be maintained. It is a good thing that the Netherlands will continue to follow the example of countries such as Belgium and Duisland and also in line with the ruling of the European Court of Justice which the cabinet had previously indicated that it would like to await. I also think that the fact that this is happening is widely felt by the committee as a success because of that widely shared wish. In the Committee on Social Affairs, there are often strong differences of opinion on the labour market, but it is sometimes also the case that there is unanimity. We saw this last December when there was widespread dissatisfaction in the committee on constructs conceived within the platform economy, and I refer also to the motion that was adopted in the context of the budget debate. Around the maintenance of the truck stops there has been this consensus for a long time. So it's a good thing this is happening now. Well, my question is how this is going to happen. I would therefore like to hear from the leaders what is going to happen in the near future in order to shape this enforcement. It is not only important to combat the nuisance in the border regions, but it is also necessary for road safety, because it increases road safety for people living in Brabant and Limburg, especially on regional roads. It is also important for the working conditions of the truckers. In addition, it is important to make a fist against these false constructions. Bonafide companies and hardworking Dutch drivers are competing away by constructs that simply cannot. Hence the question of how to maintain it. Mr Jasper van Dijk of the Van Dijken Group has already referred to yesterday's message from the FNV. I do not ask the Minister to deal with the individual case, but rather with the signal that fines should not be high enough when working with these kinds of constructs knowingly. Fines and punishments help companies that don't do it on purpose. However, I am now talking about constructs. We have also had this discussion in hotel cleaning, where really dozens of percent below the market price is operated. Although enforcement may increase the chances of being punished, it is also questionable whether the level of fines is sufficient to clean up the situation. So, in response to yesterday's distress signal from the FNV, I ask the rulers, without going into the individual case, I understand that this cannot go into the question of whether the fines are high enough to counter this when they are used knowingly and knowingly. I too am over my speaking time for a few seconds now, Mr President, for which I apologise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u11	I'm gonna give you some time, too. The compliments have been made. There has been a start on enforcement and that is good. I think we can establish that today. But it is exactly what you say: how will it be maintained? In my view, there are still some comments to be made. Which places is going to be maintained? As far as I'm concerned, that can be wider. Do you agree with me? I heard you on the radio yesterday about these fines, and you were quite sure: that should be firmer...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u12	And now your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u13	...and the fines are too low. Do you agree that we really need to get that from the government today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u14	First of all, I would like to hear from the cabinet how it intends to do this enforcement. I think that the problems in the port of Rotterdam, for example, and in the border regions, are very serious when it comes to the diversion effect from Belgium and Germany. If it's any different, I'd like to hear it from the cabinet, too. But I think it would be wise for you to use that enforcement in the places where the nuisance is greatest. I do not want to sit on the seat to determine this in detail, but it is clear that this is necessary because of road safety, the nuisance, the conditions for drivers and the prevention of these constructions. Then it is important not only the chance of catching up and maintaining it, but also the fact that fines have to be used when it happens knowingly and when it is a great construct. Hence my question following the FNV's signal to the cabinet: how does the cabinet see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u15	That is a clear language about enforcement. We're gonna listen to that. However, as far as fines are concerned, I have heard Mr Heerma speak a strong language. It would be a good thing for him to say that we need to take steps today; if the government is not going to do so, the Chamber should take care of it. Mr Heerma, I count on your support!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u16	That's always good to do, Mr Van Dijk. We're gonna wait for the debate. I would like to say one more thing about it. We have also had discussions here about fines under the Fraud Act. I've always had the SP on my side. When it was a one-off mistake, fines were sometimes unfair to people. That is why I say in this debate, and that is what I said yesterday: it is about fines that have to work when there is a construct, when people knowingly cheat on the place to have great advantage of it. The SP, together with the CDA and D66, has applied the Fraud Act against fines so high that bona fide companies that have made a mistake go bankrupt. Neither does Mr Van Dijk. So the way you deal with those fines to deal with those constructs, it's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u17	I have another question about the fine. Mr Heerma talks about companies that really abuse the rules. It's like he wants to introduce a flexible fine. I'm just gonna say it in my own words. How do you feel about the fact that this fine could be equivalent to the fines in the countries around us? That's what you get off those constructions right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u18	I don't want to introduce anything. The system of flexible fines already exists. During the last period, there has been a strong discussion with Minister Asscher in the framework of the Fraud and Administrative Law on whether fines could be moderated in the event of a mistake. Therefore, the fact that implementing authorities take account of the situation of the case when imposing fines is not something new. That was part of the Fraud Act back then at UWV. That's important. And that is my answer to Mr Jasper van Dijk. If, for example, a major investigation was carried out into temporary employment agencies which had doubts or were doing their job wrong, then that investigation also revealed cases of very small businesses which had done something wrong for many years. Such a very small company then received a very high fine and was thus on the verge of bankruptcy, while the case could not be hardened against that agency over which there were doubts. These are things that the SP has always said: this cannot be the intention. So that differentiates according to the nature of the case is existing legislation. I think that is very important here. So that is also an answer to Mr Van Dijk's question. If it's a set-up construct we've had hotel cleaning where the goal is to have a huge competitive advantage...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u19	Clear!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u20	...then that fine must be high enough to break that earning model.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u21	Mrs Özütok, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u22	You use a lot of words and you don't answer my question. My question is: do you agree that the fine should be as high as the fines in the neighbouring countries? That is a very specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u23	If I'm being very honest, I don't know what the different levels of fines in the countries around us are. I do not know if that level is much heavier than in the Netherlands. Again: very high fines are not enforced, and that does not help. So enforcement must be firm. It has to be done. That's where the cabinet is taking a step. And when there are deliberately and knowingly constructs, there must be high fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u24	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sometimes by working together in this Chamber you get great results. I get to go to work a lot. One visit was once given to me by colleague Ulenbelt of the Socialist Party. At the invitation of the FNV I went to a parking lot near Vlaardingen together with colleague Heerma on a weekend on a Sunday morning early. You don't know what you're seeing. I didn't know what I saw. Reading things on paper is still quite different from experiencing something in practice. Constructs with drivers from Montenegro and Romania, for example, who stayed in their cabins, who were driven there in a van and then actually lived in that parking lot for three months. They drove from that place to the border from time to time. This has nothing to do with freedom of movement for workers, which is a construct, as Mr Heerma rightly calls it. Action against this has proved to be very complicated, including for enforcers. One of the points for which attention has actually been asked is about permanently spending the whole weekend in your cabin. You must imagine that for three months on the highway at Vlaardingen. What you see now is that a ruling by the European Court of Justice makes it clear that we can maintain it much more strictly. The cabinet has said before: the second that it becomes clear that Brussels is allowed to do so, we are going to do so. I am glad that this cabinet is implementing this so quickly and that the Minister has even been handing out flyers in such a parking lot, where the real recipient of the flyer is not the driver. The real receiver is the driver's client. I am extremely content about this. In the past, it has been said that we cannot lie down in the bushes to maintain. That is what some predecessors of both rulers said. But as far as I'm concerned, we absolutely can. It's called enforcement. The guard also looks at the cell door 24 hours a day. Mr. Chairman. However, I do have a few specific questions about how these very good intentions are going to work out in practice. The first is that I assume that the ILT, the minister's inspection service that deals with this, has sufficient capacity to maintain it seriously and firmly. Laws without enforcement have no value, so I'd like to hear how she sees this. The phrase 'a few checks' quoted by Mr Jasper van Dijk may be a bit firmer in my opinion, and given the fact that the Minister was immediately in that parking lot, I also assume that it will be firmer. The cabinet has also made funds available to deal with constructions. I assume that all this will be done in good cooperation between the two rulers. Are we, for example, going to take over literally the way Belgium and Germany work now, or is this still being done in other forms? And yes, in connection with the fines of €1,500 per driver, I assume if ten drivers are caught, that ten times €1,500 is a fine for the entrepreneur they all work for. That's what I'm assuming. If a company like that runs into the light the second time, will the fines just go up? This is very common in social security: if you cheat for the second time, you will be dealt with much more severely. I suppose that's the case here, too. Moreover, I believe that this is also the subject of the Fraud Act. I see colleague Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u26	In my view, Mr Van Weyenberg is addressing a justified point, which was also part of the FNV's signal when it comes to a company which knowingly does so to all drivers. Well, then it shouldn't be the case that it only gets fined once. However, in the last part of Mr Van Weyenberg's question I do see a risk, because we also know that this type of construction is very often used with e.g.s that keep changing names and that in theory you get the situation that a new e.g. always runs into the lamp. Then the heavier fineing of a second time does not help because a new e.g. is always found. I therefore believe that this aspect of the phony constructions should be avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u27	I fully agree with Mr Heerma. That also complicates the enforcement here, because you have to keep on figuring out what's easier said than done, who's behind this now. We have also seen this in the broadcasting sector, with catcatchers and in the background always the same crooks. Not the broadcasting sector in general, but the people who are ruining the market there. So I see this as a supplementary question. Are we going to ensure that there are sufficient facilities so that the weekend rest outside the truck can also be well spent? Of course, there should also be places where you can park your truck on Friday. There aren't all of them from today to tomorrow. How's the secretary gonna pick that up? Finally, the new mobility package is currently being negotiated in Brussels. I did not always find the text in previous letters from the previous cabinet as unambiguous. I read in the last letter that the Minister writes that the Netherlands will support a ban on weekend rest in the truck during the negotiations. Since there were other texts earlier, I would ask her to indicate that we are also asking for an explicit inclusion in the directive that you cannot structurally spend the weekend rest in your cabin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u28	Proper questions from Mr Van Weyenberg, about both the capacity of the ILT and the level of fines. They're gonna have to kick some ass. Mr Van Weyenberg also rightly says that the fine must be imposed on a company, the client. The Minister writes on 15 January: these enforcement actions will impose fines on drivers. I don't suppose that should be read like that either, if it's up to you. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u29	I get the question. Yeah, I got it, too. In that parking lot, I heard it was taken off your paycheck if you had to drive because the parking lot was full. Then the driver is the victim. What the minister is doing here isn't putting the driver in the way of anything. She wants to ensure that those who put them there in that parking lot are dealt with. You and I agree on this very quickly, but we do not need to maintain it, at least we cannot maintain it. After all, it is a very nice profession. I therefore support your appeal to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u30	I can see the Minister's nodding in comprehension. I'm just gonna assume that this might be a little clumsy. We're gonna hear about it later. Very nice! I would like to speak about capacity, because I have the same concerns about it. There's gotta be plenty of people. Do you agree that, if the government does not provide for this, we as a Chamber should look at how we expand that capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u31	I have some experience in expanding the capacity of inspection services. I have acquired this experience together with colleagues from you, Mr Heerma and other colleagues. The Labour Inspectorate is now getting hundreds of people involved in dealing with bogus constructions. The Minister has worked hard on this, almost the day after the European Court gave us the opportunity to do so. Once again, I congratulate you on that. I'm assuming the cabinet will secure sufficient capacity. I have every confidence in that. If there is a problem, I also assume that we do not even have to call the Minister, but that she will report to us. So I have every confidence in it. I do agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk that a law which exists on paper but which is not properly enforced does not solve the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u32	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Like many roommates, I was in many parking spaces last summer. I rode a day with Jan, a driver from North Holland, a driver of my own. What strikes me every time I talk to drivers is the enormous pride they talk about their profession. 'Cause it's a really nice job. If I hadn't become a Member of Parliament, I might have become a driver. I really mean that, because you have the freedom. You have the many contacts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u34	Then you were a colleague of Mr Teeven's.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u35	He's a bus driver. I mean, driver in the truck, but maybe it's also true if you're a driver on the bus. It's a really nice job. I also find the pride and craftsmanship really fantastic. That is what I really want to say in this debate. But like Jan and many other drivers, I am very worried. The transport sector in the Netherlands is doing very well. We're progressive. Internationally we are also one of the forerunners. The sector has survived the financial crisis as well. But, as several colleagues have said, there is definitely a very dark edge. This is due to unequal competition with other countries, especially with Eastern European countries. According to Dutch drivers, this also has a very dark side, especially for all those Eastern European drivers, who do indeed have to do their job under appalling conditions and who stay here in the Netherlands. They are little at home and have to do the work for almost no salary. I think there's something to be said about it. This also happens under the inspiring leadership of Edwin Atema of the FNV, who has been working on this for years. Paul Ulenbelt from the SP picked that up. Meanwhile we find Chamberwide, from left to right, that this really cannot be done. I think that's a win. I also think it is a gain that a new cabinet and the new minister immediately show that they stand for it. Now that is done in the parking lot with leaflets and later with fines. So I think it's good and that's profit. It's also up to the drivers. This applies not only to Dutch drivers and the transport sector, but also to drivers in Eastern Europe. A number of questions have been asked about enforcement. I'm just gonna back that up. How do we deal with this enforcement? Do we have enough capacity? In fact, the coalition agreement says that more inspectors will be added, but how are we going to do that structuralally? Can the Minister give us a view on this? For it is clear that we are now going to maintain firmly. Together with the SP I ask: can these fines be higher, so that the amount is not a slap that a large transport company can suffer? Let's really do that. Finally. It has also been said by predecessors that it is very difficult to lie in bushes to maintain in parking spaces. As far as I'm concerned, we will. On this point, I support Mr Van Weyenberg. So I am very curious what the approach will be to maintain the weekend rest really well, because that is quite complicated. I would like to hear the Minister discuss this further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u36	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wiersma on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u37	Mr President, thank you. After a long week of work, spend the weekend with your family or spend the night in a location that is also safe and clean. Many people think this makes sense, but for drivers who drive through our country and surrounding countries day after day, this is not always the case. The Minister now sets a clear standard: employers must ensure that their staff can be at home on weekends or at least in a well-protected place with sanitary facilities and facilities. Questions have also been asked about the safety of that place. We have also drawn attention to this in previous budgetary debates, so I am curious to hear the answers of the directors. The clear rules for maintaining the normal weekly rest within the cabin apply from 1 January. So you can see again where a debate request can lead. That is a compliment to Mr Van Dijk, and I should like to say to both Mr Van Dijk. If I recall correctly, a motion was unanimously adopted on 5 December, a fine day, tabled by Mr Van Dijk, but of course with the support of Mr van Dijk, Mr Jasper van Dijk. That was also the one I meant here, who I gave the compliment and who is therefore receiving a double compliment. The VVD is pleased that we are now getting to grips with this, and that is a compliment to the Minister, because there was a long period of uncertainty as to whether countries could ban long-term cabin rest on the basis of the current rules. At various times, the Court called for clear rules and for them to be enforced. Now they're here, and that's important. At the same time, we're not there yet. Also this week a message came from the UWV that there is a large shortage of truck drivers: in total about 7,000 vacancies. That offers opportunities for people who are just now jumping for a job. The Minister of SZW is not here today, but I would like to ask him to speed up consultations with the sector and, for example, the UWV in order to increase cooperation so that people are accompanied to these jobs. We have voted in favour of a motion in the SZW budget and we would like to take this sector into account in particular. I hope the Secretary of State can pass that on. One final point before I finish. We have a responsibility together to make the profession of driver attractive in the Netherlands. It is good that the ILT is now going to maintain, but we all know that there is sometimes more to it: foreign drivers who, through false constructions, are flying the Dutch flag against Eastern European wages and exploitation. It is precisely this unfair competition on pay in equal conditions that does not help the attractiveness of the profession. It is a good thing that we are again emphasising this with each other, even today. It is not for nothing that this cabinet pays extra money for that inspection and for the inspection SZW. Can the Secretary of State undertake to pay particular attention to this sector in the development of these plans? Could we perhaps do more at this time, before we have identified priorities for the additional resources available, through the inspection? Because on the one hand there is the ILT and on the other there is the Inspection SZW. An example of where this might be possible according to the VVD is the collaboration that already runs in the Transport Information and Expertise Centre. That's a collaboration between the ILT, the SZW Inspection, customs and police. Could they also make use of the resources now available to the Inspection and are there possibilities for stepping up this cooperation? The same is true of the cooperation already in place in the Benelux Treaty, which, for example, does not include Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u38	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u39	That is one of our neighbouring countries. Could we also intensify it and discuss it with Germany so that the point that has already been mentioned here about cooperation between inspections of countries...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u41	... is being secured, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u42	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u43	Mr President, thank you very much. We are discussing the working situation of truck drivers today. We all know the examples of Dutch parking places where it is visible in many cases that the working situation is far from optimal. Opening up the Dutch labour market to migrant workers from EU Member States, especially from Eastern Europe, is an important factor in unfair competition and exploitation. If we want to solve these problems, this cabinet should not hide behind Brussels rules, but should tackle this problem at national level. Mr. Chairman. It's already been about the cabin today. The PVV believes that truck drivers should be able to stay in their cabin during the week and that they should be able to do so voluntarily and safely. And so the nuisance in these parking lots, especially by East European truck drivers, must also be addressed by the SZW Inspection, by the ILT and the police. Because it can't be that the Dutch drivers have to tape their cabs inside with security strips to protect themselves from a robbery in the night. And it cannot be that Dutch drivers should lie awake because they are afraid that their cargo or fuel will be stolen in the night. And it can't be that Dutch drivers sometimes have to drive hours and hours from parking lot to parking space for a rest break, but that because of the threatening atmosphere of those parking spots, which are more like Eastern European campsites, they have to spend the night alone, without facilities on a deserted industrial site, because Eastern Europeans hold our parking spaces massively occupied. Mr. Chairman. This is daily practice, and it has to stop. That is why it is important that we address it at its core. This also starts with the use of employment permits. We would like employment permits to be introduced in order to stop the influx from Eastern Europe. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u44	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Democracy Forum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u45	Thank you. I am here today to speak for the importance of Dutch drivers, the Dutch transport sector. I didn't come myself that long ago. With driver John and his son Lars we went to North Brabant, Etten-Leur, Rozendaal. I went to the different parking spaces, which have actually become more camping sites, with mobile homes that are also used as trucks. I found it very worrying, also to hear that this driver is now sitting at home with a burn-out, because the workload is getting too high, because by means of shadowy temp constructions and other ways, such as crooked wage structures, Eastern European drivers under the Dutch minimum wage, drivers under the Dutch minimum wage. They not only create road safety, but also put pressure on Dutch workers and the Dutch transport sector. That is a very worrying development. We need to maintain much harder. That's why I'm standing here today, calling on the Minister to do that. We will support all the proposals in this Chamber that bring that closer. We are also very excited to talk about the earlier proposal to work with permits, with new permits in order to have much better control over what is allowed on the Dutch labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u46	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u47	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also thank you for explaining how the device works here! The reason for this debate is clear: there has been wide-ranging concern for a long time about the conditions surrounding drivers and how they have to stay in their truck during the weekend. This leads to degrading conditions that we have all found in different parking spaces. So there's every reason to take enforcement now. The ruling of the European Court of Justice provides the basis for this. I am also very satisfied with the fact that we can now do so. Because it does indeed lead to bad conditions for drivers, but also for other users of the parking spaces and it even leads to traffic unsafe situations here and there, because you often see in the border areas that where in Germany and Belgium were already maintained and not with us, you got a kind of waterbed effect, so that everyone went to use our parking spaces for that in Holland, both from Germany and Belgium. These were so full that even on the escape lane there was parked near the highways themselves. So it is also important for road safety that we limit this. I share the opinion of the people who have said that being a trucker is a good job. Mr Ulenbelt has been mentioned a number of times. I, too, once had the pleasure of going to the Truckstar Festival with him. Well, if you see anywhere how beautiful the profession of trucker is and how proud people can be about that, it's there. I liked that very much back then. A lot of Members have asked questions about how to maintain. A question has been asked about targeted actions. Well, the ILT's gonna look there, of course. You start by determining where the nuisance is most likely to be. Of course, we are not going to announce where we are going to do what, because that is not how it works with enforcement. 'Cause you're supposed to catch people red-handed. You gonna lie down in the bushes? Well, I don't think that's necessary, because the ILT already has a pretty good picture where it's most likely that you'll notice violations. That is what we mean by targeted actions: we are really going to see where the problems are most. We are explicitly going to work together with other European partners. We learn from each other, of course. In Belgium and Germany they already have more experience. Then I'll take what some of you have noticed about the Mobility Package. Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether the Netherlands would support this ban of its own free will. We are certainly going to do that, because I think it is important to prevent a waterbed effect as we have now experienced. Equal monks, equal hoods, we draw a single line across Europe, so that it is clear to every transport operator that you do not deal with your drivers in this way and that it is simply not allowed throughout Europe. In any case, we are leading the way in Europe. Before I got this job I didn't have on the retina that there is a Euro Contrôle Route group. This is an organisation in which European transport inspection services work together to improve road safety, sustainability, fair competition and working conditions in road transport through enforcement. This cooperation has been in place since 1990 and was endorsed for the first, including by ministers in 1999. It's got 14 members in it. Apart from the Netherlands, these are Belgium, Luxembourg, the UK, Ireland, Germany, France, Austria, Poland, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia and Lithuania. And what's the beauty now? The Netherlands is a leader in that ECR. The ILT is therefore also an important participant. This ECR will move its headquarters from Brussels to Rijswijk in 2018. That's where it gets the status of European Grouping of Territorial Cooperation. So we might get even more influence when the head office is in the Netherlands. So we can make use of the knowledge, skills and experience of all those inspections carried out by the other participating countries. So we're going to look at different things. We look not only at the question of how to maintain, but also at the fines. Several of you have also asked questions about this in the sense of "what's the matter?" I say first of all in the direction of Mr Van Dijk that it is the intention that the fines should be paid to the drivers, but that they should have been paid by the employer. The driver is the one who gets the fine handed over, but of course it is the employer who has the responsibility to take care of a decent weekend rest for the driver and who therefore also has to pay these fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u49	I welcome that answer and I think my colleagues too. Suppose there are four trucks from one client in one parking lot and all four drivers appear to have had to sleep there that weekend from their boss. Will the transporter be fined four times €1,500 or is that different? I'm just trying to figure out how that works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u50	On a case-by-case basis, the fine of €1,500 will be imposed. So if four drivers are wrong to do that long resting in their cabin, then the employer can face four fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u51	Why not choose to go directly to the employer in such a case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u52	The Secretary of State may say something about this later, but of course we work very well together. The ILT is active along the road and in the parking spaces and the Inspection SZW, of course, also keeps an eye on the companies. Whatever signals we have over and over again that this is being used by certain companies, we will, of course, exchange this information very well. If fines to company x or company y are continuously handed out, we will of course pass them on. Then the Inspection SZW at that company itself will want to thoroughly examine things, I can imagine. So in that sense, there is good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u53	I'm asking that question for the following reason. You then give that fine to the driver, but at the same time it is said: no, that driver does not have to pay the fine, because that has to be paid by the employer. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u54	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u55	Then I wonder why they don't just go straight to that employer. Why am I asking? 'Cause on the one hand, I get that you're saying to the driver, "listen, this isn't supposed to happen." Then you can also check where the driver's responsibility lies at the same time, so that's good. If those people do something they can't do, you can do it right away. But when it comes to exploitation and things that don't belong, you have to talk to that employer. My question to the Minister is therefore: why is it that when things happen on weekends that are not allowed under current regulations, it is not chosen to give the person responsible the penalty immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u56	Well, for the simple reason that you must of course first establish that offense. So you have to, so to speak, ask the driver first who he's actually working for. The driver can then pass the fine on to the employer, because that driver is not personally liable for it. That's really on the employer's account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u57	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u58	Why I ask is because an employee who is employed also has a responsibility, namely to issue a fine to his employer. I can partly imagine that, but on the other hand, we must also keep the importance of workers high. I wonder whether it would not be much wiser to have the person who is ultimately responsible, the one who also wants to deal with the minister, namely the employer, to be fined in such a case, so that the responsibility lies there. As an inspection, you address the driver, but you give the fine to the person who has to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u59	That's how it's gonna work. That employer has to pay, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u60	Will the Minister also be aware of the fines?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u61	I was just getting ready for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u62	I'll just wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u63	A fine of €1,500 has now been chosen, which seems proportional within the fine system we know in the Netherlands. The amounts are very variable in Europe. There are also countries where the fine is still at zero. I suggest we first look at the effectiveness of this. We are also discussing this in a European context with the other enforcement bodies. If it turns out that our amount is too low and that there is a new waterbed effect, we will of course look at it. But this seems to be a proportional amount. This is what we are going to do first and then we are going to monitor whether it is indeed an effective amount or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u64	Please continue. Mr. Jasper van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u65	Is this the block about the fines?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u66	Yeah, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u67	I would like to ask the Minister to respond to the broadcast of EenVandaag in which a company that had committed some EUR 1 million in offences was shown. I have the policy on fines in front of me. There is a reduction bonus on bad behavior, so the fine can be up to €82,000. So while 1 million of offences have been committed, only 82,000 euros of fines can be imposed. That's a joke, say the people involved. Do you know these rules and would you like to look at them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u68	Of course, this is not the case with these fines, because we are only about to begin with this. We must first monitor the effectiveness of this fine of €1,500. Whatever else is involved in fines, I'd like to leave out of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u69	But I would have asked for it in my input. Yesterday there was a broadcast of Oneday. The Brinkman case was cited. That is the transport company where, as I said, 1 million fines were paid. But the rules explain that it can only be up to €82,000. Would you like to look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u70	I think we should do this in conjunction with the Ministry of Social Affairs. We share the goal that the evil ones are properly addressed and that this must be effective. Let us look at this together in consultation, because that is what we ultimately want to get out of. If that means that only a certain amount of money can be imposed which makes it no longer effective, which makes the company think, "Well, I can have that fine, so I will continue with these practices," that is not exactly what we are aiming for. In that light, of course, we will see whether improvements are necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u71	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u72	Well, fine. So the Minister is now committed to taking a good look at that. We should register this as well as the Chamber, because I would like to be informed about it, preferably in the short term, within a month, for example. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u73	I am not going to commit myself at a time, because we have to look at this equally closely with both ministries, but you can be assured that we naturally want our system of fines as a whole to be effective and that companies are not going to show calculative behavior under the guise of 'we can have these fines, so we are not adjusting our behavior'. But I also heard the discussion between you and Mr Heerma earlier. It's fairly complex, because you don't want a company that accidentally does something wrong to end up in a bankruptcy scenario at once. So let's look at what that whole system is like. In itself, this fine of €1,500 that we are about to introduce does not suddenly put all this in a completely different light.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u74	I welcome the Minister's commitment to look at effectiveness, but this fine is much lower than that in Belgium, for example. Do you agree with me that we should avoid being another kind of escape route for malicious employers in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u75	If this phenomenon should occur, if the Netherlands were to be chosen again if we wanted to break the law because our fines would be too low, we would certainly change our fines accordingly. But I'd like to check that out first. Each country determines the level of fines itself, because you look at your own circumstances and your entire system of fines. I would also like to keep that freedom in the Netherlands, but I agree with you. If it turns out that it is too low and that it is not effective, then we will, of course, change it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u76	Continue
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u77	Then there was a request for the secure parking lots. Motions on this were also passed in the Chamber. People must also be able to park their truck safely and the cargo must also be safe. That's what we're working hard on at the Ministry. We're looking at what's private or not possible from the government. It is then a question of "what grounds do we still have?" And "where else could new secure parking spaces be located?'. After all, you have to take good care of that, because if the truck or the load is not safe, then the driver does not dare to leave his truck to spend the night somewhere, whether in a hotel or a guest house or anywhere else. Several speakers have already pointed it out: that is not something you suddenly manage with a magic wand. But we are seriously looking at how we can maximise the availability of good facilities for drivers. Just sleep in a cabin, the shorter rest, so still is allowed. This ban really looks forward to that longer weekend sleep. Finally, I have a specific question on the capacity of the ILT. Let me get the numbers. For the enforcement of road freight legislation, which is simply part of it, there are 18 fte for road freight inspectors, 20 fte for inspectors for business and administrative checks, 3 fte for system monitoring auditors and covenants and 5 fte for inspectors specifically for road transport inspections of dangerous substances, which is, of course, always a special category. The Inspection SZW will soon be discussing how this aspect can be taken into account in the company controls, as this is something new that we are going to maintain. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, I have dealt with these questions and I am done answering them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u78	I have also said in my speech that I think the current proposals are rather shaky. "Some targeted actions" is what the Minister proposes. The ILT and the union themselves say that more people are needed and that actions should not take place in a few places but in all places. Is the Minister prepared to look at enlargement? She just read us a list of the number of FTEs we have, but is there going to be an extension? Can I trust that enforcement will be improved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u79	Enforcement in this area is new, so let's first see how it works in practice and how effective it is. It's not easy either. That is why we are working very well together with the Belgians, the Germans and the French, who have been maintaining them for a long time. You have to give it a chance first. Let us first see how it develops and whether this enforcement is effective. If improvements are needed either in the process or in the deployment of numbers of people, then we will see. I think it's too early now, because they still have to start, so let's see how it works out in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u80	I would also like to hear the Minister on the point raised in my speech on a licensing system. Is the Minister prepared to think about this, to be informed about it or to take it with him even as a possible policy proposal? This means that you need a certain permit to work on the Dutch market, precisely in order to better protect the Dutch transport sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u81	Mr President, I would very much like to make way for the Secretary of State, because this issue is in the policy area of her ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u82	I can't wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u83	Again, this has been dealt with vigorously by the cabinet. I'm very happy about that. I have one question. The Minister says: let me start with the new enforcement and then I will see if I can manage with the people we have; there is a lot of cooperation with SZW in this area. I'm assuming that's what's being looked at. I can assume that we will hear it soon if there is a problem with capacity. It's always annoying when you hear a year after that there was hardly any maintenance because there was no staff unexpectedly. If I understand the Minister correctly, there is no reason to fear that, but I assume she will keep us informed not only of what the inspections are doing and how it works, but also of the bottlenecks. So sometime after six months an interim report might not be a crazy idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u84	If we could gradually find that one or two people could suddenly do a lot better, I will of course come back to that. Let's get started first and see how it develops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u85	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u86	Thank you, Mr President. I have a number of additional questions in the area of Social Affairs and Employment, particularly on the inspection. The Department of Social Affairs and Employment and the Inspectorate of Environment and Transport, of the Ministry of IenW, have both been designated as supervisors of the Working Time Act. Both inspections are therefore responsible for verifying compliance with the Working Time Act in all sectors, including road transport. It might be good to say something about this division of labour. The Inspection SZW and the ILT have agreed that the ILT will monitor and enforce the Working Time Act in road transport wherever necessary. This indeed means that it is up to the ILT to check for long rest in cabins from January 2018 and to impose fines where necessary. Given these agreements with the ILT, the Inspection SZW operates in the background and controls the Inspection SZW in road transport primarily for laws and regulations other than the Working Time Act. However, if the SZW Inspection detects an infringement of the rules on rest periods in the context of the Arbowet or the Foreign Labour Act, it will maintain it in consultation with the ILT.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u87	I have a question for the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. What about the legal status of an employee who receives a fine for his employer, but does not pass the fine on for any reason, for example because he loses it, loses it in his cabin or in a parking lot, or whatever? Then the employer gets the fine too late or not at all, and there comes a reminder of payment or something like that. What is the employee's position at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u88	In my view, it depends on the decision on the fine who is the recipient of the fine. If that is the employer, then the employer is responsible. Well, then, of course, you make appointments. Of course, it can always happen that a fine is lost, but you also make agreements about it, because it has to be paid within the time limit. However, as the Minister has just indicated, the fine is awarded to the driver, but it is intended for the employer. It is therefore also the employer who will receive the fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u89	But that employer is therefore dependent on his employee. The employee is not the person who imposes the fine on his employer; that is the person who at that time gives the fine. My problem is here: I am in favour of the employer being caught if he does something that can't be done, but it can't be that the employee is the one who has to pass the fine? In other words, I am concerned that an employer will say: yes but dear friends, my employee did not give it to me, so how could I know? So he gets a position vis-à-vis his employee who is not in favour of that employee. Is that under consideration? Otherwise, could you please send a note to the Chamber explaining it clearly again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u90	I will also really check it as well for the second term, but as far as I know the employee gets a notification at the time the infringement is detected, but eventually the acceptance giro pops up with the employer on the mat. This is of course the case in several places. That goes through the CJIB; I'm getting information about that now. So it goes to the employer. Even if the employee does not pass on the information, the employer still receives the acceptancegiro.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u91	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u92	Thank you very much. This ensures that the employer gets what he apparently deserves at the time: a fine for something he should not have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u93	That's right. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u94	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u95	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to refer to the priority statement, which has been asked a number of questions. The Inspection SZW is now operating on the basis of a multiannual plan. That applies until 2018. Part of this is also a multi-annual programme Transport and Logistics. On this basis, the Inspection SZW in the transport sector is mainly responsible for ensuring fair work and in particular the risks of underpayment, illegal employment and labour exploitation. The ILT has developed the transport component in its own multi-annual plan. This will ensure, among other things, safety and the maintenance of driving and rest periods. At the moment, my inspection is working on a multi-annual plan 2019-2022. It also takes into account the latest developments concerning rest periods in truck booths. It is, of course, the case that the Minister has already indicated that ongoing multiannual plans can be adjusted, where necessary, in relation to the control of rest periods in lorries' cabins. This is done, among other things, on the basis of risk analyses. Then a number of questions have been asked about the internal market. Here's what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u96	Before you proceed, Mr Heerma has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u97	My question is indeed about the previous point. It actually has two sides. Because, yes, there is cooperation between the two inspection services, but we have been having discussions for a long time about bogus structures and exploitation in the transport sector. These are precisely the subjects for which additional funding for the SZW inspection was also made available in the coalition agreement. Does the Secretary of State share the view that the Inspection SZW also has a role to play in enforcement, especially when it comes to this type of construction, including in the transport sector? And does she also share the view that this was the subject of the debate with Mr Van Dijk, that when there are deliberately and knowingly fake structures, because this creates a great deal of competitive advantage at the expense of bona fide companies and employees, those fines must be such that those companies feel that it is no longer worth doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u98	Sure. Fair, healthy and safe are indeed the priorities linked to the increase in the budget of the Inspection SZW. It is also good to point out that we have also exchanged this in the budget and in the general discussion, and that we are also going to discuss the balancing framework here in the Chamber. Then it's in the allocation of the programs, for example, because it reflects the priority. A very important consideration, mentioned by Mr Heerma, is that your bona fide organizations and companies are indeed lagging behind if you can do cheaper work with constructions. That is a huge motivation to work very firmly with this subject and to stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u99	Is there a good look at the following? We talked about this at the hotel cleaning and now at the transport. These constructs sometimes produce a tens of percent lower cost. It's competitive. In that context, is the government and enforcement carefully considered, or in those specific cases, I am not asking you to go into an individual case, if the fines are enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u100	The fines are also fixed. They're heavy fines. I went on a round of inspections the other day. They are indeed heavy fines, because it simply should not pay. If the fines are calculated and they are still cheaper, that is not good. It is therefore a very important issue and I will ensure that this has a solid place in the multiannual programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u101	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u102	Mr. Chairman. I come to the internal market in general. It is important that there is equal pay for equal work in the same place. So the internal market that we have with European cooperation means that everyone must be able to work anywhere, but in a fair, healthy and safe way. That is maintained. In March there will be a debate with the Minister for Social Affairs, who has European rules in his portfolio. Then the Chamber can talk to him about this. A specific question has been asked about employment permits. I would like to comment on that. I'm looking for the question, in my desire for completeness. Within the European Union there is free movement of workers and therefore there is no system of work permits. But employers must already apply for a permit for migrant workers from outside the European Union. It is generally refused if there is work available in the Netherlands or in the European Union for the work in question. I agree with Mr Van Dijk that a large group of people are still on the sidelines in the Netherlands. We have had an exchange of views on this matter before. It is very important to make use of this workforce as the labour market becomes tighter. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u103	I see the latter as encouraging. But I also asked you how you feel about the fact that there are companies with phony constructions. I named the driver Mihai, from Nieuwsuur. That's just a Romanian. He has a transport company registered in Romania, but he actually works in the Netherlands. That is therefore false competition and evasion of Dutch laws and regulations. What are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u104	I have indicated that work within the European Union must be done in a fair, healthy and safe way. That's what the government thinks. There are all kinds of discussions taking place with the Minister for Social Affairs. The next opportunity to discuss this is March.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u105	I am happy to do that with the Minister, but I would like to hear from this Secretary of State that she agrees with us that drivers who work mainly in the Netherlands should simply have Dutch employment contracts. Do you share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u106	I think it is of the utmost importance that work be done in a fair manner, that false constructions be avoided and that there should be firm enforcement. I'd love to do that with the inspection. It is also the reason why I am very pleased with the enlargement of the government agreement on priorities and finances, because this remains a very important task.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u107	No yes and no no, huh? There can't be a laugh, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u108	Is that a question? Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u109	Well, no, but Jasper van Dijk is asking a very clear question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u110	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u111	...and you say yes or no. That's kind of lame, isn't it? So I actually want to ask Jasper van Dijk's question one more time. Do you think these people should have a Dutch contract of employment or not? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u112	I think it is important that work within Europe is done in a fair, healthy and safe way. I'm standing here under my responsibility for inspection. I would also like to monitor this with the inspection. The rules for this are made in Europe, among others. The next place to be discussed by the Minister for Social Affairs is in Europe and before that in a general discussion where the Chamber can exchange views with him. I would very much like to see the inspection carried out to ensure that it is complied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u113	So the answer is no. The answer is no. You do not think it should be a Dutch contract in principle. You only think that the conditions should be harmonised. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u114	We have an internal market with free movement of persons and goods. That must be done in an honest way, and that is what I am standing here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u115	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u116	What is the position of the Secretary of State with regard to the idea of using a licensing system to better control the drivers who work or are employed in the Netherlands and so to be better able to monitor in advance, i.e. preventively, whether or not the company they work for complies with all kinds of rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u117	Work permits are currently also needed for people from outside the European Union. We see in practice that they are hardly granted, because they are only granted if there are no people in the Netherlands or in the European Union who could work here. So work permits for people from outside the European Union are already not granted. I also think that is a good thing, because there are still a lot of people in the Netherlands who are on the sidelines that we would like to have at work. The internal market is a great asset. We are very much in favour of this. So I certainly wouldn't want any work permits. However, I believe that we must combat the excesses that we see in practice. That is why I would point out that the next option is in March.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u118	Thank you. Let's move on to the second term. Oh, Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u119	I find this very interesting. I tabled a motion during the budget procedure to re-introduce the employment permits to ensure that you protect the labour market and also the Dutch truck drivers. What would be the problem if the Secretary of State and the Cabinet were to do that? They should simply take advantage of the PVV's tool, the hand-out of the PVV, to say: yes, it is important that employment permits are introduced, so that we protect Dutch drivers and our Dutch labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u120	We are now talking about the "work permit" instrument. I have indicated that we do not and will not do so in the context of the free movement of persons and goods. I don't think it's desirable either. But I think that Mr De Jong's underlying question is very relevant, namely: how can you offer protection against excrement? That's exactly why I like being here today. In fact, I would like to indicate what we are doing with the inspection to combat those excesses. That is why it is important that we agree that the principles are fair, healthy and safe. So I'd rather talk about that. Because even if we don't find each other in the instrument, I still think we can find each other on the underlying question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u121	Finally, because this is a repetition of previous questions. I don't see any new insights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u122	No, but I always hope, Mr. Chairman. Certainly in the interests of the Dutch truck driver, I will continue to do so until the end of this debate and also in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u123	Then you will have the opportunity to ask a final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u124	What's the interesting thing? The Secretary of State insists on the story of the free movement of goods and persons. We say that you can also simply choose to see the Dutch labour market as leading and to use the principle of better prevention than cure when it comes to all those things that the Secretary of State sees as excesses. So again, please consider this. I have tabled a motion to that effect. It's a good idea to do that. And please take the interest of the Dutch truck driver just a little more to heart than having the free movement of goods and persons.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u125	As has just been exchanged in the debate with Mr Heerma, a very important consideration for enforcement by the inspection is precisely that bona fide companies should be able to do their job. We must therefore maintain where it is not fair, not healthy and not safe. That is a very important motivation and that is why I maintain my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u126	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk. Speaking time is one minute, Mr. Jasper van Dijk, including tabling motions. This time I'm gonna watch that very closely. I'd start with the motions right away, because I see you have a pile with you. I call Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u127	Mr. Chairman. I am going to call Mr Ulenbelt later because he has been mentioned very often, and rightly so. And it's very good you haven't turned on my clock yet; yes, now it's running. I'm gonna read my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government intends to maintain the weekend rest for truck drivers only through "some targeted actions";]] [[calls on the government to maintain structuralally at all relevant places on the weekend rest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Inspection Environment and Transport has insufficient capacity to maintain adequately on the mandatory 45 hours weekend rest;]] [[calls on the Government to increase the capacity of the Inspection Environment and Transport in such a way as to allow adequate enforcement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34734-21]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34734-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u128	I've got 20 seconds. I'm gonna make it. The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current fines for transport companies do not impress very much in the event of a breach of weekend rest;]] [[calls on the Government to substantially increase the fines for this type of infringement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34734-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u129	The explanation I would have liked to give, I'll put it on my Facebook page.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u130	I don't follow you, but thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u131	We could be friends, couldn't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u132	We're already friends. I give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors very much for answering the questions and their response. I have two motions to tighten up a number of things, despite the commitments. My first motion concerns long stays in parking spaces and the fine for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas truck drivers often spend weekends in parking spaces in the Netherlands and this leads to undesirable and inhuman situations;]] [[noting that, like neighbouring countries, the Inspection on Environment and Transport (ILT) will enforce the rules on driving and rest periods and impose a fine of €1,500 on the employer in the event of an infringement;]] [[Whereas the Minister states that there should be no waterbed effect, whereby drivers spend weekends in a parking lot in the Netherlands because staying here is more attractive than in neighbouring countries;]] [[calls on the government to engage in talks with neighbouring countries on both fines policy and enforcement practice, with the aim of ensuring that the fine and the chance of taking action in the Netherlands are in line with those in neighbouring countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Özütok, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Wiersma, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34734-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u134	And my second motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u135	No, I can't. I'm so sorry. You will then have to submit that motion to another debate. I'm very strict today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u136	Then I'm glad I chose the first variant. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u137	Mr Van Weyenberg says he can give some speaking time to Mrs Özütok, but he knows it does not work that way. Now Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u138	The chairman is very strict today, so I'm going to be brief. I would like to thank the directors for their reply. The Secretary of State refers to the multi-annual plan, which will return to tackling the bogus constructions and cooperation with ILT. I think that's very good, because we really need to deal with these phony constructions. The question is whether the fines in these cases are sufficient to break the earning model. This is partly the case; it is therefore very good to maintain it. But it's also up to the fines. My question is when do we get this plan? I think it has been discussed in an earlier AO, but when can we discuss it, including the question of whether the fines in the case of dummy constructions are high enough? I have co-signed the motion by GroenLinks, which is widely supported. I understand the Minister's answer that the differences in Europe are large. The Minister has also discussed the waterbed effect on several occasions. That is why cooperation with the countries around us to harmonise this is a good thing. I think it is a good motion by GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u139	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u140	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank both directors for the answer. I trust that in the right alignment, even when it comes to the extra capacity against false constructions, there will be good consultation on where these people can deliver the most added value. The transport is in this area, and I agree with the two leaders that it is certainly a sector that requires permanent attention. The rules are now clear and enforcement must begin. If there are any capacity problems, we'll find out, the Minister said. I would even like to receive some kind of progress report on what the experiences with enforcement are. Let me take a look at the Minister and the Secretary of State, which might be a good time for that. I'd like that. I was enthusiastically involved in the Green Left motion; in fact, the whole Chamber did. We want to prevent us from remaining the escape hill in the vein of "go to the Netherlands for a while; then you have the least chance to get caught on the weekends and then the fines are the lowest." I'll wait it out with interest. I wish the people who are going to enforce it every success. It's a complicated burden of proof, and I really hope we're going to make a difference here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u141	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got one minute, haven't I? Through the e-mail I have already been offered a job, at least the invitation to a conversation in the transport sector. I'll still have to get my big driver's license, though, when I'm gonna want to stay here for a while. Maybe later, someday. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Dutch companies set up letterbox companies in Eastern Europe to avoid Dutch working conditions;]] [[whereas it makes Eastern European workers underpaid and leads to unfair competition between European workers;]] [[Whereas Belgium intends to address the use of letterbox companies in Eastern European countries to combat social dumping in transport by requiring a company to carry out at least 25% of its activities in the country where it was established;]] [[calls on the Government to identify whether and how, according to Belgian example, letterbox companies can be tackled to combat exploitation in the transport sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Özütok and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34734-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u143	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the directors for the answers, and I am very much in agreement with the questions that have been raised here about the progress of enforcement. I think it's important that we maintain and keep an eye out for things to go well. I can't wait to see how these fines will work in the near future. In this context, I referred to existing cooperation in the first period. We have signed Mrs Özütok's motion to talk to the neighbouring countries. In addition, I say that we are already working together. So the conversation is not just a conversation, but actually cooperation. I wonder whether we can be kept informed of how this cooperation is progressing and whether we can work together on these challenges and whether we can improve on them. In addition to progress in enforcement, we also want to be kept informed of the way in which cooperation with neighbouring countries is proceeding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u144	Thank you. Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u145	Mr President, thank you very much. I just don't understand. You can see what kind of abuses are taking place in those parking spaces. You can see what an effect it has on Dutch truck drivers that people from Eastern Europe are working here as a truck driver on the labour market. I just don't understand. During the budget debate, I have already tabled a motion on this: do something about it. One of the things you could do to start with is to enter an employment permit. I'm gonna file another motion anyway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to introduce employment permits for foreign workers in the interests of Dutch truck drivers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34734-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u146	I really hope that the cabinet will take this signal to heart, because the importance of Dutch drivers should be put forward many times more than by an idea around the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u147	Finally, Mr Baudet. No? I'll take a look around. We're gonna suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u148	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The first motion in part No. 21 by Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Özütok. We had described that we were going to maintain with some targeted actions. Of course, it's always the question of what exactly you mean by those words. If you say you want to explain it if it happens in all the relevant places and also in structural terms, then I am totally fine with that. I can therefore give this motion a ruling, Chamber, if you need a clarification with those words, because that is, of course, what we meant. Targeted actions means doing it where it's necessary. It is certainly intended that we will always do it in future, so it is structural. "Some" is also a stretchy concept. We certainly did not expect it to be just a few. I can totally live with giving this motion judgment chamber. The motion in part No. 22 also belongs to Mr Van Dijk. Neighbor and neighbor, I'd almost say. Excuse me, excuse me! You ask for the ILT to be extended in such a way as to allow adequate enforcement. I advise against this motion, because I already assume that we are going to maintain it adequately. If in practice it turns out that it isn't, I'd be happy to come back to you. We're just gonna try it first. The same applies to the motion in part No. 23. It calls for substantial increases in fines for such infringements. Once again, I would like to see whether we have an effective enforcement policy with the current amount. Again, I will return to you if it turns out in practice that the amount is too low. I'd like to start with this amount and see if it's enough. Then I come to the motion on part No. 24. It has been widely supported by the Chamber and invites us to discuss both fine policy and enforcement practice with neighbouring countries. I would very much like to give Court judgment to that, because I think it is very sensible. Within the framework of the Mobility Package, I will be happy to discuss this with the European colleagues. I have also indicated that the Eurocontrol Group is coming to Rijswijk, where the enforcement authorities sit together at the table. In this context, too, I would very much like to see how we can shape this in the most effective way. I think they were. Let's see, did I have one more question? Yes, there was another question asked by Mr Van Weyenberg. How are we kept informed as a chamber about this effectiveness and everything that goes on around this file? As part of the Mobility Package, the Bulgarian Presidency intends to do business at the Transport Council in June. We have a general consultation on this in May Transport Council. On that occasion, I would like to inform you of the outcome of the discussions with European colleagues so far. Of course, there is also an ILT annual report which will be followed by the precise figures to the Chamber. I think I've answered everything now, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u150	Thank you. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u151	Thank you, Mr President. I have two motions to respond to. Mrs Özütok's motion and Mr Van Dijk's motion for a resolution 25 on the letterbox companies. That is, of course, a subject that has a great scope and, as far as I am concerned and as far as I am concerned, that scope is wider than the scope I have been able to cover in this debate. I would therefore like to ask the author whether she would like to continue the motion and discuss it with the Minister in advance of European decision-making. Then an embedded cabinet response can also be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u152	I think it is a motion by Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u153	Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u154	Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When exactly is this decision-making? I'm willing to hold the motion, but I'd like some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u156	I do see one by the name of Mr Gijs van Dijk. That's March. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 26. We have also just had a brief debate about the fact that we are all fighting for the interests of Dutch workers, in this case his motion: the Dutch truck drivers. But the introduction of employment permits I advise against, and with that I also advise against the motion. I have another question from Mr Heerma. That plan will come in the fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-10.u157	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate. We will vote on the motions tabled next week. I would like to thank the directors and Members of Parliament and suspend the sitting until 5 p.m.
