ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security, the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations and the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. I give the floor to Mr Koerhuis on behalf of the VVD as the first speaker. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u2	Almost eight weeks ago, a group of processed asylum seekers decided to move free of charge into other people's homes. The misery that follows is indescribable. That your house can be cracked while you're in the shower: incomprehensible. That crackling scum can take over a neighborhood and even hold press conferences about it: incomprehensible. That a left-wing city council decides to tolerate a crime and put itself above the law: incomprehensible and unacceptable. I just can't believe that in our capital people aren't safe in their own homes. Mr. Chairman. Kraken is forbidden by law and the law simply needs to be enforced. The VVD therefore wants two things. Firstly, this situation must be brought to an end. Secondly, together we must ensure that cracking is not tolerated anywhere in this country; not for a day, not for a week and certainly not for eight weeks. To put an end to this tragedy in Amsterdam-Oost, I appeal to the Minister of the Interior. The left-wing Amsterdam city council has adopted a motion to prevent enforcement of the anti-cracking law. The Republic of Amsterdam does not exist. The municipality of Amsterdam is simply a Dutch municipality where the Dutch law applies. Surely it cannot be that Amsterdam has decided to implement this motion and prevent the enforcement of the anti-cracking law? This decision is against the law. It makes sure that now and in the future cracks are apparently allowed in Amsterdam. I ask the Minister if she is prepared to destroy this college decision on behalf of the Crown. Amsterdam is now considering housing the squatters group for €1,500 per squatter per month in a former prison in Amsterdam-Zuid. That's an absurd amount. Amsterdam not only rewards bad behavior, but also rewards a crime. I would therefore ask the Minister whether she is prepared, on behalf of the Crown, to destroy this College decision if it is taken. I would also like to know from the Minister what means it has to remove this group of squatters in Amsterdam-East as soon as possible, of course, with due regard for the court ruling. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to another point. The judge ruled on this case and said that the squatters could stay here for eight weeks. That's until June 1st. That means that a house can be cracked for eight weeks each time, that someone else's house can be broken into and that you can sit for eight weeks each time. Free living at the expense of the owner. Free living at the expense of the social tenant. Free living at the expense of the taxpayer. And no one intervenes. It's unbelievable, isn't it? Left-wing parties always say to stand up for the social tenant, but when it comes to it, these parties just threaten to leave the squatters in the social rent and just leave the social tenants out on the street. The anti-cracking law is a law of the VVD and the CDA. As far as we're concerned, we're going to tighten up this law. Those eight weeks should not be able and crack should be assimilated to burglary. Is the Minister prepared to tighten up the anti-cracking laws? Mr. Chairman. The answer to our written questions shows that 66 cases were received by the D.A. in 2017, but there is no overview of the municipalities from which these cases were received. Is the Minister still willing to make that statement and send it to the Chamber? Mr President, I will conclude. In 2010 this Chamber passed the Law Cracking and Void by a large majority. A wonderful initiative by members Ten Hoopen, Slob and Van der Burg, which prohibited cracking in the Netherlands. You're right, because you don't touch anyone else's house. I'm afraid this law is apparently not being enforced. I would once again urge the Minister to put an end to this situation as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u3	Does Mr Koerhuis share my opinion that that left-wing city council you are talking about is run by a college containing the VVD, that the city is run by a mayor with the VVD membership and that this is a case of outlawed asylum seekers who are not expelled under the rule of a VVD Secretary of State? Do you share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u4	The city of Amsterdam is indeed run by a left-wing city council. That is why I have requested this debate for today. And that's why I'm asking the Minister to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u5	Strong words, muscle language, fantastic, but you aim them at your own party! So your own party is failing. You're very angry with the VVDs in that college and the VVD mayor. And here is the VVD Secretary of State who does not succeed in expelling those asylum seekers you are so angry about. Do you recognize that your own party is failing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u6	Unfortunately, I'll help you out of a dream. The VVD does not have the majority in the city council and not the majority in the college. It's a left-wing city council over there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u7	I am somewhat surprised at the huge amount of nonsense that is being said here. It's like all the law goes right up here all of a sudden. There is a law and the judge has ruled that there was no need for an emergency evacuation, because there was no major disturbance of public order. However, it has been decided that the premises should be abandoned after eight weeks. Everything went well, and you're standing here breeching like the Republic is coming down here and you hate it all. It's all been done neatly by the rules, hasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u8	It didn't go well by the rules at all. Social rentals You say you stand for this as a left-wing party For almost eight weeks now a group of squatters have been squatting and you leave those social tenants on the street. The rules are not followed at all in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u9	Then I will read you from the report of the Amsterdam City Council. Mr Van Aartsen, from VVD-huis, says: "Let me say one thing in advance. The cracked houses in Rudolf Dieselstraat were empty houses that were not in use at the time of the squat. There were two miscarriages and the rest were long-term empty houses." Is the VVD in favour of emptying? That is the question I would like to ask you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u10	The VVD is in favour of maintaining the anti-kraakwet, in the Netherlands and also in Amsterdam. Those homes do need to be evacuated. The social tenants have to go in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u11	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u12	Is the VVD prepared to evacuate homes and then leave them empty? Suppose someone doesn't have plans for it, because Ymere didn't unfold the plans until later. Are you in favour of evacuating homes for vacant?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u13	These are couple-this questions and ask-that questions. No, I want those apartments evacuated now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u14	Quite right, but I still have a supplementary question to the VVD. Mr Koerhuis rightly pointed out that it is a problem that €1,500 per asylum seeker is now looking for accommodation. Shouldn't we also ask the Secretary of State if he fears that the asylum seekers who are now looking in other countries at how miserable they are, as in the camps on the Seine, are considering coming to Amsterdam, where there are already so many problems, to get a house here, because the city council pays it here? Shouldn't we ask the Secretary of State, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u15	I ask the government, ministers and state secretarys to enforce the anti-cracking law to expel these squatters. I would also ask, of course, to counter the aspirant effect that it assumes, in order to avoid other groups of squatters coming to Amsterdam as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u16	As we always only have four minutes of speaking time, I thought it was important to give this aspect to the Secretary of State very clearly. This was a nice way to do that, I say honestly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u17	Yeah, I got it. Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u18	Mr Koerhuis is, of course, quite right that this is a terrible course of action. But the VVD has to put their hands into its own bosom. In Amsterdam we have a VVD alderman who said: the more asylum seekers, the better. We have a VVD mayor in Amsterdam who refuses to act against the aggression of these squatting illegals. And here is a VVD Secretary of State for Justice and Security who also leaves these illegals alone, refusing to enforce the Foreigner's Act. Then we have a VVD prime minister who doesn't do anything. Why is Mr Koerhuis acting like a pyromaniac calling the fire department himself? The VVD is at the root of all these problems. It would adorn Mr Koerhuis to admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u19	I'm standing here as a member of the VVD Chamber. This is not about the mayor in Amsterdam. He's a VVD man, but the mayor in this country is above the parties. I would like to say that he could have chosen otherwise, because he could have chosen to evacuate those houses. It's too bad, but it's no different; we have to live with that. That is why I asked for this debate to be arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u20	I am also pleased with this debate, because I hope that the VVD will finally take action on how to deal with illegal immigrants. Isn't it incredible that these illegals can go their own way and not be detained? The VVD, I keep saying, is a government party. You're a coalition partner, so you're responsible for the fact that nothing happens. People who aren't allowed to be here are free to go, and that's because of the VVD. It would be a pleasure for you to admit it, because then you can also do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u21	I've admitted a little bit about the mayor, but I'm not gonna admit I'm not taking responsibility. I did not ask for this debate for nothing, I asked for this debate to return the houses to social tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u22	Can I make a correction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u23	It's okay. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u24	There is a legal misrepresentation of things. Whether or not to evacuate is not a matter for the mayor, but is a matter for the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u25	I'd like to respond to that. You can evacuate because of public order or because the law is not enforced. Those are two reasons why you can clear out. The mayor could have evacuated because of law and order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u26	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Fritsma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The cabinet makes Dutch foreign policy a real chaos. On the one hand, there are still far too many migrants treated to a residence permit, and on the other hand, those who do not get a residence permit can just stay here. Illegals are unfortunately left alone in the Netherlands. They won't even be dealt with if they crack dozens of houses and buildings for years. This is exactly what the squatters gang We Are Here does. In recent times, their squatter relay reached a sad low. In Amsterdam houses of housing association Ymere were cracked and neighborhood residents were severely terrorized. Even inhabited houses were broken open. The aggression and anarchy have been given free rein and the PVV is very angry about that. The police are standing by and looking at it. The weak mayor of Amsterdam stands there and looks at it. The weak cabinet also excels in laxity and does nothing at all. Mr. Chairman. I want to know how these rioters can just go their own way. Why are these illegals above the law? Kraken is a felony, but in all these years not one illegal squatter has been prosecuted and convicted under the squatting ban. The PVV demands that this change be made and that these rioters are finally punished. These are figures that are not allowed to be in the Netherlands for a long time. They're here illegally, but they don't want to leave the Netherlands. The legal obligation to leave they have, they do nothing about it. The cabinet lets them get away with that too, for years. Why are these illegals not being pulled out of these squats by the foreign police, and then deported to the countries of origin as soon as possible? That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. If some countries of origin do not cooperate in forced expulsion, we still have to secure illegal immigrants until they leave on their own. Because that's always possible. At the moment, illegal policies are simply like weak tolerance policies, and that never solves problems. Everyone knows that It helps, of course, to criminalise illegality and, of course, I call on the cabinet to do so. Finally, the bad role of the municipality of Amsterdam is also important in this problem. A motion has recently been adopted in the city council that calls for the crackling of illegal immigrants to be left alone for the time being, thanks to PvdA, SP, GroenLinks and D66, who prefer to stand up for law-abiding illegals rather than those who are the victims of their misconduct. The mayor of Amsterdam then also sided with the illegals and asked owners of cracked houses to suspend evacuation requests. The person who is thus responsible for public order supports illegal immigrants who brutally disrupt that public order. You're not making it up. Again, the cabinet remained deafeningly silent, while the municipality of Amsterdam, with that support to illegals, severely sabotages the return policy. Why does the Cabinet accept this? Why isn't there a sanction? Why, for example, is Amsterdam not being shortened on the Gemeentefonds? The PVV demands a much harder approach from all municipalities that deliberately undermine the Dutch return policy. I'd like a response. Give these municipalities and the illegals themselves a piece of cake. I can leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u28	Thank you, Mr. Fritsma. I now turn to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u29	Mr. Chairman. "Cracking as anarchist, undemocratically legitimized and arbitrary form of empty position management is unacceptable and does not fit in with this time." These are wise words from Mr Ten Hoopen about ten years ago. He was the initiator of the squatting ban, which indicated very motivated that cracking is a form of self-direction that cannot be tolerated. He managed to get here in the Chamber with the support of VVD, Christenunie, SGP and PVV to get the squatting ban in the law. And where are we now? We are back to square one, because the law must of course be enforced. Granted, the judges and the Public Prosecutor have not made it any easier, because you can't evacuate until the welfare court has had the opportunity to rule on it. So you're gonna have to wait to evacuate. The court has now spoken and decided that the squatters have to leave, but only at the end of May. This shows that the implementation, the enforcement of the squatting ban, incorporated into the law and democratically established, is a joke. That's indigestible for the CDA. Even the police have complained about it and said: the law is not only not enforced, squatters are facilitated. What happens in our capital? Neighborhood residents move away and they don't even dare to shop anymore. A security company has been hired, the police are working overtime there and the squatters, who think they're unassailable, are now given until June to find new accommodation. What do you mean, "new place"? These guys should have left the country by now! It is scandalous and it can be absolutely different, even with the current laws and regulations. Because you don't have to wait. You're cleared for trespassing. Even the amenities court drew that conclusion. A woman was showering when they came into her house. GroenLinks calls that smiling "miscarriage." How does it exist! A violation of her right to home peace, the judge said. In one house, Ymere was even forced to prepare her for ordinary families who belong in this city. Eventually, there was a confrontation. There is no need to wait if there are dangerous situations. And look what happened here. There is no need to wait if there is a breach of law and order and security. Those who have not seen that this is the case have lived under a stone. Soft healers make stinking wounds, and it's sicking all the time in our capital because there's no intervention. The triangle makes it happen. She was not insensitive to the complaints, but eventually the squatters got right. Do you know why it bothers us so much? Because ordinary families in our capital have no place anymore. Houses aren't here, they're priceless. It is here that people who should have left our country for a long time are creaking apartments that cannot be made suitable for people who are entitled to them, ordinary families who keep our cities liveable and who contribute to them. In fact, it's so bad that Ymere has to invest in these homes to make them suitable for the people who are in them now, so that they can then be demolished. That money is being spent on this now, when that money could have been ready to make those homes liveable for families in our capital. The police secretary said it at the time: the police are powerless. With their hands behind their backs, they're watching. We've seen them embarrassed. The police tried to calm things down, but they lost a lot of hours of it, when they should be there for ordinary citizens. The police want to file reports and solve cases. That's what the police are for. I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u30	Yes, but Mrs Buitenweg would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u31	I'd like to give credit for who's due. Mrs Van Toorenburg thought that we had used the term'miscarriage', but it was Mr Van Aartsen who said that there were two errors. That is what I can say to Mrs Van Toorenburg. It was about miscarriage of buildings that were thought to be empty. That was, among other things, the famous case of the lady in the shower. Mrs Van Toorenburg has a lot of big words, as if the social housing is all being squatted by people who have gone to court. Do the facts still matter to Mrs. Van Toorenburg? If the mayor of Amsterdam himself says that it was 47 homes and two business premises that were empty, is that something Mrs Van Toorenburg wants to take as some sort of truth? Or doesn't that impress you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u32	Absolutely not. There were other people there with anti-cracking. They tried to save the place a little bit, to prevent the whole neighborhood from being emptied. There are people who don't even have the guts to run errands anymore. A girl moved because she couldn't go on the street anymore. The fact that we now know not only the term'misdemeanors', but also the term'misdemeanors' indicates how banal it is at the moment. I don't care who made up the term, it's bad enough to laugh when that term is used. It is important that we ensure that the ban on cracking is finally enforced. That's the job of the cabinet. The ban on squatting has been decided in a democratic manner, so that should therefore be maintained, in the interests of ordinary, honourable citizens, families who deserve a place in our cities. They make it liveable, not the illegal squatters who think they can claim their place and take possession of something that is not for them. In concrete terms, therefore, what are the ministers going to do to ensure that the ban on cracking becomes a reality again? For example, they can do this by not allowing the judicial review to have suspensive effect, or by reducing the time limit of eight weeks already banal. When is this We Are Here club gonna get busted? That group has no right of residence in our country. Laws are there to enforce, otherwise we only have lawlessness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u33	The point is that we saw these problems coming from afar. It has been a political decision not to put illegal immigrants in jail so often, but simply to let them go. As Mrs Van Toorenburg knows, the instrument of foreign detention has been severely reduced, because this has been done with the support of the CDA. With the support of the CDA, illegals are not often detained and remain on the streets so that they can crack. To ask a constructive question: does the CDA not regret supporting the reduction of foreign detention? Will the CDA and the PVV ensure that illegal immigrants are detained, and then turn them off?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u34	I do not recognize that we are partly responsible for the removal of foreign detention. The only thing I recognize is that we are doing everything we can to ensure that the detention of aliens can actually take place in the way we want to be with each other. My big concern is that the squatters sitting here now have the time to look for new living space.I understand that the PVV is freaking out, because I do so myself even though they have no right to be in this country at all. In addition, this could have an auspicious effect. All the people who are now in tents in France can think: that's good, we can go to the capital of the Netherlands; we already find that city so interesting because of the drugs, but we also get free living space there. So get out of France, go to the Netherlands!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u35	That is all true, but I would nevertheless like to give Mrs Van Toorenburg a further look at the Acts. Since the Rutte II cabinet, the instrument of foreign detention has been severely reduced, with the support of the CDA, so that illegals are not detained, but can continue to walk freely on the streets and crack houses. Check again, Mrs Van Toorenburg. It is not at all bad that you make mistakes, but it would help if you admitted those mistakes, then make improvements and with the PVV make sure that those illegals are detained so that they can be more easily deported. Now everyone's talking about problems that his or her party itself has caused.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u36	In the previous period, I also did asylum and I did nothing but appeal to the cabinet that it had to come up with much more creative possibilities to put these guys in foreign detention. So it is simply not true what Mr Fritsma is saying. I've wanted nothing but to put them in alien custody, especially when people are misbehaving. If that's not the case with these guys, who is it with? I fully agree with Mr Fritsma. They should be locked down. That's the only profit from the story. I hear they're being put in jail, then put them into use immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u37	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u38	Mr. Chairman. The debate is about the cracking of houses by the action group We Are Here. These are often undocumented asylum seekers who do not have accommodation. A few weeks ago, there was a lot of unrest about it. About 20 homes were cracked, including disturbances of public order and intimidation. Threat and intimidation are inadmissible. In the meantime, the judge has decided that the houses must be evacuated by 1 June. After that, the people of We Are Here return to the streets, and that is not the first time. That's why we need to look at the underlying problem. These are people who fall between shores and ships, for example, processed asylum seekers. They must return to their country of origin, but that country will not take them back. Does the government agree that a solution should be found? Is the government going to put pressure on those countries to take them back, as I requested in my motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u39	What is the legal departure obligation worth for the SP? It is true that some countries of origin are making it difficult to cooperate in forced deportations. But that does not alter the fact that these illegals themselves have a duty to leave. You say they're getting between ship and ship, but that's just not true. So my second question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u40	Maybe it's good to ask the first question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u41	I'm allowed to ask two questions at once, for convenience, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u42	Mr. Fritsma, I think it would be good if Mr. Jasper van Dijk responded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u43	First, this question? Those are two interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u44	That's what I'm about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u45	If people are done and have to leave the Netherlands, then they have to leave the Netherlands. Mr Fritsma is well aware that I have instructed the Secretary of State, Mr Harbers' predecessor, to talk to those countries that do not take their nationals back. Go put more pressure on that. Spain succeeds, but the Netherlands fails for some reason. That has to be different, because now they fall between shore and ship and end up on the street. You don't want that, I don't want that. We need a solution to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u46	That's not an answer to my question. I didn't ask about the countries of origin that didn't cooperate in forced expulsion. That part's right, you're right. However, illegal immigrants themselves have a duty to leave the Netherlands. And you can. In this way, all illegal immigrants who cooperate in return are already received from the state. This is always emphasised by the cabinet: foreigners who are illegal and who cooperate in departure are already receiving shelter for a long time. Conclusion: these are foreigners who do not want to cooperate on departure, can leave but simply do not want to leave. It would be a good thing if the SP acknowledged that for once, because now you are protecting people who do not deserve it at all. You better protect the victims of the misconduct of illegals as SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u47	How many interruptions does Mr Fritsma have left? No, I'm kidding. It is much more nuanced than Mr Fritsma says. It's a colourful group of people, including proceedings, stateless people, people who have made repeated applications. You have to look at the person's situation on a case-by-case basis. Does he have to go? Then he'll have to go. That's a matter for the Secretary of State if he doesn't succeed. Can he stay? Then he can stay. There is now a group that falls in between and that needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u48	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u49	There are houses being creaked that are empty for a long time. Why are there social housing empty if there are people on a waiting list for more than ten years? Why are social housing and masse sold? This causes housing shortage among people with lower incomes. When will the government commit itself to adequate affordable housing? For those who fall between shore and ship, a sustainable solution is needed, because what happens when buildings are evacuated without alternative? Then these people end up on the street, with all the consequences. No one will benefit, because this will cause a great deal of trouble. Isn't it better to provide shelter? Who are we talking about? Some of them have gone to trial and have to go back. So bet more on that return, so I ask the government. There are refugees who were rejected because they couldn't prove that they were lht'er or Christian, or because they couldn't tell enough detail about their country, when they didn't leave their village. Others are stateless. Another part comes from supposedly safe countries like Afghanistan. But that concept of safe is rather relative. Afghanistan is very dangerous. Attacks are the order of the day. The United Nations and Amnesty are also very critical of expulsions. Not for nothing will there soon be a new post for Afghanistan. Can the Secretary of State tell us when that new post is due? Some are in a repeat asylum procedure. They don't have to leave the country, they don't have to get shelter. More than a hundred members of the group were previously licensed. In short: a colourful group of people. I ask the cabinet to close the asylum policy, to close the so-called 'asylum gap'. That doesn't mean putting everyone out of business, but making sure that the frameworks are right. That does not mean giving everyone a residence permit, but to those who are entitled to it. Then an end to years of waiting without a place to stay. In short: provide a form of reception for this group, where they can work on their return or repeated application. Then you prevent them from coming out on the street or cracking apartments. As long as the cabinet dives away from this problem, it ends up on the sign of the municipalities. They then seek their own solutions, which some colleagues are very angry about. But maybe they should get angry at their own government, which doesn't make a decisive policy. So please clarify quickly the plans on reception for processed or undocumented asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u50	Thank you. Mr Koerhuis also wishes to put a question to you, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u51	I can't believe it. I just said it: it doesn't seem any different here than in Amsterdam at the SP. The SP says it stands for the social tenant, but all I hear here is approval for this squatting action in Amsterdam. It's like it's normal for those squatters to be in those social rentals and those social tenants to be out on the street. Or didn't I hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u52	No, you didn't. I started with: threats and intimidations are inadmissible. In addition, the court has ruled that the houses must be evacuated by 1 June. But what are we gonna do next, these people? I have never heard Mr Koerhuis talk about this, not here, nor at PowNews. Look back at that video, it's extremely laughable. Mr. Koerhuis, you're just yelling, "they need to get out, they need to get out, period." But what are we gonna do, Mr. Koerhuis? Let's think a little bit further than your nose is long. There is a group that falls between shore and ship, which cannot return to the country of origin. Your own VVD Secretary of State isn't going through enough, as I have to say, and then they end up on the street. And that is what is happening under the responsibility of your party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u53	I'll ask the question back. You too, Mr. Van Dijk, go no further than to tell them to get out of court. Do they have to get out of the SP, too, or does the SP stop standing behind the social tenants now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u54	No. I'm just saying that the judge has decided that the houses need to be evacuated. Crazy language. Then, as a political party, I would like to think a little bit further. It is not the first time, Mr Koerhuis, that these people are being evacuated. They're moving from building to building. You don't want to, and I don't want to. I want a structural solution: or back to the country of origin, or here in the shelter. But you leave them to their fate and you're angry every week. That doesn't make any sense at all. You need to think more about a sustainable solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u55	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u56	Mr. Chairman. Today the Chamber is debating a serious matter. In Amsterdam houses have been cracked by housing corporation Ymere. If you read the way that happened, there's no way you can justify it. One of the residences, it was just called........................................................................................................................................................................................... You can and you can't. This is the kind of case that needs to be dealt with. The city council of Amsterdam has therefore debated this strongly with the mayor and the mayor indicated that the Public Prosecutor's Office decided that the squatters had to leave the homes within eight weeks. And on April 26th, the squatters filed an interim suit to stop the evacuation. My group did not support the request for this debate, not because we do not think it is a serious matter, on the contrary, but because we believe that this issue should be looked at locally and by the Public Prosecutor. In the meantime, between the request for this debate and the debate itself, the Public Prosecutor has also made a decision: the squatters have to leave the homes. Although we are not talking about it, I do have a number of questions. For example, we have the question whether the damage caused by the cracking is recovered from the squatters. And in the broader context: are there similar incidents in other places in the country? Is this a structural problem or is this, we hope, an incident? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u57	Thank you. Oh, Mr. Jasper van Dijk!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u58	Can I ask D66 what their solution is for the group of asylum seekers who are currently on the streets, sometimes squatting houses and not being deported? In short, what is the solution of D66 for this group of people who have fallen between shore and ship?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u59	I would like to make it clear in advance that I am not the spokesman on asylum. I hope you'll forgive me for not being able to go into very much detail. Mr Grothuizen will undoubtedly discuss this with you more often. What I understand is a local search for a solution. They're working on it, and I think that's a good step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u60	A lot is happening locally and Amsterdam deserves a compliment for that. That may also be said, because 020 is going to suffer a lot in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u61	I have to process it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u62	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u63	I'm from Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u64	Despite those excellent VVD aldermen and interim mayor there! But that aside. My point, of course, is that there is also a national problem, the national problem of receiving asylum seekers who have been processed. The cabinet does say something about this in the coalition agreement, but it is still deafeningly silent there. Do you agree with me that we should provide a form of shelter for these people as long as they fall between shore and ship?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u65	I find it dangerous to enter my colleague's area. So I fear that you must try to get an answer from him in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u66	Thank you. Mrs Van Eijs is indeed replacing Mr Groothuizen. She passed that on, too. Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u67	I do replace Mrs Voortman. Madam President. I agree with my D66 colleague that this discussion should not have taken place here at all or should have taken place in the Lower House. It was conducted in part on 25 April in the city council in Amsterdam and will undoubtedly continue at the party congress of the VVD. That is where we can discuss how the Liberal Group in the House of Representatives has been singed away from the practice that mayors have to deal with on a daily basis. The VVD wants to debate things it is not about, but refuses to do anything about the things it is about! And with that, of course, I am referring to solutions for people who do not have a residence permit here but do not go back to their own country. As Mr Van Dijk said, it is an extremely diverse group of people, a very colourful company. Some of the people cannot go back to their country of origin because they are not safe there, and these people need to be subject to the debt criterion. Part of the group can't go back because they don't have to go back to their country of origin. It is precisely with the governments of these countries that the cabinet should conclude readmission agreements. Some of them do not want to go back either, and as far as the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is concerned, these people will also have to be deported. It is important that the long-promised plans of another kind of bed-bath bread finally get off the ground, so that people get good guidance to get a new perspective, or in the country of origin, or in the Netherlands. I can tell you that the mayors of the big cities are hungry for this. Let me quote the Amsterdam interim mayor Van Aartsen: I notice that in the time when someone was sitting there, let's say the previous Secretary of State, very little has happened. He has even left the final solution of this whole to a new cabinet. This cabinet. So Mr Harbers will now have to make progress and I hope for a response from him on when we can expect that progress. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn my attention to what we are not talking about, namely the Rudolf Diesel Street. That is, for the non-Amsterdammers, a street parallel to the Nobelweg, behind the Ringdijk. According to Mayor Van Aartsen, 47 houses had been empty for some time. Those homes were on the nomination to be demolished, but there were no concrete plans for after. A group of people then cracked those houses. In addition, I understood that there were indeed some errors, and that is incredibly annoying for the persons in question. We can't let that happen. Fortunately, these problems were resolved immediately afterwards by the Public Prosecutor. There has also been harassment. That is absolutely unacceptable. As far as the evacuation is concerned, the Public Prosecutor's Office has examined the case and ruled that an emergency evacuation was not necessary. The reason for this was that there were no serious disturbances of public policy. Furthermore, the standing Amsterdam policy is not to clear for empty positions. Amsterdam is a city to live and live, a city with a large shortage of housing. Therefore, Amsterdam does not want to give work to house milkers and speculators, and that seems quite understandable to my group. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, the uninhabitable houses have been made somewhat habitable again, according to Mayor Van Aartsen a measure that the housing corporation Ymere could have taken better during the period of vacant position. But since Ymere now has concrete plans for the homes, the judge has decided that the squatters must leave the premises as of 1 June. The spokesperson of We Are Here also thinks this is a very understandable decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u68	It is a pity that GroenLinks now pretends to be presenting the facts, leaving aside other facts for ease. Because is the GroenLinks also known that not everything could be dealt with immediately, because some people called for the fact that they didn't want to leave? Is the GroenLinks aware that Ymere is now being forced to renovate houses that will be demolished, just to wait for this scum to come out and demolish them, so that all those euros cannot be spent on housing for families who can get a place there? Is GroenLinks also known for Ymere's horror?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u69	I am also aware that, for example, Mayor Van Aartsen had first said that Ymere had waited a long time to file a report. I did understand that there were all kinds of obstacles for Ymere to file that report. I'm well aware of that. What matters to me is that those homes were empty and that Ymere should have done something about that earlier. But that didn't happen. There's been cracks, but cracks are forbidden by Dutch law. The judge was then sued and the judge has now given a judgment. All this seems to me to be an extremely orderly course of action. Things have also happened that weren't right. That's what I said. There's been harassment. That is always unacceptable. There has been talk of cracking a number of houses that should not have been cracked. That's where people went out. That's what I said. At the same time it is also true that by far most homes were empty and that there are now squatters there until 1 June. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u70	I think my lecture was a different one and it was clear as well. Is the GroenLinks also aware that the Amsterdam College has asked the housing corporations not to report anymore? Is the Green Left also aware that this is precisely the dreaded undermining and that the judges and the prosecutors who have looked into this need also have to realize that we are here in parliament making the laws and implementing them, and that the separation of powers is reciprocal? Does GroenLinks agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u71	The mayor of Amsterdam denies having made a call not to press charges. I think this is a question that could be asked, for example, to the Minister of the Interior, because I would think it would be a bad thing if an appeal were made not to press charges. I wouldn't agree with that. I also think it is very logical to look at whether this is the case, but I leave it to the Minister of the Interior to do so. The mayor of Amsterdam, as I read in the report, said that this was not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u72	If it is sung somewhere in a party, I notice now, it is at GroenLinks. Because in the motion by Groot Wassink, your great leader in Amsterdam, it really says that no report should be made. You're saying here that you're not behind that. Or am I wrong about that? Actually, I'd like to ask you something. That is my second question. One more time seems to be sung at GroenLinks, because I hear your colleague, Mr Voortman, you are replacing your colleague, I understand nothing more than standing behind social tenants and I hear you doing nothing more than standing behind squatters. Do you agree with me and with Mrs Voortman that those squatters should be out and those social tenants in it, or are you no longer behind those social tenants and leaving them out on the street?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u73	What a load of bullshit. Of course, I also support social tenants, but they were not in it. That was kind of the point. It was empty. The whole idea was that those homes would eventually be refurbished and tenants would get into it. If 47 homes and 2 business premises are empty, you can't suddenly imagine that there were really whole families behind cups of tea in those social rental homes. They weren't in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u74	It's obvious. So you're no longer behind social tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u75	That fictitious tenant, that dream tenant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u76	I have asked another question about your party's disloyalty in the matter of whether or not to press charges. I hear you say here that you do not agree with the call in the Amsterdam City Council not to press charges. If anyone has already been sung, it is someone within your party, because that was really called by your great leader, Great Wassink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u77	Big leaders, we don't do that within GroenLinks. I'm telling you honestly what I think. I think it is very important that we look here at whether the law has been enforced. I'm glad the judge was able to tell me what he thought. The judge has also said that the group that was in it can't really go anywhere and he has given a very reasonable and balanced judgment. I think it is perfectly normal for the judge to look into this and look at the possibilities of the people who were in those homes. I thought it was a balanced judge's judgment, and I think it makes perfect sense for the judge to rule on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u78	I would like to give Mrs Buitenweg a chance to be clear about the motion that Mr Koerhuis has just spoken about. There is a motion, adopted by the Council, which says, I quote, that the property owners should be strongly urged not to make an evacuation request if a house is broken open. May I conclude from your words that you condemn this motion, the adoption of this motion, and that you reject this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u79	This is precisely why I say that we should not have such a debate on very specific issues in Amsterdam. I don't know what else is behind it. Well, if it's about not clearing out for vacant position, then I'm behind it, because why would you clear out for vacant position? That is what I have always said in the beginning. I don't want to have a city that's being cleared for empty space. If the idea of that motion wasn't to call in a report when the perspective is that it's left empty, I think it makes sense. If there's another perspective, I might not think it makes any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u80	Whether it is right for us to debate this tonight, I shall come back to that in my speech. I think it is right. Let's separate ourselves from the motives. There is squatting here, thereby affecting the property rights of the owners and then the Amsterdam City Council, by motion, strongly urges property owners not to submit a request for evacuation if their property is broken open. Would you support that or not, no matter what the motivation for it is, just out of respect for property law, out of respect for the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u81	The point is that there are, of course, several cases involved in the squatting ban. You do have the right to property. At the same time, you also have the big social problem of housing shortage. That's why, among other things, it's been agreed not to evacuate for clearance. That is a stand-alone policy and that has been defended by all the previous B and W's of Amsterdam, together with all the aldermen of the VVD and other parties. It's standing policy: we're not gonna clear out for empty spaces because we're not a city of cottage milkers and speculators. People can just leave their homes empty and hope that the price is increased. No! We want to live and live in Amsterdam. That is why I am not in favour of it if it is true that there is only talk of slamming houses in empty spaces. Then you can ask: are you for cracking? Well, at least I can imagine there wouldn't be a report if the perspective was to be left empty. Because I am really worried about those people who need a home, and about those social housing too. That's what this is about. The point is that homes must be able to be inhabited.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u82	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. Oh, no, you're not done yet, but you have to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u83	Mr President, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u84	Mr Koerhuis, I see you again at the interrupting microphone, but you have just been there. You've interrupted as much as anyone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u85	Yes, I wanted to end by saying that at the moment I think the situation is so that both Ymere and We Are Here are satisfied with the decision. The houses will therefore be abandoned on 1 June. This has not solved the situation of that group of residents of Amsterdam. It will therefore have to be found elsewhere. But there is a new phase for the inhabitants of Rudolf Diesel Street, for the residents who already live there and for the people who become their neighbors when the new homes are delivered. I wish them a lot of pleasure here, from the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u86	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u87	Thank you, Mr President. If I could just use half a minute to summarize the issue we are talking about and express an opinion on it, I would say the following sentence. In this case of Amsterdam, we are talking about proceedings that try to extend their illegal residence by illegal means. The law must be enforced. I see you looking relieved, Mr. Chairman. Was this the half-minute? That's true, but I'm going to make a few other comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u88	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u89	In 2010, the SGP indeed supported the law on creaking and emptying, which explicitly included the ban on cracking. It does not say: if it is houses that are empty and have no further destination, then it may be cracked. No, there's an explicit ban on cracking. Those rules are set. And if those rules aren't right, then we need to talk about adjusting them here. If people think they are being treated unfairly, then there are legal opportunities to object and appeal. Mr President, this is called the rule of law! It is at stake and that is why what is happening in Amsterdam is so unacceptable. In this matter it is the task of the municipality to maintain, and indeed, that can also be done through the line of the judge. In this way, citizens will be protected. That is not happening now, and that justifies the fact that the House of Representatives is now giving its opinion on it. How does the Minister assess that there is an approved motion in the municipality of Amsterdam which states that "we must strongly urge property owners not to apply for evacuation if their home is broken open"? And how does the Minister assess that the College has indicated that it has decided that this motion will be carried out? I, too, would like to ask, in the light of a question asked by a colleague earlier, whether the Minister has the opportunity to destroy this decision. And if so, is the Minister prepared to do so? Finally, I have a question about the ruling of the Public Prosecutor that evacuation will only take place after eight weeks. After all, Kraken is forbidden and tenants deserve protection. How's this gonna end up with squatters for over two months? I would also like to comment on that. Mr President, I shall leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u90	Thank you. This was the first term of office. I hear the rulers need a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u91	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u92	Madam President. During the Easter weekend, a group called We Are Here, which consists largely of processed asylum seekers and other squatters, cracked a dozen buildings in one street in Amsterdam, because they find the bed-bath-bath-bread scheme that the city offers insufficient. The number of cracked buildings then increased to 23. According to the municipality of Amsterdam, a number of these buildings have since been abandoned. It is not the first time that the group We Are Here cracks buildings in the city. Somewhat new was that it was a residential house in a residential area. Previously, the group focused on vacant premises. The owner of the buildings, Ymere housing association, reported that the buildings were cracked. In proceedings for interim relief, the judge ruled on 26 April that the squatters must have left the premises by 1 June at the latest. Mr. Chairman. I find the situation described above in the Easter weekend unacceptable for various reasons. Kraken is a criminal offense. It is an unacceptable violation of property rights. It does not matter what the legal residence status of the squatters is. It is and remains a criminal offence. By the way, a declaration of a hacking offence almost always leads to evacuation. The main consequence of the Cracking and Cracking Act is that the focus has become entirely criminal, as the original petitioners of your Chamber intended. The Public Prosecutor's Office is the central party to determine whether there is a crack and whether criminal action will be taken against it, both in terms of evacuation and prosecution. One of the possibilities is to proceed to an emergency evacuation. This is possible if there are other offences such as serious destruction, or if dangerous situations arise or if public order is seriously disturbed. But fortunately, as I said, reporting a hacking offence in practice leads to virtually all evacuation, so at least the law works in that respect. I want to move on to the questions that have been asked. Mr Koerhuis of the VVD has asked: can the Minister evacuate the homes? I don't see any way to do that. The power to evacuate has been conferred on the State's Attorney General.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u93	This is going a little too fast. The Minister bypasses the most important point. Evacuating cracked buildings is one thing, but another thing is, of course, punishing those individual, illegal squatters. That's exactly what didn't happen. The Minister is responsible for that. This minister is responsible for the prosecution. We are dealing here with dozens of illegal immigrants who have been squatting buildings and houses for years, and not once has anyone been punished. How is that possible? That's what I want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u94	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u95	The Minister does not approve, but he is responsible for ensuring that no one has been punished.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u96	Yeah, I actually got to your question, so in that respect, it's two birds with one stone. Why are rioters above the law and hasn't one squatter been convicted yet? As far as I am concerned, that is not quite the right idea. Let me say it in a general sense: neither troublemakers nor squatters are above the law; they are indeed persecuted. Whether that happens in a specific case by the D.A.'s office is precisely the decision of the D.A.'s office. If the statistics show that too many squatters are getting away without condemnation, then we really need to look at that. I agree with Mr Fritsma and say: it is not going to work at the moment. But I don't have a clue right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u97	The PVV Group has repeatedly asked for it. We are now dealing with a very clear group of dozens of illegal immigrants who have been cracking houses and buildings for years. The Minister does not answer the question. These illegal immigrants are above the law, because of this particular group, no one has ever been prosecuted, sentenced or punished. And that, of course, is eating the whole egg, because now they're getting away with their crimes. We now know that not one illegal squatter has been punished. Can the Minister now ensure that this happens as soon as possible, that the Public Prosecutor's Office also specifically maintains the squatting ban towards these dozens of illegals and prosecutes and punishes those squatters? Shouldn't the Minister be able to promise that now after all these months of misery?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u98	Let me start by saying that the D.A., the state's attorney's office, is actually enforcing the crack order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u99	But not in this group!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u100	Also in this case. Well, it's true that the D.A.'s office has announced an eviction date. I will come to Mrs Van Toorenburg's questions in a moment: how about that, would you not..., must it necessarily, and so on? I will come to that in a moment: do you really need to wait for a court ruling first? But that's something that does happen. I will reply immediately to Mr Koerhuis' question in the context of this interruption, if that has the well-being of Mr Koerhuis. Mr Koerhuis asked if the Minister was prepared to make an overview of arrests for squatting per municipality. Such an overview would be a very labour-intensive matter, but I have previously sent you an evaluation of the Cracking and Vacation Act and it contains a good overview of distribution, declarations and suspects per district. I see there's gonna be another interruption, but I still want to finish this. Then the point comes back that it is ultimately up to the local Public Prosecutor's Office to proceed with possible prosecution and punishment. In the group that you are talking about, there are indeed very few convictions in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u101	None!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u102	But in the end, if we were to think that this should change, we would have to look at how that really works. At present, it is often the case that at least the evacuation serves the best interests of the owner and the neighbors. And that evacuation, as I said, is actually being deployed through enforcement by the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u103	Second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u104	Yes, Mr. Chairman, the second interruption. But you must also ensure that questions are answered, because it is clear that this Minister simply refuses to answer my question. He keeps coming back to the point of evacuation. We do know that. My question was about those individual illegal squatters who are simply not punished. The Minister says there are few convictions. Minister, why don't you just tell me the truth, that there are zero convictions? Why don't you just say honestly that not one rioter of these illegal squatters has been dealt with and punished? Why don't you tell me? You're shifting it to the D.A.'s office now, but you're responsible for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u105	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u106	So please make sure these illegals are punished, because if you can't even admit it after all these weeks of misery...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u107	Mr. Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u108	Yeah, well, we're a long way from home, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u109	In the beginning, through the President, I made it very clear to Mr Fritsma that it is an unacceptable violation of property rights. Cracking is a criminal offense. Let's make that very clear. So I fully understand that you say: listen, we must apply it at some point. In practice, it often appears that it is primarily aimed at evacuation in accordance with the law. But that's where the problem lies with this group. If we think that we should focus more on prosecution, then there might be reason to change the policy of the Public Prosecutor. I do not think it is a problem at all to offer Mr Fritsma a further letter to him, which is of course addressed to your Chamber, in which the public prosecutor's deliberations on this matter in practice are repeated. For I fully understand that I would like to stress his unsatisfied sense of justice on the point that too few squatters would be prosecuted. I understand that very well, but there is therefore a point of consideration, in which the public prosecutors focus very much on realizing that evacuation as soon as possible. But I would like to offer to clarify this point, that consideration, in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u110	This minister is indeed responsible for the prosecution, and I want him to go one step further. Because in 2010, the Public Prosecutor's Office actually opened the door to exonerating itself from action, namely by making it a whole arrangement with a few special circumstances, which ultimately only means waiting. If even a court of law says that there are these circumstances now, there will be no evacuation. So can the Minister promise that he will be working to ensure that those directives of the Public Prosecutor's Office simply depart from this point of view and that the squatting law is maintained in the way it has been established here, democratically?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u111	Well, let's put it this way: I can't agree to that. What I can say to Mrs Van Toorenburg is that I should like to return to Mr Fritsma's point of order in a letter, and to see how this is done in practice. 'Cause I'm kind of getting to the same point. I fully understand the unsatisfied sense of justice. The point is that in this case the directly injured, the directly disadvantaged, in this case the owners and often also local residents, often have the most interest in evacuating them, and that after such evacuation the prosecution is often compromised, especially in groups that are difficult to trace. But I would like to promise that I will return to that 2010 directive and how it is applied in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u112	It's a nice gesture from the Minister, but I don't need it. Because I've really been thinking about that. I've organized a hearing on it. I have heard the police here in our Parliamentary House say that the way in which that directive is currently being implemented is a facilitation of cracking. And we, as CDA, have tabled an initiative law here in the Chamber and it has finally been given by the Chamber with the support of this Parliament. I have to say that the D.A.'s office has opened the door, which means that it will not be enforced. So the law doesn't apply in this way. I think the cabinet should take that to heart. That is why I want this directive to go away and ensure that the law is enforced as intended. If the Minister cannot agree to this, we will be tabling a motion to ensure that it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u113	Let me say this first. Squatters can indeed be arrested in the act for breach of Article 138 or Article 138a Criminal law. For this to happen, it is necessary to file a report in order to establish the illegality. Moreover, in this case there is such a declaration, but arrest or criminal prosecution in the act cannot yet lead to a solution, because that does not mean that the building has been permanently evacuated. Until there is a ruling in interim proceedings, it must be assumed that squatters have established house law so that they can return to the squat after their release. What I want to promise, then, is a new attempt to see if that meets the feelings that live in this case with the Member of Parliament, Mr Van Toorenburg, is to re-evaluate how that practice actually takes place. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u114	Mrs Van Toorenburg and I are in this together. Just to get it sharp, here's what's gonna happen. I hear the Minister say: look at the law all over again and evaluate it again. Does the Minister agree with us that this eight-week policy really needs to be abandoned, and that it really needs to go a step further than looking at and evaluating, which is ultimately also to scorch off?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u115	Look, I'm telling you quite frankly, I don't see opportunities for that very quickly. This simply has to do with Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. There's a ruling from the Supreme Court. You know that, of course. It has confirmed that the Treaty requires a judge to be able to assess the decision to evacuate on the basis of proportionality. I then immediately answered your two questions on that point. Two fundamental rights are under discussion, says the Supreme Court: the right to property in respect of house law. In practice, in almost all cases, the judge allows the criminal evacuation of squats and prevails over property rights. There is no need to amend the law in this respect, because in almost all cases the judge simply assigns it. So the law works well. I'll be there for another eight weeks, but it's not possible to take that time off. That is because without such an eviction decision you will encounter problems with the ECHR and with our own Supreme Court. As regards the reduction of the eight-week period, I would like to point out that, in the same judgment of 18 October 2011, the Supreme Court stated that the evacuation must be announced in advance. In this way, squatters are given the opportunity to initiate interim proceedings. This is also the result of the ECHR. Until recently, it generally took about eight weeks at national level to complete the procedure for interim measures. We are talking about asking for the date, the hearing and the verdict. At least this period has been shortened to four weeks in Amsterdam. That, in turn, is because the interim ruling and the date at which the judge made it are allowed to wait. I would also like to stress that there is no need to wait for any appeal. That is a very important element here, I think. It can therefore be implemented immediately. Once again, I think that the deadlines here are really as strict as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u116	As I have said, I am in this together with Mrs Van Toorenburg. We're gonna table a motion together to really burn this thing down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u117	Please continue, I'll tell the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u118	I think I have answered my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u119	I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u120	Thank you, Mr President. I shall deal with the foreign law aspects of the Chamber's contribution. This starts with the finding that the admission procedures or asylum procedures in the Netherlands can lead to the conclusion that protection is not at issue in the Netherlands. Persons who do so no longer have legal residence in the Netherlands. Several speakers have already recalled that they have an independent legal obligation to return to the country of origin. If you choose to do that independently, there's a whole world of support. Go to the Return and Departure Service and there can be many ways for everyone to be mediated to any country in the world in return to the country of origin. At the same time, and your Chamber is also aware of this, returning to practice can be reckless because the actual return is often partly dependent on the cooperation and attitude of the stranger himself. This is certainly true when it comes to self-return. Cooperation from some countries of origin on forced return is difficult to achieve. However, it starts with the observation that the people we are talking about today have a duty to leave the Netherlands. This is a special group. By the way, we've seen that before. These people usually indicate that they do not have any papers or travel documents with which they can return. The identity is difficult to establish. Therefore, without proper information on the origin of these foreigners, it is difficult to obtain documents. We are talking about a group of people who, in short, are doing everything in their power to ignore court rulings and frustrate the departure. Of course, I also find this situation very undesirable. For this reason, it is one of the main priorities of the cabinet to strengthen the effectiveness of return policy. I refer briefly to the migration letter I recently sent to the Chamber. Among other things, it is important to urge third countries to cooperate more closely in the withdrawal of their own nationals and the issuing of travel documents, and, if necessary, to look at this in the wider relationship with the countries of origin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u121	This is what I referred to in my contribution. There are people who have to go back to their country of origin, but that country of origin simply says: we do not want them. Then these people stay in the Netherlands and end up in all kinds of places. How can the Netherlands fail to send such a person back, when a country like Spain succeeds in doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u122	The situation is not as black and white as Mr Van Dijk sketches. This problem occurs in about every country in the European Union when you see the returns of forced return. It is very often dependent on the bilateral relations that countries in the European Union have with countries of origin. It is true that for some countries of origin Spain is more successful in bringing people back, but they too know countries where it is not possible. It is difficult for the whole of the European Union to force people to return to a country like Iran. The statue isn't that black and white. As far as I know, almost every country in the European Union has a list of countries where return is difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u123	That may be so, but it remains to be seen that no one understands why an asylum seeker is still here. Why can't the government put more pressure on those countries to take back their nationals? Especially if we find that Spain does succeed in doing so. What does Spain do better than the Netherlands and why does the Netherlands not do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u124	I told you, this image isn't so black and white. We are also working on this in the Netherlands. We are systematically trying to map the links with countries of origin to see if it is possible to put pressure on something. At the same time, it also sometimes has to do with historically grown links. For example, if Mr Van Dijk is referring to the return from Spain to Morocco, the numbers are high. This has undoubtedly also to do with the actual proximity of both countries, which, historically, means that there are more bilateral links. This does not mean that not only we, but also our neighbouring countries are in the process of looking at, if possible in cooperation with each other in the European Union, how we can improve our return to countries of origin where it is difficult to do so. For the sake of short, I refer to a palette of measures which I have referred to in the migration letter and which the European Union is now looking at, for example, whether you can do something with some countries with the visa policy to convince the governments concerned to take back their nationals. We will be discussing this shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u125	I understand that there will be a general consultation on this on 13 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u126	That's right, Madam President. In the meantime, I do not want to say that we tolerate every illegal stay in the Netherlands. We often have a picture of the countries to which it is difficult to return, and we are constantly looking for ways of getting the people involved to return to these countries. The situation is never quite static over time. At some point there can be a better relationship with a country of origin. We will then, of course, go into the files of the Return Service and see if there are any people left who could return to such a country. We are constantly in consultation with all partners, such as municipalities and police. Also with the municipality of Amsterdam, the Return and Departure Service has very regular contact about the presence of groups without legal residence in the city. In case consultation, it is considered whether there are people among whom return could be arranged in the meantime. Mr Fritsma asked for a lick-on-piece policy for municipalities that did not cooperate. I note that the Return and Departure Service generally succeeds in engaging with the municipality if the service has concrete instructions about a person who can return and who would be somewhere in the city. I wouldn't argue for a lick-on-piece policy. I don't think it's necessary either. The Return and Departure Service has excellent relations with all municipalities. Then Mr Fritsma asked why illegal immigrants were not taken out of squats by the police and imprisoned until they wanted to return on their own. I have just explained that in the return policy, the primacy lies with the independent return. At the same time, it is not true what Mr Fritsma says that you can just put people in jail in anticipation of the moment when they opt for independent return. Both the European Return Directive and the European Convention on Human Rights stipulate that you can only take someone into custody if there is a view of expulsion. Then you can keep him in alien detention. This is preceded by the fact that you know who you are being held in custody and that you also know if there is any prospect of a return for that person in the country of origin in question. Holding someone to force him to return voluntarily is not allowed, unfortunately for Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u127	The fact that there are rules restricting foreign detention is bad enough. We need to get rid of these rules. There is, of course, also a political element in this, namely that the decision was made from the Rutte II cabinet to reduce the instrument of foreign detention. The Secretary of State knows that, too. Thousands of places have gone for alien detention. So illegality is tolerated in the sense that the cabinet lets illegals run instead of imprisoning them. Now we are talking about this group very much of annoying illegal squatters. I want to know around this group how many times have been tried to secure and deport these dozens of illegal squatters. This is a specific, defined group and the Secretary of State should be able to provide information on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u128	Firstly, Mr Fritsma's statement that the detention of aliens has been terminated. There is no higher goal to say that the numbers should go down or up. It simply has to do with the individual position of people who make it necessary for you to be able to justify to the judge why alien detention is required in that particular case. Nor is it the case that policy is only becoming more flexible. I hope that soon we will be able to deal with the bill of custody and return with the Chamber, which also contains a number of tightenings with the aim of making it possible to return more often. This particular group is not static, but changes its composition. We don't know exactly who's in there. But also with this group it has occurred in recent years that at some point an image was created or there was a person who could return. Then there's been retrievings. There have also been people from this group who have opted for independent return at some point and have reported to the DT&V or the IOM for that purpose. As far as I know, it could have been two years for 20 people who left on their own in the past year. The group is not static, and where we see possibilities, the DT&V will always explore them to see if we can achieve the eviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u129	It is a long answer, but the Secretary of State knows as well as I do that the removal of foreign detention was a political choice. So-called alternatives of alien detention have been used under pressure from all left-wing parties here; reporting and so on. Those alternatives to alien detention aren't working. We have to go back to applying foreign detention much more often, that's one. Two: if you see these illegal squatters causing so much suffering and misery, we are talking about threats, intimidations and vandalism, should you at least put these illegals in and out? It has to be with all the illegals, but just start with these illegals. The image that this group is not put in the way is indigestible. This Secretary of State is responsible for this and has to deal with these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u130	Alternatives to foreign detention are requested from us, including from the treaties I have just mentioned. You must be able to demonstrate that lighter measures for expulsion are not working. That is also the reasoning that the judge ultimately asks. If they don't work, people are placed in alien custody. For this the condition is that there must be a view on expulsion, otherwise the detention of aliens will stop at some point. Mr Fritsma asks for these illegal immigrants to be detained and calls for the criminalisation of illegality. He is aware that illegality is not punishable in the Netherlands. The cabinet does not intend to do so either. Illegality is no basis for placing people in foreign detention. The ground to put people in foreign detention is that people are expelled from the Netherlands. Mrs Van Toorenburg, on the other hand, expressed her concern during an interruption to Mr Fritsma about the possible aspirating effect that this might have. We are, of course, constantly monitoring with the fellow Member States of the European Union whether there are movements in these groups. There are no signs in our minds that illegal foreigners are travelling across Europe from France on a large scale and coming to the Netherlands, whether or not triggered by the events in Amsterdam. The groups in Paris described by Mrs Van Toorenburg are really different in composition and purpose from the people we are talking about in Amsterdam. They have often been in the Netherlands for a long time. It can also play a role that, contrary to what has been suggested, illegal stay in the Netherlands is not as easy, at least as it is in some of the fellow Member States of the European Union. Especially since the introduction of the linking principle, it is almost impossible for illegal residents to build an independent existence in the Netherlands. We also know that in some other countries it is relatively easier in that respect to maintain yourself in illegality for a long time and to provide for your maintenance in the informal or sometimes even formal work circuit. Rest assured: we constantly monitor how the asylum policies of the various European countries relate to the Dutch. We also monitor all aspects that could possibly lead to asylum shopping, as we sometimes call it, and to movements of groups towards other countries. Then I'll take a look at the questions I've had in the meantime. Mr Van Dijk asked about the report on Afghanistan. As previously shared with the Chamber, I expect that within a few weeks, so end of May, beginning of June. Then we'll talk about that. Mr Van Dijk said: you must make asylum policy final, because there is a group here in the Netherlands that falls between shore and ship. He gave a number of examples of this and of when, for example, this would mean that the policy on external debt would be on the agenda. For all these things, it is true that in order to determine what the perspective is for people, that will in many cases be simply a return they must report to the Return and Departure Service or the International Organisation for Migration. There is little we can do at the moment when we do not have any kind of cooperation and people do not come forward. Mr Van Dijk said that people had received a permit in the past. So those were people who reported to the government and were in the picture. Apart from that, both Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Buitenweg asked, referring to the passage in the government agreement on the provision of national aliens, which we are going to settle for this group. We are in agreement with the municipalities on this, because the appeal in the government agreement is explicit not only to do so from the Empire. We are now taking stock of what is happening in this area in municipalities in the Netherlands. There are varying experiences, varying approaches and thus varying results. We are now in the phase that we are trying to visualize what works and what doesn't, and what you should arrange for groups as a residual provision, without me wanting it to get a suction effect in itself, like: you're done, but you're still allowed in a facility. The prospect of return is always at the forefront. In between, you may encounter cases that are very complicated and for which other solutions are, but that is not the primary objective. I cannot say exactly when we are ready, because we are doing this in conjunction with the municipalities. However, we are busy in consultation. As soon as this results, the Chamber will be the first to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u131	The latter is essential. We must not call them This group, which has so much discussion, should be covered by this regulation. Is the Secretary of State going to implement this part of the coalition agreement? Can he then say that this should lead to a lasting solution for this group of people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u132	That's half the story from the coalition agreement. The coalition agreement states that this is not perpetual and that the prospect of return must primarily be worked on in those locations. One of the characteristics of the group we are talking about is that this group has been avoiding any form of government supervision for a long time, sometimes for years. That behavior will also not be possible in a future form of lvv, because if you do not stay in conversation and take any steps that can lead to return, care is not the issue. One has to cooperate in return or, for whatever reason, in a different perspective. We must first take all these steps on the road to return, before we can see that this really is not possible. That is the condition for staying in such a form of shelter in the future. This group deviates from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u133	I want to ensure that we now have a broad debate on asylum. It's supposed to take place at another time. I call on you to stay on the subject. Mr Van Dijk, give a good example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u134	Mr President, I will try to make a link to this debate. We are now having a debate because of the nuisance caused by the creaking of buildings. No one wants that trouble. So the question is: will the cabinet solve this in the future? Or is this half the story? Is there now a group in the Netherlands wandering around, living under a bridge, in a cracked building or on the street? Or does the Secretary of State say: no, you can trust me, this group will eventually resolve?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u135	There is a group for which a solution is available. However, reality requires us to see that we will probably always have to deal with people who, in any case, are avoiding any form of cooperation. Then at some point there is no other solution. I would like to make the following point. Even though the stay in the Netherlands is illegal, in my view that is still not a licence to commit illegal acts or to commit offences. Let us be very clear about that. This is a small group, compared to the total number of illegal immigrants in the Netherlands, which causes a lot of unrest. There are also people who manage to find a place for the night without all this unrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u136	I have to say that the Secretary of State says that there is always a group that falls apart. On the other hand, the municipalities have a duty of care. They don't want these people sleeping under a bridge, do they? The Secretary of State shouldn't want that, should he? Shouldn't there be some form of shelter for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u137	At some point, you're done with shelter, if people really don't want to. For anyone who returns on their own, there is shelter available. If one goes to the DT&V and they work on return, we have a very large vbl in Ter Apel. Anyone can go there. But it does start with the fact that people comply with their obligation to leave and get on the move for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u138	Finally, I regret to say that this problem continues under this cabinet policy and that debates will therefore continue to be requested, as this group will be on the streets and the cabinet refuses to arrange reception. That's not okay. We shall then continue to hold debates of this kind in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u139	Finally, I would like to say a few words about what I said at the beginning of my speech. No, this cabinet is extremely motivated to try to move the countries of origin to improve the situation in cases where return is difficult. If you are really looking for the final piece of the asylum policy, you have to see that it starts and ends there. Self-employed return is the most beautiful thing, but if people are not willing to do so, we try to talk to the countries of origin to the left or right in order to force people to return.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u140	I would like to point out to the Secretary of State that the debate is about cracking apartments in Amsterdam. Of course, part of it is also about asylum seekers who have been processed, but a wide-ranging asylum debate is not on the agenda this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u141	That was a few weeks ago, too, so I suspect the Chamber would like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u142	May I ask a brief question for clarification, though? I understand that in a few weeks' time we will be informed about the discussions with municipalities about the bed-bath bread scheme. That's what I like to hear. But I now get the impression that for the people who report to the bed-bath-bread scheme, the perspective offered is always outside the Netherlands. But that's not the deal, is it? The idea is that people can be in that bed-bath-bread scheme and that a perspective is being looked at, possibly in the Netherlands if there is no perspective outside the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u143	A correction: where I said "a few weeks" is about the post of Afghanistan. I'll inform the Chamber about the ITVs as soon as we agree with the municipalities. I don't have a glass ball when that's gonna be. For this group, which no longer has legal residence in the Netherlands, the first goal is of course return. Other options are only dealt with if you go through the whole return process with those involved and then prove that it is really out of the fault of the person concerned that it is not possible to return. This is therefore a consequence of, but not a premeditated objective of the project.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u144	I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by joining what has just been said by my colleagues in the field of justice and security. I will make a few additional comments and answer questions that have also been put to me. First of all, I would like to say that the Amsterdam City Council and the College of B and W of Amsterdam have discussed this issue in detail. I have noted with you that a call has been made by the city council to urge the property owners to postpone the evacuation. By the way, and a number of comments have just been made about this, we are talking about a group of squatters who used to focus on vacant premises. This makes this situation special, because it is now about residential homes in a residential area. They are, by the way, 'in the direction of Mr Van Dijk', because they are houses that were already designated for demolition. So in the technical sense, it's about emptiness, on its way to demolition. But of course there are many house seekers, students and others, who would like to stay temporarily in those homes, even when it comes to homes that will be demolished. The fact is that the owner of the premises, Ymere housing corporation, reported that the premises were cracked. The fact is that in an interim action on 26 April last, the judge ruled that the squatters must have left the premises by 1 June at the latest. In short, the primary competence of this issue lies with the local triangle, as has just been argued. That's the way it is in the Netherlands. I think it is also appropriate in our relations that a national government should not interfere too much with the autonomy of local authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u146	In my view, it is not in a democracy that laws adopted in the Chamber are not enforced. The prosecutors themselves have drawn up a directive which states that in special circumstances it is possible to evacuate: in case of trespassing, which is also said by the amenities court, in case of criminal offences and destruction, what has been established here, and in case of illegal habitation causing a dangerous situation, what has happened here. How does this minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u147	This Minister is of exactly the same opinion as the Minister has just said, because the cabinet speaks with one voice. This question has just been answered by my colleague, Mr Grapperhaus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u148	I think that is too easy because I want to hear it from this minister himself, who answered the question and therefore started it himself. I would like to hear from this Minister what she thinks about the fact that this directive has apparently been adopted. We have just spoken with the Minister about what he thinks of this directive. As far as we're concerned, it's off the table, but it's there. If the welfare court says that this is the case, what does the Minister think about the fact that there is still no evacuation, and that the Amsterdam triangle is all right with it in the end? That is the question I would like to put to this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u149	I hear Mrs Van Toorenburg for the second time, and I give her the second answer that Mr Grapperhaus has just given. I began by saying that I fully agree with what my colleagues have just said. I would therefore like to confine myself to answering the questions that lie in my area, in particular those put to me by Mr Koerhuis of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u150	Finally, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u151	So the Minister does not have an opinion on the facts that I am referring to this Minister, which is really very gloomy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u152	I don't think I'm supposed to be giving my opinions here all the time. The cabinet is here to answer your question, and that is what the cabinet has just done. Mr. Chairman. Mr Koerhuis had two questions which I would like to address. These questions are reflected in the proposals made by the College of B and W. I make a distinction, as Mr Koerhuis himself did, between two things. Firstly, the request made by the College of B and W to Ymere. I think Mr Koerhuis also knows the letter sent by the College of B and W. That is a letter which states that the College has struggled somewhat with the question they have been asked, including through a motion, by the city council and the interpretation they have given to it. It's not like the request to suspend the evacuation for a certain period of time is something you can destroy. It is a situation where justice is simply open, and the call as such, namely a request to Ymere, has no legal effect at all. A call like this is for that reason not at all a decision that can also be destroyed. That is my answer to Mr Koerhuis' first question. The second question by Mr Koerhuis referred to a situation which could arise but which has not yet arisen. Mr Koerhuis outlined the possibility of a decision by the college to house a group of squatters with a certain price tag which Mr Koerhuis put on it. However, this is a scenario which has not yet occurred and which has not yet been achieved. In my view, if it were to be achieved, this would be primarily a municipal responsibility and matter, on which the Amsterdam City Council is also accountable. So point one: it is not yet on the agenda. Point two: it's a local issue. Thirdly, if something like this were to happen, and Mr Koerhuis and others would still believe that this should happen, then it is my role to assess whether something is happening that is contrary to the law or to the public interest. However, I very much support the principle of municipal autonomy. I think it is primarily up to the city council of Amsterdam to judge this, after the college has done the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u153	The college has decided, in whatever form, to ask owners of cracked buildings not to file a report. To my left or right, that's a decision for me. I ask the Minister to reconsider really destroying this decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u154	I'm sorry, what exactly are you asking?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u155	I ask the Minister to reconsider destroying that decision. Otherwise, I'm gonna come up with a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u156	That is also a bit difficult when we talk about an issue that is going on there. I judge on the basis of the documents I have: the letter from the College of B and W and the motion that has been adopted. On this basis, I note that the College of B and W, after having already been notified, wrote in the letter that it wished to convey the request not to make a request for evacuation. The letter is, in my view, very good on that point, because it is repeated on several occasions that the B and W College must of course comply with the law. The report had already been made and then the judge gave a ruling. We will have to wait until 1 July, but I understand that everything points out that they will follow suit. There is therefore no question of a decision but merely a request. There is no decision that you or I can recommend for destruction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u157	Then there is my second point. Kraken is a felony, squatters are criminals. If a college decision is taken to reward those squatters with €1,500 per month... I understand that the college decision has not yet been taken and that you cannot destroy it now, but I would like to be given the assurance that it will be destroyed if that is taken. It can't be that a crime is rewarded in Amsterdam. If not, I will make a motion on this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u158	The situation presented by Mr Koerhuis has not yet arisen. In this respect, it is extremely difficult to have an opinion on this at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u159	I'm sorry, but that left-wing city council over there and the college are really considering that. This is really playing there! I want the cabinet and otherwise the House of Representatives to give the signal to Amsterdam: we are not going to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u160	I think they are listening very carefully to Mr Koerhuis. For my part, let us wait and see what happens next. I would also like to say to the Chamber: is it not primarily an issue of Amsterdam? Is it not up to the Amsterdam College and the city council to judge this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u161	In general, governance is also a bit forward-looking. That's not behind the facts and then reacting to it. There have been certain facts and the Minister indicates, very persistently, that it is a local matter. I would simply like to ask the Minister, apart from all kinds of legal implications and from the legal context, from heart to heart: what do you think of that as a minister? Let us do that, without all kinds of legal context and guarantees and ifs and buts. What do you think of that? Isn't this a cross-municipal interest? Surely there is something about this that is at stake here, which is the basis of the rule of law? I am referring to the statements, a law that is not complied with and judgments that are not complied with. What does the Minister think of that? Can you just do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u162	Mr Bishop asks me for a ruling, but I would remind Mr Bishop... I think it's a nice way to ask a question, all the more...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u163	That's what Mr. Bishop always does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u164	Indeed, Mr Bishop always does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u165	I do my best for it, but sometimes it fails and then: excuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u166	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, As Mr Bishop knows, I have been an alderman and the enforcement of the law is paramount to an alderman. Nor did I just say to Mr Koerhuis for nothing that the letter from the College of B and W which I have seen is exhausting in repeatedly saying that we are in such a state as we are all bound by the framework of the law. That doesn't say once, not twice, but three times. So there is no doubt about that in Amsterdam. I'm glad. I think it is quite obvious that this is the case. It's about this group in this case, but if it's about cracking in general, there's a law. There is a law and that is what the municipality of Amsterdam should comply with. And that's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u167	Thank you for the response, but I think that is precisely the last point that the debate is about. The question is whether this way the law is implemented faithfully. By the way, if a college of mayor and aldermen tell three times in a letter that they're obeying the law, I'm gonna get suspicious. I'm like, "Mist, smokescreen, fog." I would like to ask the Minister to act more proactively: simply to set clear limits and frameworks here. Does the Minister see opportunities for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u168	I agree with Mr Bishop that borders and frameworks are important. That is what this Chamber is proposing, which we are putting together here as legislators, and that is what we are doing in this case. What we must strive for together is to assess whether these laws and frameworks are in place. If they didn't meet, you could change them; that's what we've just been talking about. In this case, I do not see that there would be a situation in which it would be necessary for us to destroy decisions as Mr Koerhuis asks, or otherwise have doubts about what the College of B and W intends to do here, as they themselves wrote in their letter. In my view, this does not lead to suspicion at all, but rather to confidence and the conviction that this is being carried out in an appropriate way in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u169	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u170	Mr. Chairman. Actually, I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u171	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office and give Mr Koerhuis the floor. Speaking time is one minute and twenty seconds, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u172	Okay, one minute twenty. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Amsterdam City Council has adopted a motion calling on the College to ask owners of cracked buildings not to report and to prevent enforcement of the anti-cracking law;]] [[noting that the College has decided to carry out this motion;]] [[Whereas a college should not be asked not to report and should maintain the anti-cracking law;]] [[calls on the Government to have the College Decision annulled by the Crown,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Amsterdam College is considering housing the group of 100 squatters for €1,500 per squatter per month in a former prison in Amsterdam-Zuid;]] [[considers that this is an absurdly high amount and that it rewards bad behaviour;]] [[calls on the Government, if this college decision is taken, to have it destroyed by the Crown,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Koerhuis, Van Toorenburg and Bisschop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31560-42]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Koerhuis, Van Toorenburg and Bisschop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31560-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u173	That's right. These are two motions for a decision by an autonomous municipality, so I repeat the VVD, which always calls upon me to destroy it. What about this sacred autonomy of churches according to your own liberal principles?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u174	The law is the law and it applies throughout the Netherlands, including in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u175	Also in Amsterdam, with VVD directors and a VVD mayor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u176	Also in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u177	Thank you, Mr. Koerhuis. I now give the floor to Mr Fritsma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A squatter gang of dozens of illegals has been going through Amsterdam for years and not one has been prosecuted and punished. That's inexplicable. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the Public Prosecutor to prosecute all illegal squatters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31560-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u179	So these illegals are not being dealt with in criminal law and unfortunately they are not being dealt with in foreign law either. They have free rein on all fronts. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to secure and deport the illegal squatters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31560-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u180	Third motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to criminalise illegality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31560-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u181	My final motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to reduce the number of municipalities that deliberately sabotage the return policy on the Gemeentefonds, starting with the municipality of Amsterdam, which defends the illegality of law-abiding people rather than citizens and homeowners who are victims of it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31560-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u182	Mr. Chairman. You've seen me quite pissed off today. I am well aware of that, but that is because, of course, I saw in the Chamber in 2010 how we did our best to achieve the ban on cracking. In the end, this ban was put in place, and I had to see what really happened to this ban. I really believe that our democratic rule of law will be undermined if a law adopted in the Chamber is not enforced. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Act was adopted in mid-2010, which sets the standard that it is simply prohibited to crack on 01-10-2010;]] [[noting that the law is not enforced as it has been established, thereby de facto weakening the prohibition of cracking;]] [[Whereas it is essential in a democratic rule of law that applicable laws and regulations are effectively enforced;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the ban on cracking is restored,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Toorenburg and Koerhuis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31560-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u183	Mr. Chairman. As long as there is no solution for this group of people and as long as they continue to fall between shore and ship, we will continue to have this kind of debate and we must get rid of it. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a sustainable solution is necessary for the group of undocumented asylum seekers who are not entitled to receive reception;]] [[noting that this solution has been pending for years;]] [[calls on the government to make haste with a humane and lasting solution for this group,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31560-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u184	Thank you, Mr President. I must say that I am also a little proud of Amsterdam. We are sitting here all evening debating people, also from outside, looking into it and there are no less than three ministers on the policy of the Amsterdam city council. I would also like to thank the ministers very much for their contribution. First of all, the Deputy Prime Minister, who says this is a local matter. The Netherlands is a decentralised unitary state. Mr Grapperhaus, the Minister for Justice and Security, said that the Netherlands has a squatting ban and that the procedure is now being followed. I think it's very important that the judge makes judgments. It is clear that intimidation is never acceptable and that violence is not acceptable. Other criteria are also considered when it comes to whether to evacuate. I have also raised the motion of the city council myself, and I have seen that it was mainly in favour of not submitting a request for evacuation pending a new college until additional arrangements could have been made for the very specific group of undocumented who were involved. These additional arrangements are necessary because we have not yet done our homework at national level. I understand that Secretary of State Harbers is working on this and I sincerely hope that this will lead to something constructive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u185	Thank you. Finally, Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u186	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the rulers very much for answering the questions. I would also like to thank them for the content of the reply, but that thank you is a little less. I had a little more ahead of the goat, a little more steering, a little more guidance in this. We cannot hide behind this issue: it is a local issue. No, this transcends the local interest; here is just law enforcement at stake. That is why we have also signed with conviction the motions tabled by Mr Koerhuis. This simply needs action to prevent everyone from doing what is right in their eyes. With that I quote a book of Bibles, the book of Adjusting, in which it is about chaos. I can see the Minister nodding. Mr President, I am therefore making a warm plea. Government, keep your back straight and do something. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u187	Thank you very much, Mr Bishop. That was the second term of office. I'll see if the rulers can go directly into the motions. No, I hear they want to suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u188	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u189	Mr. Chairman. I'll do it very quickly. Two motions are on my property. First of all, Mr Fritsma's report on item No. 44 in which he calls on the Government to instruct the Public Prosecutor to prosecute all illegal squatters. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. Legal principles are opposed to making the distinction to which that motion calls. As I said at the beginning, the enforcement of the Law on Cracking and Vulnerability is separate from the defendant's residence status. I have said this from the point of view that the status of residence is not an excuse or a reason, but we should also not discriminate on that point. I hope, then, that I will respond to Mr Fritsma...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u190	Finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u191	I just wanted to say that I hope that I can vote Mr Fritsma a little more positively with my reaction to Mrs Van Toorenburg's and Mr Koerhuis' motion, but he may want to interrupt first. Or does he want to wait for my response to the motion first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u192	It's about the motion in part No. 48, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u193	Yeah, the motion to part No. 48.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u194	Mr Fritsma. One question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u195	The PVV believes, of course, that all squatters should be prosecuted and punished. Of course, the PVV makes no distinction in this respect. It is also a bit childish to use the word 'discrimination'. The point here is that tonight we're talking about dozens of illegals cracking. That's tonight's topic, isn't it? We are dealing with dozens of illegal immigrants who have been squatting through Amsterdam for years. So if you're gonna crack it, start with these people who obviously caused a lot of trouble in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u196	Mr. Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u197	We're not talking about random squatters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u198	Mr. Fritsma, we're not going to have the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u199	We're talking about squatters who threatened people, intimidated them...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u200	Mr. Fritsma, really about your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u201	My point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u202	Yes, you made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u203	In addition, it is inexplicable that not one of these squatters has yet been punished. My question to the Minister is: punish all squatters, but why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u204	Mr Fritsma!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u205	Madam President. I'll come to the motion in part No. 48. That is the motion by Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Koerhuis. I said in the first term that at least the evaluation that was discussed with your Chamber last year shows that the law on evacuations is really working. It's almost always being evacuated. However, I said that I would like to take up the point of discussing with the College of PGs the evaluation and the enforcement of the squatting ban as far as the prosecution and conviction of squatters are concerned. In fact, I would like to make a commitment to inform the House of this in the autumn. I would like to propose that the Van Toorenburg/Koerhuis motion be retained until the autumn. I do understand the motion, let me stress this for a moment, but if the motion is arrested, perhaps we can also look a little more closely at the term of state law for what is being asked. In any case, the request is to hold the motion so that I can inform the House of that in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u206	I understand what the Minister is saying, but I can't settle for that yet. What we want is for the law finally to be restored. If the Minister can promise us that he will talk to the College about this approach, namely, 'how can we ensure that what is envisaged here in the Chamber is restored?' And so more to the "how," and if he reports to the Chamber about it, I can hold the motion. But if the approach is really spacious, like "we can also see if it's a solution if it just stays the way it is now," then I think we'd rather support the Minister if I just let the motion be adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u207	I appreciate that very much, but I now come to the promise that I will come back to the Chamber in the autumn with an answer to the questions "how does enforcement as it is now relate to the law adopted at the time in 2010 and explained in parliamentary history?" and "if this results in differences, to what extent can enforcement actually do anything about it?'. Is that how you're gonna let me promise you that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u208	Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u209	I'm considering holding the motion, but I'm still looking into it. You don't have to conclude that yet. I'll take a look at that with my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u210	You have until Tuesday. We're not going to vote until then. But if Mrs Van Toorenburg does not hold her motion, what is your verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u211	I would be very sorry to hear that. I would advise against the motion in this form. I want to stress that I...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u212	Then that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u213	Can I just take another ten seconds to point out to Mr Koerhuis and Mrs Van Toorenburg that I understand their point very well and that I would therefore like to show my willingness to come back in this way within six months with the answer to those questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u214	Good. Next move. Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u215	Mr. Chairman. I'll deal with three motions. The motion in part No. I would advise Mr Fritsma, for the reason I explained in the first term. You can secure it at the moment there's a visual on eviction. In this form it is too short through the bend. Then the motion to part No. 46. I have already explained in the first term that the government has no intention of criminalising illegality. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Then the motion to part No. Forty-nine by Mr Van Dijk. When I read this in this way, I feel that the scope of this motion is again wider than the cabinet has in the migration letter and the government agreement. Nor is it the case that all undocumented asylum seekers always depend on the government for a solution, because a lot of undocumented people can be documented tomorrow if they report to voluntary return. For that reason, I would like to discourage the motion. I would remind you of what I said, namely that, of course, we are in the process of implementing the coalition agreement. And for some of these people, that will eventually offer a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u216	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You have, of course, kept a good record of the administration; then you know that I still owe you three motions. First of all, the motion in part No. 42 by Mr Koerhuis and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) Apart from local autonomy, the problem with this motion is that there is no decision with a legal effect. So, as the motion has now been formulated, I would not be able to implement it. That is why I would advise against this motion. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 43 also belongs to Mr Koerhuis and others. It has, of course, just become clear, in the first period, that this is a situation that has not yet occurred. I would not be in favour of this motion, anticipating something that has not yet happened and which has not yet been decided, being put to the vote. Anyway, I'd say it's not the issue right now. If it's ever on the agenda, we'll see about that. So because of the timing of this motion, I'd like to discourage her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u218	Mr. Koerhuis, about the motion? You wanted to say something, I saw.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u219	Yeah, I don't know what else to say but put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u220	Okay. That's your right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u221	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u222	But, Mr President, in particular what the Minister says about the motion in part No. 42 is extremely interesting. She says it's an unexecutable motion. She also says that it is incorrect, if I interpret the Minister correctly. This means that this motion, if adopted, is strictly symbolic and the Minister is not going to do anything about it. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u223	I did use my own words, and those were not Mr Van Dijk's words. What I have just seen is that there is no decision that has any legal effect. And for that reason, if there is no decision, and if there is no legal effect, I cannot proceed to destruction. For this reason, I have argued that the motion as it has now been formulated could not be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u224	I think there's another one, the motion in part number. 47.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u225	Exactly, the motion to part no. 47. That is a motion by Mr Fritsma. I have said a little less about this in the first period, but I might add that the Community Fund is not being used as a sanction instrument. If there are freely expendable funds in the Community Fund, then there are no further conditions for spending. So what Mr Fritsma is saying here does not relate well to how we deal with the Municipal Fund and the municipalities. For that reason, I advise against this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u226	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-11.u227	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the rulers. I thank the Members of Parliament, the people who have followed this debate, the staff, the messengers, the clerks, everyone.
