ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u1	The next item is the Custom Accreditation Act. Seven speakers have spoken for this debate. The first speaker is Mrs Tielen, who will speak on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This bill is the first bill I take as a Member of Parliament and it is immediately a challenging bill. Well, I like things especially when they're not too easy, but still. A short sentence of three words can clarify my challenge. Those three words are: why this now? The ideal answer for the VVD would be: because this bill makes it even better for you, as a student with a Dutch diploma, to know for sure that you have done a good or perhaps excellent education, that your programme stays with the time and that your programme makes you fit to work as a competent and critical professional. However, as the explanatory memorandum states, the accreditation system is essentially functioning well. So what's in it for our students anyway? Or, why this now? On the basis of these three questions, let me give you a little more detail. The aim of the legislative proposal is to reduce administrative burdens and increase confidence. That sounds good, but frankly that seems more like a policy and less like a legislative proposal. The VVD would like to know to what extent the broader context of the policies described by the Minister has already been developed. What quick wins, for example, has the Minister already put in place in the area of administrative pressure? And what are the training courses themselves doing to reduce the experienced workload? The VVD was enthusiastic about the proposal to give students a greater role in the visits, for example with a student panel, but unfortunately we heard that the experiments failed. Can the Minister explain why it has not proved feasible? Does the minister have any alternatives? If that's the case, is there a need for a new law amendment? By the way, the VVD would also like former students to look into quality care, so that it becomes clear to what extent the study really contributes to suitable work. Well, that's already possible. Can the Minister share with us how often, where and how it already happens? The VVD welcomes the pilots on lighter accreditation, which have come on the proposal of ourselves, the SP and GroenLinks. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is better to wait for the results of these pilots first. What is the state of the experiment and when will it start? At what time does the Minister expect results? Do they also affect this bill? Is the proposal now ready for decision-making? In addition to guaranteeing the quality of education, the Minister mentions "innovating and exceling education" as at least as important in the proposal. Nevertheless, the Minister is actually asking for "good" and "excellent" to be removed from the qualifications. It'll make us a little less happy. Therefore, the amendment tabled by the SGP and SP is not something that we jump into, so to speak, because the sector itself constantly assesses its students on the difference between 6.5 and 7+. If you can do that as a sector, you should be able to do it for yourself, we would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u3	Mr Futselaar of the SP wishes to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u4	I am indeed a co-author of Mr Bishop's amendment, as has been the case with Mr Özdil. I think every teacher will say that the difference between a 6.5 and a 7 is often quite arbitrary. If, as is the case now, you first close everything with key dies and learning goals etc., you stimulate desired behavior among students. They know exactly what to do, for example, to get a 6.5 or just a 7. Several bodies, such as the Education Inspectorate, the NVAO and Hobeon, all say that the reliability is not great. Does the VVD not see the added value of deleting these two terms, given the large number of sensible organisations that argue that, just like us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u5	I'm a little self-righteous about that. I have great respect for all the agencies you mention. At the same time I think: yes, the difference between a 6.5 and a 7- may be difficult to judge, but that between a 6 and a 9 certainly is. I may be looking at these things a little differently than Mr Futselaar, but if it's not possible at all to show that you're really doing your best and really showing something better, then you might think: leave the 9, because I'm not gonna get it anyway. Part of this will also apply to training. So we would like that if you show more than average, that is also visible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u6	Yes, but I think that is very often visible in practice. I think an education can show that it has a study programme that works differently than others. I think that training can have an education system that is different from other, very student-oriented or not. I think you could have a new campus. I think you can have more or less foreign exchanges. There is a range of possibilities by which you can distinguish yourself as an education in actual things. The problem is a subjective and, according to various bodies, rather arbitrary term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u7	All the things that Mr Futselaar calls are typical things that I say: if so, then stick 'excellent' on it, because this is actually something that contributes. Subjectivity applies, quite frankly, of course also to all those graduation papers. The sector itself is therefore used, with a high degree of subjectivity, to form a judgment based on both facts and everything that comes into play. So I really believe that the sector that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u8	Very briefly, Mr Futselaar. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u9	Then my observation is that for the VVD the label is more important than the content behind it. The SP doesn't share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u10	May I respond to that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u11	You may respond briefly to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u12	I do not believe that Mr Futselaar has made such a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u13	Mr Van der Molen of the CDA has the floor for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u14	My question is separate from the question of whether, in all subjectivity, lecturers give figures. I do not think Mrs Tielen meant that exactly. My question to her would be next. If the NVAO hands out the "excellent" predicate and on the other hand points out to the public that it is very difficult to do that properly, isn't it time to find a new way to do something with "excellent"? Now we might make an institution happy with a label whose handout says: well, that's very shaky.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u15	I think that Mr Van der Molen ultimately means that the objective we have in mind with something like that does not necessarily hang to the waist, so there is a dependency in it that you should sometimes be able to let go. The VVD does indeed want you to be able to show the label "excellent" if you have things in order above average. Whether the NVAO should do so or another, is ultimately subordinate to the possibility of making this visible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u16	Mr Van der Molen mentioned the NVAO. Everyone knows of course that this is the Dutch-Flemish Accreditation Body.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u17	I will now try to speak less in abbreviations on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u18	Please continue, Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u19	I can skip a bit, because I just said that in response to the interrupters... the interrupters... the colleagues in the Chamber. We are therefore somewhat critical of the relationship between the legislative proposal itself and the objectives to be achieved. If we are to adopt a law, we would also like to be sure that that law also achieves the objectives, especially since some of the things that were part of the bill are not in this. The question to the Minister is therefore whether it is possible to evaluate this law if it continues. If so, in what period would the Minister wish to do so? Can she make us a promise on this or a promise? Well, those were actually my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u20	Thank you, Mrs Tielen. I now turn to the second speaker. That is Mr Özdil and he is speaking on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks supports the objectives of this bill. Accreditation should be based on trust and not just on accountability, so the explanatory statement rightly states. The importance of independence is also rightly underlined. In view of the ambition to achieve these shared objectives, we have a few comments to make. The Minister has indicated his intention to set up a system for certification of secretaries, including basic rules for the working of panels. My group welcomes this, because the role of secretary is important for a well-independent process of judgment. But more needs to be done. I wonder whether it has been wise to push through the drive for total market forces in our society, even in education, even in monitoring the quality of education. Both the inspection and the NVAO... I dare not repeat the term. The Dutch-Flemish Accreditation...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u22	It. The Dutch-Flemish Accreditation Agency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u23	Sorry, Dutch-Flemish Accreditation Agency. I can't get through this accreditation! Both the inspection and the NVAO indicate that there is tension between market forces in the accreditation system and the independence of the evaluating actors. In other words, the private evaluation agencies... I wouldn't use the term myself, but I've also heard words like "cowboys" from people in the field. I am afraid to repeat it on my behalf. Private evaluation agencies compete with each other. This brings with it risks. The Dutch-Flemish Accreditation Body and the inspection observe differences in assessment that are facilitated by the various private agencies. There are also, as I said earlier, signs from practice. I've talked to people who work at evaluators. They indicate that some educational institutions exchange offices on equal terms as soon as they are judged not to like them. Such an agency then misses a lot of revenue, because the judgment "insufficient" becomes a kind of business risk. If the educational institution is a customer at a private evaluator, this institution may be disappointed if the service has not been properly delivered. Mr President, don't get me wrong. Fortunately, most educational institutions are professional enough to separate the level of judgment from the department. But that doesn't apply to all of them. In this dossier, in the opinion of GroenLinks, it is "you ask, we turn," even if only one, one too many. The importance of the independence of evaluation offices is also very rightly endorsed by the Minister. This bill is an excellent opportunity to close those kinds of risks. That is why GroenLinks is tabling an amendment. This amendment does not go so far as to remove market forces altogether, but it regulates the functioning of the market, so that the independence and thus the quality of the evaluation offices are better guaranteed. Our amendment provides for a supervisory role for the NVAO, namely that it assesses the evaluation agencies on quality and discloses which agencies comply with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u24	That is the amendment to item No. 14. I see that Mr Van der Molen of the CDA is trying to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u25	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Mr Özdil has read in the Minister's letter that she is the grip of the NVAO, as I call it, on the secretary of the panel... These are often the people supported by the Bureau to lead the process. The Minister wants to create the opportunity to intervene when their independence is at stake or called into question. Why does Mr Özdil think we should go further? This may be exactly the crux that would allow you to guard independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u26	Mr Van der Molen is right to point this out. In fact, I started my speech by saying that it is a good thing that the secretaries are going to fall under the supervision of the NVAO, so to speak. Only that's not enough, as I said in my speech. The crux... how do you pronounce it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u27	Crux.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u28	The crux, to which Mr Van der Molen rightly refers, is not limited to those secretaries, because evaluation offices consist of more than secretaries. We therefore think it would be wise to remove this crux in the entirety of the evaluators' dossier. We are not yet going so far as to say that market forces must be completely removed. So we are not going as far as Mr Van der Molen suggests. We say: let us make sure that the NVAO evaluates the evaluation offices, not just the secretaries, and reports on them, so that educational institutions know where they stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u29	So, if I understand correctly, there might be a double. The NVAO then has to check on the one hand whether the company is good and in addition she should find something of a secretary. It cannot be the intention to lay down two of these perhaps contradictory tasks there. Do you say, "We'll leave one and do the other?" Or should we take into account in the votes that both options are part of the law? Then maybe we'll do double things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u30	I think that the doubles suggested by Mr Van der Molen are a fictional double. Evaluation agencies are not responsible for evaluation, but for selecting not only the secretary but also the other responsibilities. There is therefore no question of a duplication. There is a certain selection made by the evaluation offices. This includes the secretaries, but much more than that. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the term "excellent," which it was just about. My group supports the opinion of the inspection, the Education Council, the NVAO and others to adapt the differentiated assessment. My group also sees that in a system of so-called peer review the judgments 'good' and 'excellent' are not properly substantiated. The good conversation is, of course, more important than the differentiated assessment. Within that good conversation, the visitation panel can still highlight the good parts of the training. That is why we also support the amendment of the SGP, the SP and now GroenLinks themselves. Finally. Currently, students who do a health or education course pay for the lower legal tuition fee as a second study. That is a good thing, but what is not good is that there is an exception to this for students who have already completed a health or education course and want to do a second care or education course. They do have to pay the higher institution tuition fees. GroenLinks has always said that this is really too crazy for words; among other things, my colleague Lisa Westerveld made a point of this during the budget debates. That is why we are concerned about the letter of amendment that was made at the last moment in this debate, because if I understand correctly, that note will ensure that this process is legally anchored. My question to the Minister is therefore: do we have to see from that letter of amendment that it has been undesirable all along to ask for higher tuition fees for people who had already completed care or education training? If not, why this letter of amendment? If so, why this letter of amendment? For no one can deny the seriousness of the shortage of care and education. More and more we see the immediate consequences: children sent home because of the current flu epidemic, teachers who receive bonuses and recruitment agencies who pay part of teachers' rent. Care also suffers from considerable staff shortages. In short, we need everyone who wants to work in healthcare and education. In the context of appropriate education, wouldn't it only be nice to have teachers who also have a background for concern? That is why I ask the Minister to consider amending the WHW 2008 Implementing Decision on this point, so that students with a completed first study in the field of health care or education also pay the legal tuition fee for a second study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u31	Thank you, Mr. Özdil. I now give the floor to the third speaker from the Chamber, Mr Futselaar. He will speak on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Custom Accreditation Act is based on a good thought. The Dutch accreditation system generally works well, the quality of higher education is generally good and exceptions are rare. If they occur, they are rightly given a lot of attention and criticism, both here and in the media. There is also a negative side to the current system. It is perceived as heavy in terms of burdens. Institutions feel that they should make a financial contribution. And, which is perhaps worse, it takes teachers time to prepare an accreditation, while the teaching staff is usually heavily burdened. A proposal aimed at reducing burdens while maintaining quality can therefore, in essence, count on the support of the SP. As I mentioned in an earlier debate, I was not long ago as a lecturer myself periodically co-object of accreditation. Much of the criticism from the field is recognizable. A significant part of the current system is mainly paper control. And in paper control, in self-evaluations, you run a strong risk that you will be more able to test if you are able to write policy language that matches the current education jargon in the Ministry than that you are actually testing the quality of education. Should there be teachers looking to carry out an accreditation: I notice from the bill that ownership is hip again, so take advantage of it. Senses like "the student must feel ownership of his own study process again" are undoubtedly doing well this period. So reducing these paper reality is a positive thing. I should also like to say honestly that it is not just the accreditation system. Institutions themselves also ensure that there is additional bureaucracy in accreditation, because they also make their own demands, partly because they look at the lists of: who does well, who does the excellent et cetera. That's part of the problem I'll come up with later. What an ideal accreditation looks like: a peer review by teachers, researchers, people from the field of work, with a strong focus on assessment of final works. That's kind of the most objective quality criterion you can put in the end. Furthermore, a critical look at issues such as scrutiny, participation, a conversation with students and teachers. Then you have a reasonable basis for judgment. The SP welcomes the fact that what used to be called a critical reflection and today a self-evaluation is again limiting the jargon change, the SP welcomes it. More radically, you might even ask yourself: should you even ask for a self-evaluation in an accreditation process? Anyway, it's a step in the right direction to give teachers extra confidence. As far as the SP is concerned, it is less obvious that you also give institutions that confidence. The Minister continues to adhere to the quality management institution test. The SP is sceptical about this test. It sounds very attractive. At institution level, you look at issues such as personnel policy and quality management systems and then you basically have to assess training more narrowly. But imagine you're an accreditation panel. You talk to teachers and you find out: they're all capable, they're all excited and they all have a two-year contract. This should create a concern for the future of training, and it is perhaps something to do in a report, but it is also a human resources policy. So you would say that if an ITK was issued to the institution in question, this will not be included in an accreditation. I would like to hear from the Minister that this example is ridiculous and that I am wrong, but otherwise my concern will remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u33	Mr. Futzelaar, an I.T.K.?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u34	I'm sorry, didn't I say that? ITK is the quality management institution test.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u36	This year. Next year it will undoubtedly have a different name. Part of the legislative proposal is that accreditation will no longer expire after six years. The Council of State noted that, from a material point of view, there is no legal difference with the previous legislation. In the written consultation, the Minister more or less acknowledged this, but said: this is an expression of confidence. An expression of confidence in employment is good in itself. The SP does wonder whether legislation is really the ideal way to communicate with the educational field. But because there is also a small limitation of administration, we can live with the superficial change; let me put it this way. What is also contained in this law is the possibility of the Minister withdrawing an accreditation in the interim. That is a good idea as far as we are concerned. Of course, this is a means that must be used in a sparing manner and with great care. You may hope it doesn't have to happen, but our system needs a nuclear option for institutions that really, really don't have their business in order. There aren't many, but I can imagine we all have one or two in mind. Another positive element of this law is the obligation to submit the results of accreditation to training committees. I hope that the vast majority of the training programmes have been doing and have been doing so for a long time. It's pretty obvious, but it's good to include it in the law. However, I would like to stress once again, as I have done before, that it is important for training committees to have the support and facilities they need to deal with all the new tasks, because we are asking a lot of training committees since the introduction of the Law strengthening administrative power. Finally, the elimination of differentiated scales of "good" and "excellent" has already been mentioned. The SP wholeheartedly supports Mr Bishop's amendment on this subject. It's been mentioned before. A series of pretentious institutions also say: we see no reason to maintain this scale, it is not reliable. The survival of the label "excellent," for example, seems to be mainly a result of political will, because who does not want to focus on excellent education? But if such a term can't be quantified, then it's meaningless citation. I'd almost say, why should we stop at "excellent"? Why shouldn't we introduce the "superexcellent" scale, "fabulous" or even "totally chill, you know" to attract students? Those are bullshit terms, but in practice they are as valuable as at present the term "excellent." I see, Mr President, that was enough provocation for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u37	That's right. Mrs. Tielen from the VVD wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u38	I've been waiting for a while. Mr Futselaar makes it very funny but is also a bit cynical, both about accreditation/visiting panels and indeed about qualification. But what does Mr Futselaar think about students getting involved in their graduation thesis or internship report with the difference between a 6 or a 9? Then why does Mr Futselaar think that is more quantifiable than simply the predicate "sufficient" or perhaps "excellent"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u39	If you are currently graduating from a programme that at least gets the predicate "sufficient" and you have written a thesis, there will undoubtedly be a comprehensive form behind it. If you are unlucky, there are about twenty parts of a test mould that are all linked to a learning goal, so that the student can see exactly: hey, on this part of me a critical reflection of one and a half pages is requested. He'll think: let me write that critical reflection, because if you meet that, you'll get 0.2 point to that 9. This is often the practice of graduation at the moment. In theory, could this be done in education? It's possible. Here too, we can work with very comprehensive forms containing all the criteria that education and training should meet in order to achieve this "excellent" standard. At least that is not the case now. That's why I think it's subjective. However, I would not be in favour of doing this either, for the same reason why I am not in favour of it being done in the end. This is because you're knocking out every kind of creativity and you're leading students towards a fixed pattern. And I don't think we should do that with training either. I'm not cynical about accreditation panels. I think they can have a very great added value, but in the form of a conversation between equals where you look at what the pain points are and where you speak honestly about the points of improvement. I do not think the labels "good" and "excellent" contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u40	Okay, your point is clear, but this could be shorter, Mr. Fuzzler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u41	The students I have accompanied in their graduation thesis over the past few years had a slightly different number of A4's. I therefore find it interesting to discuss this again with Mr Futselaar. We are touching each other on the point of actually taking out creativity. But it is an incentive to get the predicate "excellent" on something. That is precisely what stimulates creativity and self-fulfillment to really rise above average. Mr Futselaar must recognize that, and he must recognize that it is worth it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u42	I certainly agree that creativity is very important and perhaps even part of "excellent." But as a former member of the Creative Technology Academy of an undisputed university of applied sciences, I must also say that in practice nothing is more difficult to measure than creativity and nothing is more difficult to test than creativity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u43	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u44	The difference between sufficient and good is, I think, less controversial than the predicate "excellent." Against that last predicate is great resistance. Against "good" is quite a resistance. The difference between'sufficient' and 'good' is, in our view, hardly in practice without giving some subjective judgements. What you can really easily interpret in practice is what is inadequate and what is not satisfactory. This is often relatively easy to describe and in practice most attention will be paid to it. That's how you guard the quality. By doing so, you prevent programmes and institutions from hunting for the best places on ranking lists and complying with supposed requirements of accreditation panels. There are often no bogeymen in there, while people might think so. Because of these things you do not have the open and honest conversation that you really want to have, a conversation that not only does an education learn something from, but perhaps also the accreditation panel and the colleagues who sit there and take it back to their own institution. As far as we are concerned, a simple scale of "sufficient" and "insufficient" is much better in keeping with reality, less subjective and does not encourage unwanted behaviour. As far as we are concerned, therefore, such a scale is only logical. Look, Mr President, I have almost three minutes left of my speaking time. That wasn't so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u45	It wasn't that bad, Mr. Funtselaar. Thank you for your contribution. The next speaker is Mr. Van der Molen. He shall speak on behalf of the CDA. As he walks to the chair, I inform you that Mrs Van den Hul, of the Labour Party, has signed off on this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u46	What we all regret, of course. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group has asked critical questions about the usefulness and necessity of this Customised Accreditation Act. In its response, the Council of State has already indicated that it does not have excessive expectations, if I may put it this way, of the contribution of this bill to reducing the experienced administrative burden of how we organised accreditation. We still have that expectation. In particular, the Minister takes measures of symbolic value in this law. So concepts are written a little more positively. A "recovery operation' becomes an "creditation under conditions' and "no unless' becomes "yes, if'. The tone determines the music, but all in all, no one will fall into the higher education of his or her chair when reading the sum of the measures. Despite the fact that we remain critical of the added value of this bill, my group will support the bill. This is mainly due to the necessary improvements in the letter of amendment to the legislative proposal. This letter of amendment fixes important matters for us in other areas, such as the clarification for the training committees and improvements in the areas of Lifelong Learning Credit. These cases hitch a ride on the bill. These repairs allow us to go over the balance sheet to vote in favour of this bill and give the benefit of the doubt on the other issues mentioned in the proposal. The Council of State calls for a more comprehensive evaluation of the accreditation system. We can support that as a CDA. The NVAO has made a number of proposals based on a strong confidence in the institutions themselves to give their quality care hands and feet. As far as the CDA is concerned, we're following that line. Educational institutions which have a long-term quality in order should be relieved of that continuous cycle of accreditation. That is already the case in Flanders and in the Netherlands we should try that as far as the CDA is concerned. How does the Minister envisage a comprehensive evaluation of the accreditation system and how does the results of the experiment to be launched fit in with this, even in time? I'd like a response from the Minister. In the letter of amendment we see that the position of the Secretary of State was already mentioned by Mr Özdil of the panel that is used externally in accreditation is strengthened and that the NVAO can intervene if the secretary's independence is not guaranteed. That too is a positive point in the proposal. For example, institutions themselves keep the freedom to choose who supports the process, but there are also safeguards in the proposal for a solid end result. In response to the written questions of the Chambers Committee, the Minister announced that he would like to discuss with the Chamber the differentiated assessment of the NVAO. In practice, for example, the NVAO also gives the possibility of "excellent', but it also indicates that it can hardly reliably do so. The educational inspection and others also came to the same conclusion. The Minister also points out that he feels that this is a good thing, because if the NVAO states that it is not reliable to support 'excellent', then in a sense we simply make the institutions happy with a dead sparrow. You get a predicate, but what does that even say? We are therefore also sympathetic to the Minister's reaction to stop doing so, and that is why the CDA wants to support the amendment that Mr Bishop will be tabling in this area, because the NVAO will be relieved of that task. Mr. Chairman. One final question to the Minister, who, in a sense, is touching on accreditation. It's about the training profiles. We ask the Minister if she can arrange for non-cost higher education, as in the MBO, to work together with the funded HBO and the declining field of work to determine the training profiles. We recently understood that non-expensive education in HBO is not admitted to the national training consultation of the Association of Colleges. We think that is a missed opportunity, because in the MBO we see very good results there. We would like the Minister's response on that point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u47	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. The next speaker will now take the floor. That's Mr. Van Meenen. Mr Van Meenen will speak on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u48	Yeah, and that D stands for Democrats, Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Today we deal with the Custom Accreditation Act for a layman three abstract words in a row. Well, that "up" isn't gonna be so bad. However, it is of course important in terms of content for the quality of our higher education. For D66 education is of the utmost importance, because good education provides opportunities for everyone. As an educational spokesperson for my party, I have been hard on this for years. That's why I'm asking myself on every subject that goes through here: how does this make our education better, how does it increase the quality of our education, how does it help students and teachers and, most importantly, how does it provide more opportunities for everyone? Mr. Chairman. Last October I had an interview with my colleague Rog from the CDA in Trouw about how we could improve education. We said together: Minister, more vision like and less rules. More space and trust, we called out. And here is the first result for higher education, because this law, which the minister wants to implement, sets up the system more on the basis of trust and reduces regulatory pressure and bureaucracy. Because teachers often talk about the burden of regulation. It is therefore a good thing that we can ease this regulatory pressure with this amendment of the law. Mr Van der Molen has already said it. In general, you can say that we also follow the suggestion of the Council of State to review the whole accreditation system, also in the light of the fact that we are now looking at a similar system in the MBO, for example. Then it's a good thing we had a good look at this first. I wonder how the Minister looks at such an evaluation. But D66 is also critical, because in that same article Mr Rog and I also said: we need to make education better, but not raise standards. It's always the same story: are you raising the bar or making the run-up better? That is also what is happening in this amendment of the law. This amendment makes it possible to award differentiated judgements. In addition to sufficient or insufficient training, the predicate can receive good or excellent. During the written consultation on this law, D66 was already critical of this. Why wasn't it chosen to let judgements fall well and excellently? According to the NVAO, this difference is often said not to be reliable and it leads to delays and objection procedures which add to the burden, while the purpose of this law is correct to alleviate it. The Minister concludes in her letter on the interim evaluation of the accreditation system that if we want to retain the strength of the system, the so-called peer review, we should let go of the differentiated judgments. The inspection also advises to limit the assessment scale to sufficient and insufficient. This opinion is in line with previous opinions of the Education Council, the QANU evaluator and the ENQA panel. Internationally, too, this wide assessment scale is not common. If this broad assessment framework in the legislative amendment does not conflict with the advice of the experts, I ask the Minister. In fact, she has already given the answer herself in her written contribution. And why would giving judgment be a good or excellent task of the government? The Minister concludes in her letter that this instrument does not do what it should do and that there are better ways to make quality differences understandable. Can the Minister explain how she feels about this? Mr. Chairman. I always compare it to the annual oil bulb test. The government determines which food standards the oil bulb must meet, but the General Daily is then doing the oil bulb test. Well, maybe that's not such a good example. Or was that the herring? I don't remember. It's the orbs, isn't it? Yes. And the herring, I hear. Fine, nice tests, but not from the government. We're not going to ask the government to give the opinion on the best oil ball in 2018, at least I hope so. I say less rules from The Hague. That means more room for education. Because if I have learned anything from that more than 30 years of teaching experience, it is that schools and educational institutions themselves know very well how best to organise education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u49	Mr. Van Meenen, I think Mr. Özdil wants to ask you about these orbs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u50	Yes. I'm getting hungry, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u51	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u52	Yes, Mr. Chairman, you're absolutely right. If there's anyone who likes orbs and herring, it's me, as you might see! But do I understand my esteemed colleague from D66 that he compares education with oil orbs and herring, in the sense that it must be sold on the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u53	No, no, no, not at all. No, I say that we have a government that monitors quality in all kinds of areas. The Food and Service Authority does that with food. The education inspector and the NVAO do so in education. In this situation, I am always very keen on what is and is not exactly the role of the government. That is why the comparison with such an oil bulb test is simple, because the Food and War Authority is simply looking at whether it is sufficient or insufficient. That's the role of the government, but the Food and War Authority will never give the judgment: if you really want to eat a nice ball of oil, then you have to be with baker Van Kampen. In doing so, I have doubts about the role of the government, including in other areas where the government has to measure itself in terms of sufficient or insufficient judgement. That's my reasoning, not to compare schools with orbs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u54	I would like to thank my colleague very much for this answer, because it gives me great comfort. Those words by my colleague from D66 also support the aim of the Green Left amendment. Exactly that, i.e. that market forces do not exist but that market forces are regulated by making the evaluation agencies subject to NVAO. That's exactly the parallel with those orbs and herrings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u55	What do you want to ask, Mr. Özdil?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u56	It's not even a question! It is clear that D66 is going to support my amendment, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u57	Is that what you're gonna do, Mr. Van Meenen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u58	That is a bit of a purpose, because what I am saying is above all a support for Mr Bishop's amendment. This is without prejudice to the fact that I understand very well what your amendment means and that I will seriously consider it. Mr. Chairman. If, therefore, all experts still reject differentiated judgments and even the organisation that should carry them out say that it is unfeasible and unreliable, I seriously wonder whether we are going the right way with this. That is why I am now co-signatory of the SGP amendment, along with all the others who are already under it, which removes this method of giving differentiated judgments from the law. Let us concentrate on judgments that are reliable. For judgment is of sufficient or insufficient importance to the quality of our education. We must do this very well. I do not exclude that there are other ways of achieving more differentiation in the assessment, as we are currently doing, for example, in primary and secondary education. That is above all what I am asking the Minister, but I say that at least we should not do it in this way. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u59	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. Mr Bishop has the floor now. And Mr. Bishop speaks on behalf of the SGP, or the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u60	Yes, Madam President. That's right. That abbreviation has been such for some time now, I should like to mention with some pride.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u61	For 100 years, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u62	Yeah, you're gonna notice some more of that over the course of this year. We are going to mark that appropriately. Madam President. The present bill bears the title of custom accreditation. With such a tempting title you initially tend to draw at the cross, because who doesn't want that, custom accreditation? Nevertheless, we see as SGP some problems and risks here and there. I would like to draw attention to four points: firstly, the labels were good and excellent, and they already passed the review of the second double burden, and thirdly, the risk of phantom legislation, and fourthly, the financial support for underage students. First of all, the labels are good and excellent, Madam President. I had a wonderful reference here to Mr Van Meenen's glowing speeches, but I have heard him make the same speech about smoke sausage, apart from bulbs and herrings. I've always enjoyed that from my place, because that's the real deal. The government has to tell whether a product meets the standards. The taste is judged by society. Standards, hygiene quality, ingredients and food safety must be monitored by the government. If that is the case, then a smoke sausage may be called a smoke sausage and an oil sausage an oil sausage. But if there are no dried grapes in an oil ball, you can't call it an oil ball, at least that's what I'm assuming, because without currants, an oil ball doesn't seem to stagger me well. So we as SGP have always followed that line. When we introduced these labels in higher education, we were not enthusiastic. In the meantime, there are several opinions and reports that indicate that we should stop doing so. Especially the distinction between judgements is sufficiently and well proven to be difficult. It is not only difficult to draw the line, but it also creates wrong incentives and additional administrative burdens. Together with colleagues Futselaar, Özdil, Van der Molen, Van Meenen and Bruins, I have therefore tabled an amendment to delete the judgments well and excellently. The signature still needs to be adjusted, but we'll fix it tomorrow. I hope that the Minister's attitude can now also lead to support for the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u63	That is the amendment to item No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u64	That is indeed the amendment on item No. 12. The next item is double taxation. In 2017, ScienceGuide had a frank conversation between the directors of the University of Inholland and the Hogeschool van Arnhem and Nijmegen. It was about institution-level accreditation and the positive effects it should have. The usefulness of an institution test on quality management is seen, but more is needed if the institutions are to be brought to the fore. Would the Minister like to respond to this exchange of views? Could this not be a reason to take a more concrete look at whether there are duplications in institution quality care, institution tests and tailor-made accreditation and whether they could possibly be deleted? In any case, we have the impression that there are indicators for the assessment of quality, systems and staff that overlap greatly. In any case, the SGP sees a problem when it comes to focusing on the final works. As far as we are concerned, it is not so much a problem that the final level achieved is assessed; that has been in the law for a long time. But the question is, how do we guarantee that level? Since the abuses in higher education it has been decided that the final level will be reviewed by assessing accreditation panels themselves. The most recent accreditation framework still states that at least 15 final works must be assessed per training. Is this a healthy situation in an accreditation system? The status of end-of-work may vary considerably from one training to another. Why is it necessary to do the work of academics again when the robustness of the examination procedures and the quality culture among the staff has been carefully considered? The SGP would like to hear whether the Minister is prepared to discuss whether more tailor-made work is possible, especially on this dossier and in the field of duplication between the various tests. When it comes to quality management, according to the SGP, the law also has a double regime. By means of accreditation, the quality management of institutions is ensured. That's secured by the accreditation. In our view, there is no reason to have a general obligation for quality management which should be monitored by the inspection. Of course, checks-and-balances are needed, because there is a need to check, but you could do with a single check. If you do not do so, there is a risk that institutions will do duplicate work and that this will create additional burdens for teachers and other staff. I would like to comment on the amendment to delete it. That is the amendment to item No. 13, I say out of my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u65	That's right, in part no. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u66	My third point is phantom legislation. The Dijsselbloem Committee discussed phantom legislation in the parliamentary inquiry into educational renewal in secondary education. These are rules that people in education think are legally mandatory, but they do not exist at all. In recent years, much has been done to expel this ghost from the foundational education. The inspection for secondary education and p.o., primary education, has done a lot of good work, all the appreciation for it. The SGP has the impression that it would be no harm in higher education to take a critical look at which rules are now perceived as legal, but which are not really legal and which has brought the sector about itself. For several parts of the accreditation framework, you may ask yourself where the precise legal obligation of an indicator can be found. The SGP would like to ask the Minister to carry out the fundamental education operation in higher education. Think, for example, of the final level achieved: why is it now assumed that final works should be looked at, whereas they were not previously? And what exactly do we mean by the "quality of teachers"? The law also refers to "suitable assessment, review and examination." To meet this, you do not necessarily need what is commonly called a reliable and valid system, but that is what the accreditation framework expects. So you could also shape that in a different way. As far as we are concerned, such an exercise can help to prevent such words from triggering all kinds of undesirable processes. Those are forces that then, as it were, find energy within themselves and confirm themselves, but which can lead to all kinds of unwanted phantom obligations. I would therefore like to endorse with colleagues the plea that, in line with the opinion of the Council of State, we should take the time for a comprehensive critical review and restructuring of accreditation, in conjunction with inspection supervision and any other actors, which will bring you to an intelligent, balanced, single check-and-balance system. Mr. Chairman. Fourthly, financial support for minors. I admit that it seems a little strange to bring this up with this bill, but this bill also pays attention to the financial position of students. That gives me the boldness to stand up again for a target group that is really in trouble: underage students and their parents. These parents not only lose child benefit when the children go to higher education, but also the child-related budget and the single parent allowance. The supplementary stock market will not even make progress for low incomes. Parents with an income of €30,000 go back €1,150. Single parents with an income of €46,000 are declining over €5,000. And that while parents of MBO students simply receive child benefit. It is therefore seen as a punishment for entering higher education as a 17-year-old, while these young people save public spending on education. I understand that this involves budgets, but we regard this as an injustice. My question to the Minister is therefore whether she will do everything in her power to repair this dishonesty. Mr. Chairman. Finally, two questions. The Open University does not appear to have been included in previous legislative proposals, for example when it comes to the Education Committee. Has the government taken a full look at whether this institution has been taken as far as possible in the same way? And the last question. For a few years now, a legislative proposal has been promised to regulate the competent authority in education. This is important, for example, for the appointment of the Minister, if necessary, even if she does not have to use it. In what period can we look forward to this proposal? Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u67	And thank you, Mr. Bishop. I shall then give the floor to Mr Beertema as the last speaker on this first term of office. He will speak on behalf of the PVV, the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u68	You're very complete tonight, Mr. Chairman. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u69	Always, Mr. Beertema!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you have completed an HBO course, or you have done an associate degree, a bachelor's degree or a master's degree: anyone who has invested in a study should be able to rely on companies and providers of any follow-up studies, but also society as a whole to recognise and recognise the value of the diploma obtained. That's what we call the civil effect. The PVV has always called for a lot of attention and accreditation really plays a distinctive role in this. Mr. Chairman. We must not forget that the accreditation system for higher education is coming a long way. We've had some very gloomy times. The elderly among us still remember the diploma frauds in HBO and the total lack of focus on quality. The way the accreditation system acted at the time, or not acting, played a very crucial role. Luckily, that time is far behind us. There are by us, by the department and especially by the Dutch-Flemish Accreditation Organization... or the body it is, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u71	The organ, yes. I also hear a lot of people say the NVAO, but I think it's the NVAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u72	If it's an organ, it's definitely the NVAO. Especially by the NVAO, so, great steps have been taken, and that deserves a compliment. There was a systemic crisis at the time. We've all solved them well. The aim of this law is to give education greater confidence in accreditation. He wants to reduce the burden involved in accreditation. We consider both considerations to be important. The need for careful and thorough accreditation must also be in the DNA of education itself, in all parts. It doesn't help. It's good that the Council of State concludes that - two years after the legal introduction, the administrative burden on institutions had doubled. This not only provokes calculating behaviour of institutions, but also focusing on the accountability of the basic quality requested rather than on the pursuit of higher quality throughout the institution. The latter, moreover, is a reason for me to support Mrs Tielen's speech. We really do not want to get rid of the differentiated predicates. If it is stated here that they cannot be given objectively and that we should therefore get rid of them, I say: I think that is so defeatist. Then let's look for a way it can be more objective. In secondary education we also see that a differentiated predicate is a very good incentive. It is a piece of competition in an area where there is already so little competition and where parents and students have little insight into the choice they make for their future. They can only do an education once. Don't forget that the circus of open days, of all those glamorous leaflets in four-colour prints and all those recruiting stories of all those professionalized departments engaged in communication from universities and colleges, is doing its job well, perhaps too well when it comes to objectivity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u73	Mr Beertema, there are two interruptions for you, first Mr Van Meenen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u74	To begin with: I have only looked it up, it is "the Dutch-Flemish Accreditation Organization." You're gonna have doubts, especially on one of those days when it's a lot about organs and stuff. Mr Beertema rightly praises the NVAO for the work and for the enormous improvements that have taken place, but it is the same NVAO who says from that expertise that it is not actually possible to give those differentiated judgments in a good way. How does Mr Beertema look at the NVAO at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u75	I've already reported that. If the NVAO and the Inspection and I know what kind of gremia state that it's not all possible, I guess so. Then we'll all find a way to do it better or better. Once again, I think Mrs Tielen has argued very well. All these teachers and so on can clearly objectively distinguish the most subtle between sufficient, insufficient, good, very good and so on. The old scale from 1 to 10 was only differentiated. Well, then we'll all have to try that. The question is: are you in favour of maintaining those predicates, in order to maintain that differentiation? That's the point. I notice that the left-wing parties do not want that. The most important thing is not to excel. It all needs to be smoothed out a bit. While the right-wing parties, who are a little more energetic and ambitious in life, find that a nice stimulus. And so am I. We are an ambitious, energetic party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u76	Mr Van Meenen, are you also ambitious and energetic?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u77	Sure. Great appreciation for the fact that my older colleague at his age is also energetic. It's all beautiful to see. But about the comparison with the teacher who assesses a student: he assesses the one student. He can watch it for a long time, do all kinds of tests and do all sorts of things. This is about giving a grade to a class in a manner of speaking, with all the differences between the students, or perhaps at a school. Then you obviously can't do that. That's much more complicated, much more complex than judging one individual student. Does Mr Beertem say, from a political point of view, that I do not care whether it is possible or not, it will happen because I think that is good? Or does he say that the way in which it is now incorporated into the law can be called into question, for example by Mr Bishop's amendment, and then we will look for other ways? What can it be today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u78	It can't be that we're going to lift those predicates; at least we're not. That is a political starting point and we want to keep it. If all this gremia says it can't be done, we're gonna investigate it and try to find something on it. But it has to stay, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u79	Indeed, the SGP has been a very eventful existence, but it has not often been the case that the SGP has been blamed for being mainly left-wing. That's pretty new. That's got its charms, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u80	Maybe you'll get used to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u81	Yeah, yeah. I don't think so. I believe that the differences between Mr Beertema's views and those of the SGP, at least in the present amendment, are somewhat less than suggested. It is not a question of drawing a line through the quality culture, in which the conversation takes place on the basis of the questions: what are we doing well, what better to do, where are the opportunities and what measures should we take? Only, our paths are divided when we have to appreciate the qualifications well and excellently. I don't give a shit about that. I do attach great importance to the fact that it is established that a school simply provides decent work and meets the requirements; point. You can see what the strengths and development points are and where the school can invest more in. Then you get a conversation between colleagues based on those peer reviews about what could be the next step of the institution, of the training. We can find each other on that, can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u82	Yes, of course, we can certainly find each other on that, but in that reasoning can you also add that extra step to that predicate good or excellent? I really don't see the problem. It's gonna be hard, but let's see that as a challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u83	Yes, but the example that Mr Van Meenen has just given is also playing through my head. The assessment of a student or student and the assessment of a course are not entirely comparable. With a student you also talk about his opportunities and possibilities and express that in a figure that can be good or just enough, but with a predicate good or excellent, with a predicate at all, you judge the whole class and give the class a grade as it were. Then you do the parts, the elements from which the class is built, not justice. That's why I have a strong preference for doing it without stickers. Get rid of all those stickers of "go ahead" or "good stuff" you used to get in your notebook.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u84	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u85	Maybe we should talk again at that point to see if you want to put your name under the amendment as well. I still have to file it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u86	I don't think it's gonna work. Of course, the comparison of the oil bulbs, the smoke sausage and the herrings is also very bad. Then a consumer with a product in his hand is in his hand that he can be sure the inspection service of value... What is the name of that service again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u87	The NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u88	... gives some sort of guarantee on that. He puts his teeth in it and he thinks, "This is what I like." Or not. If that were the case in education, I would like to go with you, but in education it is not, because the parents really depend on the communication and information of these institutions themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u89	Mr. Beertema, I suggest you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u90	But you get my point, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u91	I understand your point very well and I think Mr. Bishop too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u92	It is quite difficult with the predicates good and excellent, but let us find a way to do so, because they are important for the educational consumer. Let's see where I left off. In the meantime, the evaluations show that innovations from 2011 have ensured that the system has developed in the right direction. More attention has been paid to content and less to time-consuming procedures. However, the evaluations indicate that the costs of accreditation are still perceived as high and do not seem to be proportionate to the revenues. That's something the Minister should care about, and she did. This law seems to provide for a better balance to be struck between the costs of obtaining accreditation for an educational institution and what it yields. We see that a number of vital aspects of the accreditation system remain guaranteed, such as periodic visits, a central role for peer review and the possibility, if necessary, of withdrawing the accreditation by the Minister. That is why we will support this bill. I have a few more questions and comments. Others have already asked, but we are also looking forward to the new independent evaluation of the accreditation system. A question is also: is the involvement of more students in assessing the quality really necessary to generate more trust? We already see a lot of involvement of students, for example in the training committees. What does it add? Finally, we ask the Minister for a sound calculation of the administrative burden of the accreditation system and, of course, of the reduction envisaged. The results can then be taken into account in the next evaluation. The Council of State rightly notes that too much administrative burden is threatening to support it, and we really must avoid that. Because once again, it has to be worn. That quality yacht must be in the DNA of the entire institute. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u93	Thank you, Mr. Beertema. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. We'll suspend for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u94	The Minister has arrived and she will begin her first term. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u95	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Chamber for its contributions to this legislative proposal on the accreditation system. Let us point out that the quality of Dutch higher education is high. In the last year 96% of the training courses received a positive assessment of accreditation. We want to keep it that way, in the interests of students, of their future employers and of society in a broad sense. The proposal before us is actually about how can we guarantee the quality of higher education for the future? By the government through accreditation, but initially by the educational community itself, which is primarily responsible for this. Quality and quality improvement always starts with the educational community itself. The fact that the quality is generally good in Dutch education, we also owe most of it to teachers, administrators and students. Good education is created in a quality culture in which each other is constantly being critically examined: what can be better? So did some of you. I also represent the quality culture in which teachers can do even better what they are good at, as autonomous professionals who take responsibility, and in which students feel invited to contribute to the quality of education. I believe that this bill is about ownership and trust, as Mr Futselaar said. It's not just a fashion word. I am also really interested in the fact that the educational community is the owner of that quality culture. In its opinion of 2015, the Education Council also underlined its importance. Such a strong quality culture does not focus on rules and indicators, but on teachers and students. The rules are there to stimulate quality. The educational community will be given responsibility if the law also gives more space, if students and teachers can take responsibility and feel responsible. More ownership means that programmes do not ask themselves what to do of the NVAO, of the Dutch-Flemish Accreditation Organisation, but that they reflect on the question: what can we show to give a good picture of our training, what are we proud of, on what points would we like to take any further steps and, above all, what can we learn from each other? Of course accreditation is also a moment of public accountability. And that should also be exciting for an education, because there is also a lot at stake in the end. This is part of training and institutions that want to take responsibility. We do not want to close our eyes to where things could be better. And I do not believe that institutions want that either. But in the case of a good quality culture, and that is also what this bill is aimed at, it is more and more about something other than just being justified. It is about improving and developing. Colleagues, colleagues and students who share their views on the future of education should encourage and motivate it. So with this bill we are working on a better balance between accountability on the one hand and improvement on the other. In my view, it will support and stimulate institutions and training in further developing a stronger quality culture. That confidence and self-confidence in institutions cannot be enforced, certainly not only by law, but I do want an accreditation system that will at least not prevent that confidence. After all, a system that determines in the smallest detail how to be accountable does not show confidence. This is why training has been given greater freedom of form. For example, they decide for themselves what documentation to provide and what location visit looks like. For the same reason, I no longer want to rely on the automatic expiry of accreditation when we see in practice that our education is of a high level and almost all of the courses that obtain accreditation. So I choose a system, and that is the system of the law, which proclaims that maintaining accreditation is the rule, and loses the exception. The legislative proposal before us today is the result of a process that has been going on since the extensive evaluation of the accreditation system by five renowned organisations in 2013. The inspection also recently concluded that the quality of education is still guaranteed, but that improvements are needed to maintain the support for the system. In reply to Mr Beertema's question, I would say that all the relevant points for this legislative proposal have been included in the ongoing review of the inspection. That is what we specifically asked for from the inspection, and that is what she did in her interim report. A steering committee of institutions, students, the NVAO, the inspection and OCW advises not to fundamentally change the system, but to optimize it on parts. The objectives are therefore not only confidence and ownership, but also a system that aims to maintain transparency and guarantees of quality and ensures a better balance between benefits and burdens. A large number of spokesmen also mentioned this as an important objective. These goals have been developed in an interactive process with teachers, students and quality care staff. At the time, your Chamber shared these objectives and then identified the proposed bill as a no-regret option. Of course, there are other choices possible but for the moment this is a no-regret option. But, of course, this bill is not the only one that has been put in place. There's been more. Last year, the accreditation framework was already adapted within the limits of the current law in order to allow the institutions to benefit in some respects from planned improvements. In addition to this bill, the pilot institution accreditation will be launched this year with a lighter training test in order to experiment with a form that is less burdensome and invests ownership more than at present in the educational community itself. Institutions can sign up for these pilots until the end of February. In this way, we can also take the experience of the next evaluation with me later on. Mr. Chairman. I would like to deal with five themes, but first I will deal with a number of general questions. Mr Van der Molen quite rightly asked: what concrete improvements are there really in this bill? It might be good to list these improvements again. However, the bill marks a very fundamental change in accreditation, from "no, unless the quality is in order" to "yes, unless the quality is not in order." That's a very fundamental change. This legislative proposal also strengthens the emphasis on the educational community itself and the responsibility to monitor and improve quality. In concrete operationalisation, this leads to the following. The visitation panel no longer reports its recommendations to the NVAO but to the training itself, provided the basic quality is in order. But the training is the owner, so it should be given the recommendations on the improvements. The training is thus addressed and can also take responsibility for these improvements. The training courses are required to share the visitation report directly, within seven days, with the training committee, because teachers and students are important interlocutors and can therefore immediately discuss the improvements. So they too are being put in a stronger position. A separate chapter of students themselves will also become a standard part of the self-reflection report. With this we lower the threshold and increase the involvement of students. The fourth point on which this bill really changes something is the second chance that the NVAO will receive training if it finds recovery feasible. "Restore" is wrong to have a bad name in the imagery. That is why it is called "conditional accreditation." That is also a concrete expression of trust. We will then get accreditation, but we will have to get to work on improvements in concrete terms. These are four concrete points, the points on which the legislative proposal is now changing. Mr Van der Molen then asked: is it possible that non-cost education could also contribute to the creation of the training profiles? Training sets out its own end-terms. Raising together in the context of national training profiles contributes to greater transparency, comparability of training and awareness in the field of work. The responsibility for this lies with the training. The establishment of national training profiles mainly works as training itself. Those training profiles do not determine accreditation. I think that there is a misunderstanding there that non-costed education would come to stand at a distance because it would have to work with a training profile created in the funded sector and which would then be mandatory. That is not the case. It is therefore not necessary for them to be able to participate in the creation of these training profiles, which are established in the funded education system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u96	I would like to admit immediately that I have tried to make a bridge in the text with the subject of tonight, but it was of course a kind of general question. I have seen some of this with other colleagues. I understand that the Minister says: you should not directly link the accreditation. I'm not. At least I wanted to invite the Minister to give her own opinion on what I have established. Working together in MBO funded and non-costed educational institutions to create a training profile that we all benefit from in the Netherlands, but in HBO that has not become commonplace yet. I asked the Minister whether she could indicate whether she would like us to take that step on the HBO issue as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u97	Again, there is no need to do so. Let's get that straight. It doesn't matter in accreditation. I can well imagine working together on this point once and for all, so I will discuss with the Association of Colleges and the NRTO how they look at this themselves. Can there not be a little more cooperation at this point? Mr. Chairman. The ownership of quality care is increased as training courses experience the visitation as more stimulating and quality care is really the focus of learning from each other. This must be done, for example, in the discussion between training and panel on what is going well and what can be done better. In what direction could training develop further? Learning and improving really requires a different setting than being accountable, because those two are sometimes at odds. There is therefore a distinction between establishing quality on the one hand and making recommendations for the further development of training on the other. The NVAO remains closely involved in the function of accountability because it plays the formal role on behalf of the government. This also fits in with the distribution of responsibilities that we have, but institutions themselves are responsible for improving quality. Thus, when the basic quality is in order, the NVAO is no longer involved in the improvement function. This is reflected in the separate development discussions between training and visitation and a separate report. The visitation panel reports separately on the recommendations for further development of the training. These recommendations end up there in the first place and, of course, in the participation process. Eventually, the institution will make them public itself. Training must also be able to learn from each other. The visitation groups offer a good opportunity for this, says the inspection, but the visitation groups should not be too large for that. Because from the institutions the sound came that these large groups do give a high workload, I asked the NVAO to reduce those groups. This promotes the quality of the enhanced conversation. Together with the VSNU, the Association of Colleges and the NRTO, I would like to discuss what the institutions themselves can develop in order to increase knowledge sharing about this improvement. These measures together should have a further incentive effect on quality culture and work together to improve. Mrs Tielen asked if I have already worked on the policy objectives. What quick wins have already been achieved and what do the training programmes themselves do, in addition to the improvements we have made in the legislative proposal? As I said, the NVAO already achieved a quick win by adjusting the accreditation framework by the end of 2014. There is more clarity about the necessary documentation and a limitation of the scope of the visitation report. At the end of 2016, the accreditation framework was halved in size. That really is a big reduction. A lot of details have been taken out. Within a number of institutions, more critical thought is already being given to what they really want to show when visiting and how they want to organise the location visit. Those are also quick wins from the evaluation. In addition, the NVAO has started with more compliance assistance, such as information days. Think of information from the NVAO about the institutions how they can do better and how they can collectively reduce the burden. As I said earlier, an important objective of this bill is to strengthen the ownership of that entire educational community and to give students in particular a good role in it. They are not only the most direct stakeholders, but also experience experts. They really play an important role in quality management. A good discussion with students and teachers about: how do we work together to improve quality? We already know in the law a number of regulations concerning the involvement of students, for example the requirement that a student always sits on a visitation panel and that the panel should always speak with students. We want to further promote this involvement. This is why students also have the right to make their own independent contribution to the self-evaluation of the programme. As a result, the panel eventually gets a better idea of how students look at the quality. This appreciation of students also gives clues for further improvement. The training committees are getting more firmly positioned and, as I said, the panel's recommendations should be shared within a week so that there can be a strong debate in those training committees on improving quality. Mr Bishop asked, within the framework of the training committees, whether we have looked at the full scope and whether the Open University has been treated as much as possible equally. The answer to that is yes. They have really been treated on an equal footing and participation is treated in the same way as in the other institutions. Some of you rightly asked about the reduction in the burden that the legislative proposal for institutions brings. You often hear of teachers and institutions: we have no difficulty explaining what we are doing, to be accountable, but those burdens must be proportionate and also contribute to improvement. One of the important goals of this bill is to reduce those burdens. One of the important measures taken to this end is to eliminate overlap between what is happening at educational level and what is being assessed at institution level. All in all, I would like to say to Mr Beertema that the overall reduction in the cost of this bill is about 9 tonnes. That is a considerable reduction in the administrative burden in higher education. But it's about institutions. We often hear, even when it comes to workload, that it is not only the actual costs that can be calculated in terms of costs, but also the costs experienced. These are determined not only by the amount of work that needs to be done, but also by the significance that teachers and other employees give to it. One must be able to see and know the usefulness and necessity of these rules and their accountability: to what extent does this contribute to the quality and development of my training? It must be worth more than just the stamp of the NVAO. That's what most people do. It must really contribute to a positive quality culture within the institutions. With this bill we want to contribute to those experienced benefits and burdens. The law is being worked out in a framework. This framework is often defined by evaluation agencies and this interpretation often works through the way institutions set rules on the interim assessment, trial visits and so on. I don't know who it was anymore, but someone was talking about phantom law; it was Mr Bishop. You sometimes see phantom legislation in translations, because of a kind of uncertainty in these translations, more and more additional rules are introduced. By making a clear separation between the responsibility and the improvement part in this bill, we say: give back some confidence and thereby reduce that phantom legislation. But here too we hope to make a move with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u98	I see Mr. Futselaar of the SP has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u99	Yes, Mr President, because this seems to me to be a natural pause in the Minister's speech. I think I agree with large parts of what the Minister says. You want to lower the burden, you don't want useless accountability et cetera. We are now dealing with a law in which we are making progress, but we also want to look to the future. Can the Minister imagine that at some point, for example, we would completely abandon the self-evaluation? We could say: why should we start such accreditation with a large document of 15 to 20 pages? Why are we even doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u100	This is almost a question of conscience: can I imagine? We're taking a good step now. Yes, I can imagine that we are moving step by step towards greater confidence and less workload in this self-evaluation. However, I think that from the evaluations we have now, the step we are taking now is the step we need to take. In reply to Mr Van der Molen's questions, I will say later that we must continue to think about how this accreditation can become less detailed and lead to a less detailed workload at the level of education. Because I think that I agree with you that there will still be success there in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u101	That's what I'm doing, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u102	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u103	Mr Futselaar also referred to the double burden of the ITK. For example, if there is an ITK and staff policy is taken into account, there is a limited training accreditation which still looks at the quality of the teacher team. Mr Futselaar asked: what if they all have a temporary contract in themselves, can the panel look at that? Yes, we can, because I think the panel should also be aware of the continuity of quality. Let's say that the panel has to say that there are all good teachers here and the team looks good, but we know that long before we get back here, all those people have left. I can hardly imagine that a panel would have no comment on that. As regards the burden, Mr Bishop asked: should we continue to look at that final level? In the Netherlands, we think it is important to see what the final level actually is. I do not think that this was only due to the abuses in higher education that Mr Bishop mentioned earlier. After all, if you look at the realized final level, you'll actually see whether it's shown whether an education actually trains you to an HBO or WE-worthy level. In the case of accreditation, it shall be assessed whether the training demonstrates the achievement of those final qualifications. Of course we do that layered. The mid-term review will be reviewed. What does the quality of the training look like? But there's also an interest in that final level. This can certainly be done with customisation. If, for example, a sample of the final works shows that a large part of the final works do not have a good enough level, the sample can then be expanded again to see if it really gives a good picture. But this is part of a lot more that the panel is looking at. In these final works, however, you can determine whether the training is training up to the level that is intended. There is therefore quite broad agreement that it is good to look at the final level. So I would not want to change that at the moment either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u104	There may be some confusion between the words "end level" and "end work." The need to look at the final level is not under discussion as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u105	I mean the final work, because it shows you very well what the final level is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u106	Yes, that is a part that can be useful, but the question is what weight should be attached to it and whether that is indeed always the kind of master test it seems to be. Where this is not the case, the status of such a final work can also be different from where it is. That is actually my argument: let us keep a close eye on the final level, but let us also look at the different ways in which this can be achieved by training. In fact, in some training courses, final work can be looked at and in others it may be much more a kind of cinematic development of what has been achieved in phases. So that's actually my plea, to see what can be done about customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u107	But I believe that this is possible because the panel always looks at the whole and will therefore also look at the role that final work plays in the training. That will therefore also be weighted as such. Of course, the final work must always be seen in the context of that training. In my opinion, that customization is indeed possible. It would also be crazy if it weren't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u108	Very briefly, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u109	I would ask the Minister to reconsider the indicator that 15 final works should be assessed or reviewed. If that is the indicator, it doesn't leave so much room for customization for a training where a final work takes a different position. I would therefore like to make that point about the status of the final work very clear in terms of tailor-made work. If the Minister says that this can be done, I think that is an improvement on the somewhat strict wording in the framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u110	It says that 15 final works must be assessed. I just indicated that if there is any doubt about this sample, one can even look even better. A number are needed in all training courses to see what the quality of the final work is and whether that also gives a good picture of the final level, but the number does not say anything about how that final work is taken into account in its entirety, because that is ultimately up to the panel to do. But you always have to have a reasonable number to be able to judge it at all. So I really think it's two different things: is it tailor-made in the number or in the way it's judged? I think you'll always have to have a reasonable number to judge it at all. Mr. Chairman. Then there is one of the most important issues or key points of this debate, which I have already mentioned in the interim report of the inspection, in my letter: the assessment scale for accreditation. The inspection was just very clear about that, and so was the Education Council, the NVAO and the international panel of the ENQA. They actually say: the differentiated judgments as they are now, we should not do so, because they give rise to discussion, which are not really easy to determine, there is a lot of noise around them and you should not really do so. You may wonder if you should call it the oil or the herring, but the government is really there to determine the basic quality. We must encourage the discussion within the training courses to improve. Perhaps there are also better ways to look at it differently, for example the National Student Survey. But when we see all the arguments in a row, we also see that students really don't need them and say that it doesn't really play such a role in choosing the programme. Internationally, too, it is very unusual to work with differentiated judgements. In Flanders they tried it for a while, but they came back to it. Also in other countries. Sweden has had it for a while and has also come back to it. Hungary is actually the only country that has it at the moment. I do not know whether Hungary should be an example to me on all fronts right now. In fact, there are many more arguments to not do it than to do it. Frankly, I was very pleased with Mr Bishop's amendment. That saves another letter of amendment. If the evidence of "don't do it" is so convincing, we just shouldn't do it right now. So I would like to thank the Chamber for the amendment that has now been tabled with broad support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u111	I hear the Minister say she's happy with the amendment. That's a really different opinion from mine, but we've already talked about that. But now the Minister says: shouldn't we differ in judgment at all? Or does the Minister say that maybe the way we do it now isn't the way we want it to be? I would like to understand that more clearly from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u112	Also internationally you can see that accreditation in higher education is not actually happening anywhere. If I let all these judgments get to me, I wonder what added value it has. Students don't like it. Who do we do it for, then, is the question. What I also found to be an important warning in the opinions that were there, which you have to look out for, is that these differentiated judgements are actually going to stand in the way of the quality conversation that must take place within the educational institution and that every effort is going to be made to get the judgment right or excellent and only to steer it. This hinders the quality culture in the institution rather than contributes to it. I found that in the many opinions that are before us quite convincing arguments that perhaps you should not want that at all here and that, in addition to what you as a government have to guarantee, namely that the basic quality is in order, you should take other ways of differentiation. Such a National Student Survey might be more on the road, because it is also about what students think of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u113	I'm just trying to deduce what the Minister says. Does the Minister say that sufficient is always good enough, because no one needs to know if it is more than enough? Or does the Minister say that I have seen other methods to really see the difference between okay and really good, and I am willing to dive into that to make that difference just as easily?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u114	You're asking me if I'm willing to look at other ways. I think we should get back to the question why you'd want it. Frankly, when we talk about how we can best promote a quality culture within the institutions through an accreditation system, what I believe we want to keep and what we want to support, there is still little convincing evidence that differentiated judgements contribute to this. In any case, I think, and the experiences from abroad, where they have tried and come back from, that underlines that they do not actually contribute to that. Then the question is, why would you do it? I think that that question needs to be answered before you start looking for another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u115	Why would you do it? Because I don't want to have the choice between a Trabant and a Trabant in white and white. People want something different. People want more to choose. That's what I'm talking about with that gray, unitary sausage that's getting you through this. First I hear that abroad actually has a very poor accreditation framework. Then you come up with the story: they have tried but it does not work; we accept that. You do indicate that the students themselves can add something to that. What would be against looking creatively for ways to involve that student model, for example, in the accreditation framework? That would be an entrance, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u116	Students are already involved in the accreditation framework. The only question to be asked is whether student involvement in accreditation does not hinder the strengthening of the quality culture if it leads to differentiated judgements. I think you should take a serious look at that. If you want a differentiated judgment, you also have to ask: why do you want it? What's that gonna do? What is the improvement that the student experiences in concrete terms? At present, I find nowhere convincing arguments or studies that say: those differentiated judgments really contribute to the quality of education. And that's what we have to do in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u117	Then we come to the picture that is enough good enough. I find that shabby. I think it's flattened. I think it's a unit sausage. Do you agree with me? "No."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u118	No, I do not agree with you, because as some of you made quite clear: you have to ask yourself where the core of the government's task lies. This is often the basic quality guarantee. Then there's so much more that's distinctive. Apparently, students often make a choice between an education or an institution, based on all kinds of judgments. I do not believe that they call it flattened unity sausage, as you do. But before you introduce a whole system of differentiated judgements, you must first want to ask the question what that contributes to the quality of education. The label an sich does not contribute to this. At least that is the lesson we can now learn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u119	Madam Secretary, I would suggest that you continue to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u120	Yes. An important theme for you is the independence and expertise of the secretaries and panel members, and rightly so. The independence of the panel members must be beyond doubt. I think everyone agrees on that. The inspection did not find any shortcomings in that regard in its report. I think that is a very important observation. With this bill, we are also going to ensure that the independence of the secretaries is guaranteed. Now Mr Özdil wants to go one step further. He says: I also want to ensure the independence of the evaluation agencies. Maybe an important point in advance. An institution or even its secretaries shall in no way be obliged to employ an evaluator. That's not an obligation. With the amendment you are proposing on this point, you are actually going to legally anchor those evaluation agencies, which we had just taken out of the law in 2011. It is important that the panels of peers assess. The evaluation offices do not assess. It would follow from your amendment that the use of these evaluation offices would become an obligation. It's not that now. It actually creates a new intermediate layer in the accreditation system. This makes the weather more complex and leads to additional burdens throughout the system. As far as I am concerned, this is about the independence of the panels and the secretaries. It's well-protected. That is why we also have additional legal safeguards around the secretaries; that is really important. These agencies are not obliged at all and do not have to play a role at all. There is great freedom. I do not think it is wise to give them a role again in the legal system. That is why I would also advise against that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u121	Mr. Özdil, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u122	We, too, naturally welcome the step taken in relation to the secretaries. However, our amendment is not about making these evaluation offices compulsory. The Minister is quite right that they are not mandatory now, but in practice, as an educational institution, you do not get out of it. My question to the Minister is: does she agree with me that... or no, let me put the question as follows. Does the Minister consider that ensuring the independence of secretaries through an inspection by the NVAO is sufficient to achieve the objective of an independent, fair evaluation, without the perverse incentives of market forces?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u123	Yes, that is also what the inspection recommends: ensure and guarantee the independence of secretaries. That's how you realized the deposit that was missing. I do not see any need to give the evaluation offices a role in the whole system. Then we are putting the system back together with new burdens, and I think we want to get rid of them. Mrs Tielen asked about the state of affairs surrounding the pilot. Until the end of February, people can apply. There is room for up to six higher education institutions. From 1 September 2018 you can experiment with lighter training accreditation. The pilot is in line with the objective of this legislative proposal, but actually goes a step further than the law now goes. I will inform the Chamber as soon as the pilot has started, so that you know at which settings we conduct that pilot. In that context, Mr Van der Molen asked: why are we not going one step further? Why don't we really work with that institution accreditation like Flanders instead of a pilot? I would like to say the following. We now have this bill and the pilot. In the Committee of Ministers we recently had a first oral evaluation of the Belgian system. That sounded good, but it still needs to be looked at in greater depth. Some of you asked: when will the next review of the law come? We'll do that in four years, in 2022. Then we also have the good information about the pilots. I can well imagine that, in the light of the experience that has been gained in Flanders, we will then have another discussion on whether we should not go back to that system. I agree with you that there may well be considerations to take that path step by step, but I think we should first take a good look at how things are going in Flanders. It could just be a next step. Mrs Tielen said that these student panels failed; what would replace them? Everyone was positive about the idea of these student panels. ISO and LSVb have started to do this, but have found that they do not come out well and have abandoned the idea. We do see that students are always involved through the training committee; this is also enshrined in the legislative proposal. Students can also have their own chapter in accreditation. Together with ISO and LSVb, the Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences has looked at how to further increase student involvement in accreditation and how to share best practices in this context. I will continue to work with them together to see if there are good ways in which student involvement can be further strengthened. Mrs Tielen also asked about the involvement of alumni. Yeah, there may be, but you don't have to. Alumni have already left the training, no longer have a current image and feel very different involved. But if an education wants that, she can involve alumni. This also happens in a number of places, but that is really about training. Mr Özdil asked about the tuition fees for second studies. Boarding is also often a choice. The resources are finite. For students in care and education there is an additional possibility to pay only the statutory tuition fees and not the institutional tuition fees for a second study. You gave the example of someone who does two care courses or a training in both education and care: why not? You have to make choices. Our resources are limited and we need to look at what we can spend them most effectively. Someone can't work in education and care. So we know that the investment only comes back in one of these sectors. There are always arguments conceivable why more people should be encouraged, but I have to make a choice. If you say that this should also be possible, you should also indicate who should not be encouraged. My resources are finite in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u124	Thank you to the Minister for her clear answer. I do not know if I fully agree with her when she talks about the distinction between people who are in care and education and want to continue in either of them. I know practical examples of people who have a logopedic education and want to go to appropriate education, using their logopedic skills. What the Minister says about limited resources, I understand. Can it also indicate how limited these resources are? How much would it cost to make this possible for those people anyway? And why is this not possible within the current budgetary framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u125	No, I can't give you that in concrete terms at the moment. There are endless combinations imaginable. Then you would create a new open-ended scheme for people who, for example, have already completed health education and also want to receive education. So I can't tell you that right now. To make things like this possible, choices have been made. In this context, consideration also plays a role in how effective that is. We know that such a person will not immediately work in both sectors. There are always exceptions that you might say: there would be some reasonableness or fairness in that. But that's not what was chosen at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u126	I understand all that, but when the Minister says that resources are limited, I think that we in the Chamber owe an answer as to why exactly, how much it would cost and why it is not possible within the current budgetary framework. My question to the Minister is whether she can explain this further. That doesn't necessarily have to be tonight, but can also be through a letter or something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u127	We make an annual monitoring of accessibility and this type of choice. I suggest that I go into that monitor in more detail about what it would cost and whether we have an estimate of how many people it is about if you would further encourage the accumulation of studies in deficit sectors. Mr Bishop asked about the position of minors and the difference between MBO and HBO. That's a little questioning about the familiar road. You also know that when the legislation was drawn up, the choice was made that study funding or the use of the student advance in higher education does not go hand in hand with child benefit, even if students are underage. There's a difference between MBO and HBO. That choice was made in the law at the time. You can always come back to that, but it is actually a choice that is not entirely within the framework of tailor-made accreditation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u128	I see two people standing at the interrupting microphone on an issue that is not really the subject of the debate. As Mr Bishop has asked for it, I give him the opportunity to ask for a brief answer, but let us not dwell too long on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u129	Thank you for your kindness, Mr. Chairman. It is right that I raised this proposal because the proposal itself also talks about the financial position of students. I am concerned about the fundamental injustice that exists. It concerns two young people of the same age. One MBO and the other does an HBO or university course. There's a difference. I can imagine that if you have a scholarship system that we once had, but that has been gone for some time. Now that we are talking about a loan system, that difference can no longer be justified. I have much more the idea that financial motives are the reason why this distinction, this injustice, is maintained. That's why I'm going to keep asking for it over the next few years. You're gonna get your chest wet, but you're gonna have to put an end to this difference in treatment. I thought the Minister was also representing a party in favour of equal treatment. Well, if she can deal with something the same, it's at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u130	Your request is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u131	I am certainly in favour of equal treatment, but in equal cases. These are not equal cases. When this system was made, a very clear choice was made. You can't be funded from one system or another. They're not equal cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u132	Mr. Fuzzelaar, about this, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u133	But, Mr. Chairman, I don't need so much in second term. These are poignant cases. I do not entirely agree with the Minister that a choice has been made here. Here a choice has been made with another system that had scholarships. Now there are loans. Does the Minister not agree with me that it would be reasonable, looking at the reality and real problems of families, to see whether a solution could not be found, regardless of the budgetary framework within which it is to work? It's really bothering us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u134	The question is whether a solution cannot be considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u135	No. The final question is whether higher education is accessible to students. That accessibility is not so much determined by whether you are 17 or 18. This does not make the financial starting position very different. You know that tuition is cut in half for the first year. That bill to make it easier in higher education went to the Council of State on Friday. In terms of accessibility and financial position at home, it doesn't matter if you're 17 or 18. So I see no reason at the moment to go back to a choice made earlier in the legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u136	I think you've had most of the questions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u137	Yes. I have one more question from Mr Bishop about the definition of the competent authority in the legislative proposal. He asks whether the competent authority could be in another position. A first inventory showed that this would lead to huge changes in both the Public Education Act and the WEB. The legislative proposal has been looked at, but it is such a heavy workload that it has also been read in written preparation that it is not a priority at the moment. Then I think I have dealt with all the issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u138	I've been stuck with it. I think so, but Mrs. Tielen is still standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u139	Of course, it could be entirely up to me. I had asked if the Minister would like to evaluate this bill and what period it considered feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u140	I have indicated to you that the evaluation is foreseen in 2022. Then the inspection will look at the entire system again. In reply to Mr Van der Molen's questions, I also indicated that we could look again at a number of future prospects that he sees ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u141	Let's talk about the authority. I can imagine that this is a very complicated operation and that it will not be possible this year, but there is a certain urgency, also in relation to the Minister's mandate. This deserves careful legal treatment. At what time can we expect proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u142	I can't put a date on that for you right now. There's a lot of work ahead of us. Just think of the mandate given to me by the government agreement, for example, to look at the entire funding system in higher education. If I try the urgency in the Chamber that way, I'd rather have that kind of operation than this bill, so that's why I'm giving it priority. At the moment, therefore, I cannot tell you when we will be able to come up with that bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u143	Okay. Are you at the end of your first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u144	There is one further amendment tabled by Mr Bishop, namely No. 13, on the deletion of the provision on general quality assurance. I would advise against that amendment. Your amendment assumes that the requirement for quality care is a double of the entire accreditation, but quality care is not something you need to do periodically, but is a concern you need to have every day. That is why I attach great importance to the fact that this obligation remains in the law. The continuous duty of care for quality is also really outside the scope of accreditation. That is why I reject the amendment. Mr President, I have dealt with all the issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u145	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'll take a look around to see if there's a need for a second term. Mrs Tielen needs that, so I give her the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers, which I could generally find. Thank you for that. There are two things I'd like to see sharper. One of these is, of course, differentiation. I had an interrupting debate with the Minister about this for a while. She was wondering why. The fact that institutions would like to be given good or excellent quality assessment is, in my view, a reason for this. Nor do I know whether the Minister and I fully understood each other at the point where we have to look for it. So I have a motion to at least see if we can somehow find an alternative to the differentiated assessment. I have to read the motion, I think, all the way out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u147	That's right. This is different from that in Utrecht.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u148	I'm gonna do that real quick. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a differentiated assessment makes the quality of the institution comprehensible to students;]] [[considers that external quality assurance not only serves to determine whether education quality is in order, but should also encourage development and improvement beyond the basic level;]] [[Considering that, in addition to a "good" assessment, an "excellent" assessment can act as an incentive for schools and higher education institutions to continuously improve;]] [[calls on the Government to provide an alternative to differentiated assessments in another form that also reflects excellence by summer 2018, in the event that the current differentiated assessments from the law are amended,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34735-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u149	I also have a question about the evaluation. I have heard the Minister correctly: in 2022 she would like to evaluate the entire accreditation system. I can imagine that very well. Perhaps this minister can do the same. Only, in what is now before us, are a number of things that we would like to see before. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the imported quick wins to reduce the experienced load pressure have not yet been evaluated;]] [[noting that the experiment on an institution accreditation with lighter training accreditation has yet to begin and the results are therefore not yet known;]] [[noting that the planned experiment with student panels has not come to fruition and that alternatives to student participation are still being sought, which may require a legislative amendment;]] [[calls on the Government to review this bill within three years of its entry into force, which explicitly addresses the above points,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34735-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u150	All of a sudden, I'm thinking about elementary school, and you got this piece of paper with 100 words, and then you had to look in a minute to see if you could get all 100. I think I've put that into practice now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u151	You did a great job, Mrs. Tielen. Then the next speaker, Mr. Özdil. Do you need a second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank my fellow chamber members, the Minister and, of course, you for a constructive debate. For the sake of clarity, I would like to emphasise once again that the amendment tabled by GroenLinks is not about making evaluation agencies legally compulsory. On the contrary, our amendment is precisely about regulating the functioning of the market in those evaluation offices and not about removing market forces, precisely in order to achieve those common goals of independence. I have a motion on tuition fees for the second study in care or education. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that if nothing happens, the shortage of teachers in 10 years will increase to 16,000 people in primary education and 1,500 in secondary education;]] [[noting that people with training in the field of health care or education are required to pay institutional tuition fees if they have previously obtained a degree in education or health care;]] [[Whereas the often high cost of institution tuition fees is a major barrier to teacher training;]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible for students taking a second study in the field of education or health care to always pay the statutory tuition fees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özdil and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34735-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u153	Mr President, with your permission, I will also take the motion immediately, with gratitude to the Minister for her commitment to give the Chamber an insight into how the choice was made not to do so because of a budgetary consideration. I have just forgotten exactly what the Minister's terms were: a report or a monitor. Pending the monitor, I'll hold my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u154	At the request of Mr Özdil, I propose his motion (34735, No. 17). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u155	Then I'll look at the next speaker. Mr. Futselaar waives his second term. So is Mr. Van der Molen. And so is Mr. Van Meenen. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, on the amendment to item No. 13, which the Minister dissuaded. The purpose of this amendment is precisely to prevent the emergence of phantom regimes. On the contrary, it provides that there is permanent quality care and then you do not have to take care of all kinds of other things about it. I would ask the Minister to look at this again and to respond with some goodwill. I had two motions; one I'm not filing. That motion concerns a definition and a more detailed definition of competent authority. I think that is a very important point. Administratively, too, that's really important. It can lead to a fierce confrontation somewhere, so you don't have the right legal frameworks to deal with it carefully. But I understand it's not a priority right now. But there is also a motion that I am tabling for reasons of principle. So I think that is because a certain category of young people is being treated unfairly. That concerns the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas financial thresholds should not hinder access to higher education and the law requires parents to make a significant financial contribution to the study of their children;]] [[Considering that parents of children entering higher education as minors lose up to thousands of euros of financial support, while this is not the case in secondary vocational education and that even the supplementary low-income grant does not provide sufficient comfort;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that parents of minors taking part in higher education up to the age of 18 are also entitled to children's schemes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34735-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I would like to thank the Minister for the careful answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u158	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. We have thus reached the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. I'll see if the minister can answer. That's the case. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u159	Mr. Chairman. I will not repeat in the second period the arguments on the amendments that have been exchanged. I think that has been changed and sufficiently clear. Mrs Tielen's motion for a resolution 15 is about the differentiated judgments. However, I am prepared to talk to students and institutions to see how we can ensure that those who want to know more also have access to that information. This is something that the NVAO has taken into account in the meantime. How can we ensure that these accreditation reports of the NVAO are more accessible and readable? In addition to the final accreditation assessment, there is also a certain colour and you can look into the question of what that judgment looks like. Panels, for example, identify the strengths and weaknesses of the training. We do not need a separate predicate for this, but these improved reports can lead to an in-depth assessment for those who want it and who need it. So if you ask me if I am willing to look for alternative methods, I say: this is also what the NVAO has provided. The NVAO has said: here we can offer better insight. If I can carry out the motion like this, I can get out of my way with that. But I wouldn't want to go beyond that right now. With that interpretation, I leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. If you want more than that, I will discourage the motion, because the arguments we have exchanged in order not to do so are stronger at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u160	I think that the fact that Mrs Tielen stays seated means that she can live with that interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u161	For now, I can live with that. Should I think otherwise about this overnight, I can always submit a text change or something. That's possible until the last minute, isn't it? It's not convenient, I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u162	That may indeed be possible, but then it may be that the Minister's opinion will change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u163	Exactly, I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u164	But it's also a motion. So you can still decide to apprehend her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u165	I would like to thank Mrs Tielen for thinking about this. Then the motion to part No. 16 by Mrs Tielen asking for the legislative proposal to be reviewed within three years. We can ride endlessly over the exact time frame. I have promised you, and so it is foreseen, that the entire accreditation system will be evaluated in four years' time. I'd almost like to ask, why do you attach yourself to that one year extra? It's a lot of surgeries. In 2013, as many as five bodies looked at the system. The NVAO has also recently been reviewed internationally. If we really want to see if the pilots are meaningful, then it really needs a little time. I do not want to make a big deal of it, but I really give the Chamber a chance to give it some time and not to pile up evaluation at a rapid rate, after which we come up with conclusions which you say: could they not have been more fundamental? Let's keep those four years so we can get a good look at it. I leave the judgment to your Chamber, but I would like you to consider it very carefully. I think taking a little more time is just a little more meaningful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u166	Actually, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u167	I'd rather not, but if I have to, I'll be like laundry in your hands. Then the motion to part No. 17...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u168	He's been apprehended, isn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u169	That's a good thing, because there's so much scratching on it that I can barely read her anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u170	Yeah, it's a work of art.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u171	Indeed, it is almost a contribution to the Committee on Culture. Finally, there is Mr Bishop's motion on item No. 18. I said what I think of that in the first term. You won't be surprised that I'm deceiving this motion. This debate was held in connection with the introduction of the study advance. The motion isn't covered either, so I don't have room to take her over now either. Mr President, that was it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u172	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I see that Mr Van der Molen still has an urgent interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u173	I would just like to ask the Minister to reach a verdict. It is about the amendment to item No. 13, tabled by Mr Bishop. The Minister indicated that there would be no overlap between some in the accreditation around...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u174	I do not think that amendment has been recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u175	Yeah, but I'm gonna want to be able to make my own decision later. There would be no overlap between what is considered in accreditation and what the inspection does. I ask the Minister if she can help the Chamber by giving the Chamber more detailed information on the differences in a letter. I personally find it difficult to weigh this down. I would have been helped to consider whether to vote in favour or against.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u176	Yes. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u177	That will probably have to be a letter that you must have before Tuesday's votes. I can now try to explain it to you again. That saves a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u178	I'd appreciate a letter anyway. Within a week, I think that should be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u179	I do not know whether the votes will necessarily have to be taken next week. Maybe that could offer some relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u180	I don't think it has to be a comprehensive letter. We will write a pointy letter explaining why I attach great importance to maintaining the provision on general quality assurance. Then you can include that in your assessment of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u181	In my view, the article in question, which Mr Bishop wants to delete with his amendment, does not mention the inspection and its role at all, but is simply about general quality requirements. You need to consult your students, you need to consult independent people from outside and publish that. I think that's really different from another supervisor. That's how I saw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u182	The Minister will comment on this in her letter. I think that's the smartest thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u183	Yes, but Mr Futselaar is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u184	Okay! Those are fine last words, I hear Mr Futselaar say. That concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-34.u185	The vote on the legislative proposal, the motions and the amendments will take place next Tuesday. I thank the people who have followed this debate. I thank the Minister and her support, as well as the participants in the debate. I wish you all at home.
