ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome you all. The next item is VAO Nature, with Mrs Arissen as the first speaker. She speaks on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Even now, I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Queen Wilhelmina donated the Kroondomain Het Loo to the Dutch people in 1959;]] [[noting that the Dutch State pays hundreds of thousands of euros annually for maintenance of the Crown Domain;]] [[considers that the Dutch population should therefore be given annual access to this nature reserve;]] [[calls on the government to open up the real Crown Domain Het Loo year round to the public,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-123]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u3	It is by now a tradition that the Party for Animals submits this motion once a year. I also ask Mrs Arissen, through the chairman, traditionally: do you honestly believe that animals should be disturbed throughout the year, in your view?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u4	This will undoubtedly give us a more traditional answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u5	Says the spokesperson for the hunting party of this Chamber, Chairman. I do not think the animals are disturbed by the visitors, but by the hunters, who want to hunt there, in this case the royal house. We traditionally submit this motion once a year, but now even twice a year. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u6	Thank you for your input. I call Mr Graus. He speaks for the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u8	Your Eminence, my dear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u9	Your Eminence. It's unique, isn't it, that we have a Bishop as chairman today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u10	Enjoy, boy... sorry, Mr. Graus!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr. Bishop may say to me "boy." That's an honor; thank you very much. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control,]] [[calls on the government, following several motions for resolutions adopted by Graus, to put an end to the animal experiment in the Oostvaardersplassen, and in view of the unacceptable animal suffering,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-124]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. I've been trying for a long time, for 11 years, to put an end to the animal suffering in the Oostvaardersplassen. I've really tried everything, but even motions from me aren't being carried out. That does not apply to this minister, because she has not been there for very long and she has always kept proper agreements and such; I am talking about other directors. The last thing a professor said was, it's an experiment. It started out as an animal experiment. They've dumped animals that don't occur naturally in that Tupperware area, which is man-made. It's not a nature reserve, it's a tupperware area. They dumped those animals there and said, "Boys, fuck you." Well, they can't find enough shelter from cold and they can't migrate climatologically in search of water and feed during persistent frost. That's all rejected. Even judges have interfered. I gotta tell you, I'm gonna throw it on this, because it's an experiment. And an experiment with vertebrate animals is covered by the Animal Health Act, and the government has something to say about that. So the minister can't refer me to the county either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u13	That leads to a question from Mr Geurts. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u14	Mr President, through you I ask Mr Graus how I should read this motion. Should the management, which has been transferred to the province of Flevoland, be returned to the Minister in the eyes of the PVV Group? Because that's how I read this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u15	No. Unfortunately, we now see how this works out afterwards, because we also supported it then, but of course we could never foresee what is happening now. Now it's in the county, but I'm a member of the States General. I have to deal with the minister. This minister is the shepherd of all sheep. She is the Minister of Animal Welfare. We finally have another Minister of Animal Welfare. Since she is also concerned with the Animal Animal Control Act, I am only asking the Minister for Management is unfortunately in the province of Flevoland, but I can leave my question on animal testing with this Minister to put an end to the animal test, the animal experiment in the Oostvaardersplassen. Because that's it! It has been recognized by the founder of the Oostvaardersplassen that it was just an experiment. It's a total failure experiment, with tens of thousands of dead animals dying of starvation. The hunger death, you do not even give it your greatest enemy; you don't even give it to a criminal, let alone defenseless animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u16	There is a follow-up question from Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u17	I also have a lot of emotions about what is happening in the Oostvaardersplassen, but I also have to deal with the legal situation here. That's why I'm trying to talk about it that way, without emotion. Should I understand the motion in such a way that it is asked: are the animals in the Oostvaardersplassen legally an animal test, yes or no? Does that question now lie with the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u18	Yeah, that's right. The Minister will respond immediately, but a professor of animal rights has already indicated that it is an experiment. And experiments with vertebrate animals are by definition covered by the Animal Animal Control Act. So that's why. That's my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u20	A blessed day, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u21	Nice to meet you, too. Thank you very much. Mr Futselaar has the floor. He speaks for the SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three motions from our side; I was excited. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the government agreement has no greater ambition for national parks than to pursue existing policies;]] [[considers that the national parks have a high ecological and economic value and potential, which, however, is not fully developed in all national parks;]] [[calls on the Minister to come forward with an ambitious agenda for strengthening natural values in national parks and increasing visitor numbers where relevant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the PBL states that the last tens of thousands of hectares of nature of the Nature Network Netherlands (NNN) are difficult to acquire due to the lack of cooperation of land owners;]] [[considers that the completion of the Netherlands Nature Network is of great importance;]] [[calls on the Minister, in consultation with the IPO, to come up with an action plan to finalise the Nature Network Netherlands, focusing on the use of all means of land acquisition and multiple land use,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in its letter to the Cabinet on spending on nature and water quality, it proposes to allocate 60 million for the implementation of the Sixth Nitrates Action Programme and 40 million for "opportunities";]] [[considers that the cost of adapting agriculture to the requirements of the Sixth Action Programme is primarily a matter for agriculture itself;]] [[Considers that 40 million for opportunities in peat meadows, livestock-tight areas and around nature 2000 is very modest;]] [[calls on the Minister to transfer 20 million from the envelope of the Sixth Action Programme to the "opportunities" and to incorporate it into the next budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-125]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-126]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-127]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u23	Mr. Chairman. The Oostvaardersplassen have caused a lot of social turmoil and commotion. That is still quite audible with Mr Graus. The Labour Party, however, chooses a different direction in this matter. We believe that increasing the habitat is essential to improve both the quality of nature and the quality of life of animals. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas extending the habitat for animals in the Oostvaardersplassen contributes both to the quality of nature and to the improvement of the quality of life of animals;]] [[calls on the Government to promote and facilitate a more open, natural connection between nature reserves Oostvaardersplassen and the Horsterwold,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-128]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u24	Mr. Chairman. I would like to use my remaining speaking time to support the forest rangers of State Forests. They're attacked, they're threatened, they're molested and they're intimidated. The PvdA Group finds that really unacceptable. They are the people who are with heart and soul the guardians of nature in the Oostvaardersplassen. They do good and valuable work. My question to the Minister is: how does she intend to stand before, next to and behind the people? After all, they are people who work under national responsibility. If it were about ambulance nurses or police officers, the world would be too small. Everyone would be on their backs. We believe that the government, that the minister should really take a position on this and stand behind these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u25	Thank you. This gives rise to a question from Mrs Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u26	Thank you, Mr President. The Animal Party is very pleased with the submission of the Labour Party's motion. The expansion of the habitat is something the Party for Animals has been fighting for for years. I would suggest that I sign the motion on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u27	I'm sure you'll agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u28	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u29	We can do that on the spot. The motion in part No. 128 received an additional signature by adding Mr Arissen. Thank you. That was Mr Moorlag's input. I call Mr Weverling. He speaks on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the AO nature we talked about the increasing crime in nature reserves. Green boas experience an increasing sense of insecurity in the green space. It is worrying that the number of green boas has decreased, as they perform an important social task. The VVD believes that this problem requires a wider solution than only access to the radiophones, for example. During nature's AO, the Minister undertook to table with her colleague of Justice and Security and the nature management organisations a joint plan to improve monitoring and enforcement in nature areas. Since the Minister has promised to come up with a plan, a motion is unnecessary in our view. However, through you, I have a question for the Minister. When does she intend to present this plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u31	Thank you. That gives rise to a question from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u32	Thank you, Mr President, for allowing me to do so. The PVV once asked for 500 animal policemen. This was destroyed by the entire Chamber of the Party for Animals. That's 180 part-timers. But we just wanted that to be the return of the field police, in forests, dunes, fields. In Brabant, they even deploy arrest teams, Mr President, against poachers and that kind of mischief. So my question is: why don't you just support us for some more animal policemen coming, or the existing animal policemen becoming full-timers? Then they could be the return of the field police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u33	In this case, I am not talking about the animal police, but about the number of green boas that have been drastically reduced, in order to bring them back and see how they can be the eyes and ears of the police. This is, of course, very important in this case, because things can often happen in nature areas that we do not wish to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u34	One follow-up question, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u35	A brief comment, Mr President. We've had round tables here. Green boas don't stand up to that asshole and to heavy-armed poachers, who often walk around with semi-automatic weapons. Even in Brabant, arrest teams are deployed in the woods. So don't talk to me about green boas. They must be police officers, general investigators, armed to the teeth. Really, this is the last question. Just support us with the return of those field police! So animal police, field police...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u36	In any case, it is also clear to us that there must be a plan between JNW, LNV and nature management organisations to see how we can deal with this, so we are waiting to see what the two ministers will come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u37	Who knows what kind of beauty is gonna grow out of that? Mr. Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u38	The words of Mr Weverling have been taken from my heart. I think we have also expressed our opinion on this together in the AO. A fair question to the Minister, but of course it is also up to the Chamber to decide with each other what we are spending our money on. There has, of course, been a significant reduction in green boas in the context of austerity operations. Is Mr Weverling prepared, as far as I am concerned, to look together at the financial possibilities and to discuss them in the spring note?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u39	There's always money for every good plan. Therefore, making a good plan is a first priority. After that, of course, we have to look further. I do not know what the Minister is going to say, whether she already has a plan for the Spring Paper, but at least let us keep talking about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u40	This seems to be a promise within itself. Mr. Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u41	Mr. Chairman. I would like to put the question to the Minister almost through Mr Weverling if she could answer well before the Spring paper. Then perhaps we have information that is very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u42	Thank you. Mr Weverling may still respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u43	I have made no suggestion that money should go now. Let us wait for a plan and see if there is a need for money to be made available. We're gonna judge it on his merits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u44	Thank you. That concludes the debate on the part of the Chamber. The minister needs five minutes. That means I'm suspending until 3:44 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u45	We will continue, thanks to the Minister, who was here a minute earlier than planned. I'd like to give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The first motion is the motion in part No. 123 by Mrs Arissen. Mr Geurts mentioned it as a tradition. I can even share this tradition now, because this motion was always tabled at the time of the debate on the Royal House budget and now even with us. Mrs Arissen will not be surprised that the judgment is as always the same. We're going to discourage this motion. Mr Graus' motion for a resolution (Doc. 124 is about the Oostvaardersplassen. The purpose of this is to look at it from the animal testing perspective. As Mr Graus himself pointed out, the management of the large grazers was transferred to the province, partly because the PVV wanted to. That's what I'm saying. That is the situation now. He is now saying: it is unlawful what is happening there. The judge has already ruled on cases brought before different parties at different times. The judge has always held that what takes place there can be done within the framework of the laws and regulations. It's not an animal test or an animal experiment. I would also like to stress that the Van Geel Committee will be presenting its opinion to the province at the end of April. We didn't ask, but the county asked. I think it would be wise to look at what exactly is in that opinion, I say to the province, because it has asked for it and it is about that. For this reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u47	The motion in part No. 124 is not recommended. That gives rise to a question from Mr Graus. Let it not be a reopening of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u48	No, but I do have two points. I must be able to respond to what the Minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u49	Sure. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u50	As long as the Oostvaardersplassen area has fallen under the government, I have always asked for shelter, support and birth control through hormone darts. I've always tried. When it was transferred, it did indeed happen with the support of the PVV, also in the hope that those people might do something. That's what happened. At least now they're joining us. That's a big deal. But what matters now is that the government is about the animal testing law, not the county. That's why I'm trying to find something new. I remain inventive to put an end to the animal suffering. Okay, it's an animal experiment. A professor just said it, too. Animal experiments are covered by the Law of Animal Experiments. That's what the government's about. Put an end to that animal experiment. End of exercise. That is also the government's aim. She wants to replace animal testing and accelerate animal testing. So this is all in line with what the government wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u51	I've already indicated that management is no longer here. On all other points, there have already been several court cases. This involved the question of whether the management as it is designed is carried out in accordance with the laws and regulations. The judge confirmed that. Those are the statements. For this reason, I also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u52	The motion in part No. 124 continues to dissuade. Mr Graus has a brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u53	I wonder what all animal-friendly MPs are going to vote here. What I just wrote down is actually right. It was supported by a professor. I wonder who might be against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u54	That will be evident in the vote. Then the motion to part No. 125.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u55	Mr Futselaar's motion for a resolution 125 is about the national parks. Mr Futselaar wants an ambitious agenda for the summer. I have already indicated that we have received a report from the committee led by Prof. From Vollenhoven. He just got a report on this. We will respond to that. We will then send that reaction to the Chamber. The answer to the question of whether this is an ambitious agenda will have to be met by Mr Futselaar, but we are going to respond to the report that is to be presented. The second point in the motion concerns the strengthening of natural values in national parks. The strengthening of natural values is carried out through the Natura 2000 policy. There's that element in there. So, in fact, the motion on that point is not entirely correct. But we come with a response to Van Vollenhoven's report. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u56	The motion in part No. 125 is not recommended. That leads to a question from Mr Futselaar. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u57	I interpret the Minister's words a little as: let us now just respond to the report. The problem is this. My term 'not ambitious' is, of course, the result of the coalition agreement, which literally states that we are going to do the same as we did. I suspect that this minister is bound by the government agreement, unless the Chamber makes another ruling, so it makes sense to allow the Chamber to make another ruling through this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u58	Clear, thank you for the explanation. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u59	That is indeed a political view, and I leave it to the Court to decide how it thinks it should vote. But I would advise against this motion. In his motion in part No. 126 asks Mr Frutselaar to come up with an action plan for the Netherlands Nature Network in consultation with the IPO. As I pointed out during the debate, the provinces deal with the agreements in the nature pact and Nature Network Netherlands. We have regular talks with the provinces about how things are going. They're on schedule. I would also like to emphasise that. I have every confidence that the provinces will handle this well, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u60	The motion in part No. 126: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u61	Mr Futselaar did not agree with the distribution of resources from the natural and water envelope. That's just how I put it in my own words. There has really been some thought about the distribution of these resources. 60 million is the public contribution to the Sixth Action Programme, but it is also, of course, also about water quality. Mr Futselaar suggests in his motion on item No. 127 that this is just money for farmers or something like that, but this is about improving the quality of our water, including our drinking water. I think this is something that we all care about and want to work on. I am also looking for cooperation with the provinces on this issue, so I think this amount is necessary to ensure that we can improve water quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u62	I therefore conclude that the motion in part No. 127 is not recommended. Mr. Futselaar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u63	For the record, we will continue to differ on this issue, so there is not much point in discussing it very much. I didn't suggest that this money is for farmers. All I have said is that it makes sense to place the costs of improving the water in agriculture if that is where the problem with water comes from. That's a slightly different interpretation, I just wanted to clarify.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u64	That doesn't change the verdict on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u65	The judgment on the motion in part No. 127 continues: dissuade. Then the motion to part No. 128.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u66	Mr Moorlag asked the government to promote a more open, natural connection between nature reserves Oostvaardersplassen and the Horsterwold. As I have just indicated, nature policy and the well-being of the great grazers are decentralised to the province. The options for extending possible connections would also lie there. Again: Deputy States of Flevoland have asked the Van Geel Committee for an opinion. That investigation has yet to be completed. The report will be delivered at the end of April, I understand. Then that discussion will take place, but I'm not going to recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u67	In the Minister's answer, it sounds like I tried to seduce her not to operate in a pure manner. That is by no means my intention. The operative part of the motion refers to promotion and facilitation and does not call for it to be settled. I cannot imagine that the province, which indeed has management responsibility, can oppose it. I also appeal to the Minister for her system responsibility. As far as the division of powers is concerned, the PvdA Group also wants to operate purely. In that light, could the Minister reach a different opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u68	Even from this system responsibility, I say that nature policy is also decentralised. Here, too, the choices are made by the provinces. Both the responsibility for the Oostvaardersplassen and the choices made in nature policy lie with the province. So it is precisely from two sides, I would say, that I am trying to be steady in this and to keep the responsibility where it is, namely in the province. At the same time, I also see that the province has asked the Van Geel Committee for advice. That advice has yet to be delivered. So I do not think this motion is correct in terms of the system, but I do not think it is timely either, because that report from the Van Geel Committee is yet to be produced. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u69	Enough? Short follow-up reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u70	Very briefly. I do not think that the division of labour between the province and the Empire can and must be such that the Empire can and must no longer do anything, and that it only refers to the province and claims that there is a responsibility for nature policy. If things go wrong with nature policy, Europe will also appeal to the Empire and not the province.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u71	Clear. Then there's the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u72	There was also a question or a comment by Mr Moorlag on the staff of the State Forestry Agency. Let me say here that I fully agree with what Mr Moorlag has said about the way in which staff members of the State Forest Service are treated. He's asking me what I'm gonna do about it. I have just spoken out and said that I really abhor the reaction of these people. They carry out their tasks, tasks the frameworks of which are defined by politicians. I also have regular contact with State Forest Management, but let me just say one more time, for those who still have doubts about it: I really hate it when employees of State Forest Management are threatened and are thrown at their heads, including on social media. I really think that goes way too far for something they do because they're told to do it. I am far removed from that and I would like to call on everyone to act normal in this area as well. A little decency, there's nothing wrong with that, certainly not with the people of State Forestry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u73	Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u74	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Look, I agree with what the Minister said, but I would like to mention that as a member of the States-General I went to the Oostvaardersplassen, just neatly, calmly and calmly. I've been out for hours. I've been lied to. They said there were no people, but there were six people leaning against the car eating their belly full while animals were starving. With all due respect, I have been lied to, I have been prevented, I have been refused to give me a hand. It was captured on camera and transmitted to PowNed. So with all due respect, the knife has to cut both ways. I agree: you don't threaten anyone, but State forestry can also deal with members of the States General more decently. We need to check them out. They get money, public money, so we need to be able to control them, and I'm not allowed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u75	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u76	During the discussions, during the debate, we also discussed this for a while. At that time I also indicated that I know that there has already been contact between State Forestry and Mr Graus to talk about this. It seems to me to be a good thing that this has happened, but that does not relieve anyone of the duty to deal properly with his fellow man. I would like to stress this once again. Then I have a question from Mr Weverling about the green boas. He asks when the Chamber will hear more about the conversation I have with my colleague from J and V, because, as I said in the debate, the responsibility for the green boas lies with the Minister of J and V. I would very much like to convey to him the urgency raised by Mr Weverling, among others, in the debate. In the middle of April, I will talk to my colleague from J and V about this, but he is the one who should ultimately inform the Chamber about what is going to happen there and what steps can be taken there. I think it is a little premature to say things when the responsibility lies with a colleague. I will convey the urgency of bringing this to the Chamber in good time, but I can say that it is certainly too early for the Spring paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u77	Is there going to be a plan, or are you just going to give priority to your colleague?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u78	I'm not exactly the one who's gonna tell my colleague what to do. I will convey the urgency and also the desire of the House to come up with a plan for the green boas. Whether this is actually going to happen is the responsibility of my colleague from JenV. So I would say: if you consider that important, try to ask my colleague from JenV directly. At the same time, we will at least put the urgency to him and discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u79	Enough? Mr Futselaar (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u80	I would like to give the following to Mr Weverling. The minister doesn't want to tell her colleague what to do. The Chamber can, of course, do so, for example by motion, so I will give you that as a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u81	But that is a reflection of Mr Weverling. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u82	Because of the statements made by the Minister of LNV in the AO, I did not consider tabling a motion, because I got the impression that there was enthusiasm for a joint discussion and a joint plan with the nature management organizations. Hence no motion today. Of course, I'm not going to file it now. I don't think that's even possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u83	No, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u84	So let's wait and see. I very much expect Mrs Schouten to bring this to her colleague's attention with great priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u85	The Minister will undoubtedly do that. My generous mood is bothering me, because it is not really the intention to react to each other through the interrupting microphones. Perhaps the Minister would like to make one final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u86	The conversation will take place in mid-April. I'll pass on the urgency. If Mr Weverling wants to pass it on to the Minister of J and V himself, then he will not stand in the way of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u87	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the discussions on this subject. The votes on the motions will take place Deo volente Tuesday next week.
