ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Mr Bergkamp, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Özütok amending the General Law on equal treatment in order to clarify the prohibition of unauthorized discrimination on grounds of sex. That's the Law Clarifying Legal Status Transgender Persons and Intersex Persons. First of all, I would like to welcome the initiators. They are always supported by very important policy makers. These are Youri Rijkhoff, policy officer of the D66 group, Anjel Punte, policy officer of the Labour Party, and Jaap van der Heijden, policy officer of the GroenLinks group. I also welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, of course. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. That's always a special role. Today we are discussing the first term of office. This means that the initiators only listen and do not yet respond. The continuation of this legal treatment is planned at a later date in consultation with the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u2	I am happy to be the first to give the floor today to Mr Sjoerdsma of the D66 Group for his contribution to the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u3	Mr. Chairman. You've welcomed everyone in section K very much. Of course, that is more than justified. Writing an initiative law is a long process. It's a process that requires a lot. I also think it's something that's a great honor to do. So I would almost like to congratulate the members of the Chamber present in box K in advance, rather than congratulating them on their efforts, as well as, of course, their support in box K and, in my opinion, in the honour of the President in the back of the Chamber. The law we are discussing today is an important initiative law. The last Home Secretary said he thought the bill was a good idea. So I hope this Minister of the Interior agrees with you as an advisor. The previous one thought that was a good idea with a lot of support, but these MPs have done it themselves with just a little less support. Today, in a large sense, it is actually about the Netherlands as a frontrunner in the field of equal rights, of freedoms for everyone, of being visible between men and women, between gays and straights. We were therefore not for nothing the first country to allow the marriage of equal sex in 2001, in fact marriage for everyone. That was groundbreaking. It was historic. And it was a leading role, as my group very much likes and would still like to see. But there will be a "but" and that is that the Netherlands is falling on international rankings. I'll be the first to say that rising on lists is not an end in itself. We shouldn't overdo rank fetishism. But the nasty thing is that the drop in these lists indicates that we are beginning to lag behind on neighbouring countries in terms of our abilities and our protection, for example in countries like Malta. I find that hard to digest myself. I think we should take back that lead position. I think we should fight those freedoms and abilities harder. We have done so with many parties in the Rainbow Voting Box agreement and earlier in the Pink Voting Box agreement. Those are intentions. And now we have to live up to those intentions. We're gonna have to do it. Today, I think, is a first important step towards implementing those agreements. Then the law. Not everyone can fully identify with the boxes "man" or "woman." Some people's bodies don't match how they feel in their heads. They don't want to go through life as a strict man or woman or they're not just physically male or female. This can lead to several problems, for example with a personal OV-chipkaart with photo, where the photo does not match the user's gender identity. It may also be that transgenders do not always dare to come out at work, afraid of exclusion or discrimination. Also, people with intersex conditions have to do with misunderstandings, because many people simply don't know what that is. Some people therefore feel compelled to conform to existing frameworks of man or woman if they want to participate in society, just to be unobtrusive. That concerns me, because D66 represents an inclusive society in which everyone can and may be themselves. Mr. Chairman. Although there may be no legal need for this law, because discrimination based on gender characteristics, gender identity or gender expression is already prohibited, there is an obvious need for society. D66 would like people to know that the law protects them, that people are claiming this law more quickly and that people who are dealing with this law are directly addressed to the standard addressees in order to use a terrible word. In other words, what is needed is a clarification of the law. It's ahead of us today. Mr. Chairman. For me, equal treatment and non-discrimination are fundamental values of our democratic rule of law. We must do everything we can to contribute to this. It is a fact that too many people are now forced to remain in the closet for fear of stigmatisation and social exclusion. For example, in the Netherlands we have an estimated 50,000 transgender persons and 85,000 people with intersex conditions. Those are more people than live in the city of Zoetermeer. And those are just the people we know about, who have indeed dared to come out of the closet. Those people simply too often have to deal with unwanted reactions that arise from ignorance, from discomfort, from incomprehension. It is important that these people do not have to deal unnecessarily with bullying behaviour, discrimination and exclusion. So this law also has a clear social character, as I have just said. It's not an sich. I would also like to emphasise that. The law alone, of course, is not the solution. It is part of a multi-track journey that we will have to go together. However, I would like to point out that, from here on, I would like to underline the many national and international calls made for this amendment, for example by the Human Rights College or the European Commissioner for Human Rights. In addition, I believe that the applicants have had extensive contact with interest groups, both national and international. I see some of them sitting in the stands today. Welcome to you, too. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the authors a few more questions. One. In the written round, D66 asked for examples of discrimination on indirect grounds. The difference between direct unlawful discrimination and indirect discrimination, which is sometimes permitted under strict conditions, is clear to me, but I would like to hear from the authors a good example of this indirect discrimination. Do transgenders have anything to do with that? If so, in what situations? Two. In replying to the questions, the applicants argue that the distinction between husband and wife is blurred. I wonder whether the authors agree with me that the distinction does not fade away for everyone, but that this law shows that there is a continuum of identities and expressions between man and woman. Three. The proposers only adapt the General Law on Equal Treatment and, for example, not the Equal Treatment Act for Men and Women. The written reply stated that this was chosen because full harmonisation of all legislation was too far-reaching for the scope of this proposal. I can quite imagine something about that, by the way. I would like to hear from the cabinet how it sees the need to amend other legislation. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I wonder what steps the cabinet will take if this law is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u4	Thank you. You are right to welcome the people in the public gallery. I could have done that myself, but you did it for us. Thank you for coming, I say to these people. There are undoubtedly also people who are following this debate via television, computer or otherwise. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the authors of this law. They've put a lot of work into it, and it deserves a compliment. The applicants wish to clarify the legal position of transgender and intersex persons. It is good that there is attention for this group, a group that often does not have it easy. There is discrimination and exclusion, for example in the workplace. You can see that in the numbers. Transgender and intersex persons are relatively often disabled. The unemployment rate for this group is 20% higher than the average. What solutions do the initiators see to improve the labour market position of transgenders and intersex individuals? Many transgender and intersex individuals cannot be themselves. In fact, they get negative reactions when they try to be themselves. For fear of stigmatisation and social exclusion, they remain in the closet. Very undesirable. I would also like to ask what the authors are doing about this. Another point is the huge waiting times for transgender care. For adults as well as for children, these can go up to one and a half years. Transgender care is in fact locked. Especially for children, this is a major problem, because the development of the child often stands still, with the risk of permanent delays. Traumas can also occur, as well as suicide. Do the proposers and the Minister share the view that this issue needs to be addressed? The SP calls for a drastic reduction in waiting times, up to a maximum of 13 weeks. Again, all the appreciation for the authors of this law, but is it true that today's law does not deal with these issues, i.e. the labour market position and waiting times? The applicants themselves state that the law is not legally necessary, because discrimination is already prohibited in the General Law on equal treatment. I would like to ask the authors whether this is above all a symbolic proposal. The amendment is in the coalition agreement and is part of the Rainbow Voting Box agreement, but that will not be the only reason why the law is in place. Can the proposers once again explain why this law is necessary? The SP is also looking forward to the government's opinion on the proposed amendment. Does the government have any additional proposals to combat discrimination against transgender and intersex individuals and reduce waiting times? The Human Rights College and the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau support the change. We would even rise on the Rainbow Index, where the Netherlands has recently fallen out of the top ten. I would ask the applicants to confirm that conclusion. With a wink, because of course we don't know that, but let's hope so. The General Law on Equal Treatment is amended, but why do not the proposers also choose to use the term "sexual orientation" in the General Law on Equal Treatment instead of the term "hetero- or homosexual orientation"? I ask the Minister what is the reason for talking about heterosexual or homosexual orientation. What are the objections to bringing this into line with the law? Internationally, the term "sexual orientation" is also common. I have tabled an amendment to this effect. Finally, the ruling of the Limburg court last Monday, 28 May. It should be possible to place an X on official documents, instead of an M or a V, just for the people for whom today's law amendment is intended. How is the government going to implement this judgment? How is the government going to limit unnecessary sex registration where possible, as is written in the coalition agreement on page 10? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u6	Thank you. As the third speaker, I give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u7	Thank you, Madam President. I'm so proud when I look at trade-K. Proud that there are three parliamentarians there who have worked hard on a good, very relevant and new bill. For them, other parliamentarians have also drawn hard, including my colleague Liesbeth van Tongeren. Vera Bergkamp has been a constant factor. I want to thank her for that. The present proposal is important to strengthen the legal position, but above all the social position of transgender and intersex individuals. All people are different but we are all equal in our right to be ourselves, to show who we are. Discrimination and exclusion are in the way of a free society in which everyone is shaping their own lives. There are many different forms of discrimination, but today we focus on discrimination against people who do not fit in with the traditional male or female picture. First of all, I would like to say something about the social urgency and then about the legal solutions that have been chosen. Let me start with intersex. I must honestly say that I only a year or seven ago in a conversation with people from the Dutch Network Intersex I believe that people are sitting in the gallery now understand what intersex condition was exactly: a variation on the traditional biological standards of being a man/woman. Let me just say what it's about. The norm for women is that they have breasts, a vagina, ovaries, a uterus, a particular physique and oestrogen. Men have a penis, testosterone, testes and a different physique. Sometimes there is variation, such as that there are girls born who have both ovaries and testicles or boys with a clitoris rather than a dick. And that makes people very nervous. 'Cause what's that baby then? What sex does it have? Incomprehension, discomfort and ignorance often lead to medical intervention in order to meet the standards of man or woman through surgery. But why is that? That alone is the added value of this bill, namely that we say that you need to be no different than you already are, that there is no need to intervene surgically, that of course you can do so if you want to, but that of course you cannot determine that if you are a little baby, because here the standards of autonomy, self-determination and physical integrity apply. Intersex is not a medical problem; it is a fact, a natural fact, and it is important that it gets more familiar. This bill makes it explicitly clear that intersex individuals themselves should be able to develop their gender identity. I have one more question for the Minister. I've heard many times say there's still medical intervention going on. At the same time, there are agreements with hospitals not to do that anymore. I wonder if there is a bit more insight into the practice. Is this gonna happen? It won't be under duress now, but my question is whether it still happens. For me, this still affects the autonomy of a child who has not yet been given access to it. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. This bill is also about intersex individuals who often feel clearly male or female, but it is also about other groups such as transgenders whose original gender does not match who they are, and people who do not want to relate to the hut of husband/wife. The proposers also add the grounds gender expression and gender identity to the General Law on equal treatment as grounds on which you should not discriminate. The social necessity is obvious. More than half of transgender persons are insulted monthly or more often or have experienced a violent incident in the last 12 months. More than 40% of transgender people have had to deal with discrimination at work. So increasing awareness of the standard that should not be discriminated against is very important. That is, in itself, a value of this bill. I also see a small legal value, on which I would like to hear the Minister's reflection. I know that the general law on equal treatment already contains the term "sex" and that the Human Rights College and the judge have interpreted that this includes, for example, transgenders. However, this is a bit of a curious construction because, in the case of discrimination on grounds of sex, discrimination against the group of women versus the group of men or vice versa, the group of men versus the group of women, transgenders are, of course, talking about discrimination within the group of men, of men who are discriminated against against against other men and women who are discriminated against against other women. In order to say that this is a correct interpretation, I can imagine that it is also legally useful to add the addition made by the proposers. The law could be amended in different ways. Firstly, of course, by the grounds of the General Law on Equal Treatment, as set out in Article 1a. and 1b. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers is designed to extend the scope of this Directive. We would then have to avoid discrimination on the basis of religion, belief, political orientation, race, gender, nationality, homosexual orientation, bourgeois status, gender characteristics, gender identity or gender expression. This in itself would have given a slightly greater visibility to the prohibition of discrimination on these three grounds. At the same time, this would have led to practical complications. Imagine your employer forcing you to wear a skirt as a corporate outfit when you don't feel like a woman. Then you could go to the Human Rights College, but on what grounds? Is that on the ground "sex" or on the ground "gender expression"? I therefore believe that the proposers have made a very wise decision by including in the law the three grounds we are discussing today as an explanation of what we mean or may mean by discrimination based on sex. We have done the same with pregnancy discrimination. It has also been said that discrimination based on sex is also understood as discrimination based on pregnancy, childbirth and motherhood. So here is another explanation of what we can also mean by discrimination on the grounds of sex. I find it striking, moreover, that only direct discrimination is prohibited in relation to pregnancy, and I believe that a colleague has already referred to it, while both direct and indirect discrimination is prohibited as regards the distinction based on gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression. I do agree with that last choice, but I wonder whether that is also a question for the Minister how this now relates to the choice made in relation to pregnancy discrimination and whether this has led to new insights. Finally, I would like to ask the authors: I would like to join with the colleague of the SPD in their view on the grounds of discrimination 'heterosexual and homosexual orientation'. It's a rather limited category, which is actually less appealing to lesbians, bisexuals and asexuals. As far as I am concerned, this is relatively easy to solve by simply talking about sexual orientation or sexual orientation, as is customary internationally. I would like to know from the authors why they did not choose to amend the law on this point. Apart from this very small critical note, GroenLinks is extremely happy with the bill. This now also explicitly protects transgender persons, intersex persons and all other people who do not clearly identify themselves with the concept of "man" or "woman" from discrimination. It is a step in the emancipation of these groups. Much more will have to be done, but it is an important step. I would like once again to thank all three applicants for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u8	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to congratulate the initiators, Mrs Bergkamp, Mrs Van den Hul and Mrs Özütok on their legislative proposal. They raise a very important issue. I would also like to say that I do enjoy the fact that there are so many women on this side of the Chamber today. Mr. Chairman. Everyone in our country should be free and safe just to be themselves. That sounds like an open door, but as long as even in my own city of Amsterdam, the city of freedom, two men cannot go hand in hand across the street without being harassed, transpersonal beings do not feel safe and birds of paradise are attacked, I will continue to make this point here. Unfortunately, the IBT community still has to deal with aggression, discrimination and exclusion, not only in the streets, but also in schools, sports associations and in the workplace. Being attacked, verbally or physically, for your identity, for who you are, is one of the most profound things a person can experience and I also think one of the most lonely things. Take the transgender and intersex men and women who have difficulty in exercising. Sports schools are not prepared to find a solution for trans-women and men to the problem of changing rooms and showers, or even worse: associations do not even want to register them. Or think of transgenders who are rejected in applications because employers think they will be sick more often. As far as I am concerned, we cannot say here, in the Chamber, and outside it often enough to someone who feels otherwise, excluded or belittled, that you are not alone. I see this debate again as an opportunity to say this and perhaps even better to guarantee our laws. As far as I'm concerned, there's also good news. Every incident increases the social disapproval of the instigator. Take last week's case. The director of a public school who deletes his students' idea of adding a gay couple to a school musical for religious reasons. Fortunately, the country was really too small and many spoke out against this kind of narrowness and paternalism. Anyway, that's a long way from getting us there. Today it's about people who don't meet the traditional male-female image. It's about intersex and transgender people. The acceptance of this group really remains behind in our society. Especially when it comes to the workplace, the figures are shocking. A fifth of the transgenders say nothing about his or her transition. They hide themselves out of fear of being judged for who they are. As a result, unemployment rates are many times higher than average. I touched the story of a transgender person working at an IT firm. The message was: we don't have a problem with this, but maybe our employees do, so you don't get a contract. You've got to have quite a sense of absorption to bear that. The proposers of the initiative proposal believe that clarification of the General Law on equal treatment could contribute positively to the protection of people affected by discrimination based on gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression. I really hope so. I would like to ask the authors a few questions about this. These questions have been asked earlier and are explained in some detail in the proposal, but I would be delighted if the authors could comment on the following issues. On the basis of what analysis do they conclude that clarification is necessary in order to better guarantee the legal protection and legal status of transpersonal and intersex persons? What results do they expect from this clarification in practice for trans- and inter-sex individuals? I also have a question about the fact that legally-technically it has been chosen to add a new paragraph to Article 1 of the General Law on Equal Treatment rather than to include gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression as separate grounds in the list of already existing grounds for discrimination. This solution differs from the system of the General Law on Equal Treatment. I am therefore curious to see what the motivations of the initiators were to set it up in this way. The VVD, like previous speakers, also has questions, particularly in the direction of the Minister, about the concept of "homosexual and heterosexual orientation," as mentioned in the General Law on Equal Treatment. I would like to hear from the Minister how she views a change of 'homosexual or heterosexual orientation' to'sexual orientation', as colleagues have said. I also have a few other questions for the Minister, Mr President. A clarification in the law is of course very nice, but especially if it helps..... there is of course everyone involved if it contributes to equal treatment, if it does indeed mean that people feel strengthened and dare to stand up for themselves rather than press charges, or if others, for example, experience an obstacle to discrimination. How does the Minister view this bill in that light? Ultimately, of course, it is about enforcement and compliance. Can the Minister comment on what she thinks about this change in practice and whether she still lacks instruments for even better protection of intersex and transpersonality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u10	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Molen of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the CDA Group, we would also like to thank the initiators for their comprehensive answers to all the questions raised by the Chamber and the CDA Group. From this point on, I would also like to congratulate you on being here tonight, including for the staff who have done a great deal of work on this initiative proposal, which requires a great deal of the scarce time for Members of Parliament. At least you've come this far. And now for the first term of office. Mr. Chairman. Last week in the Frisian Nileân, between Bolsward and Sneek, a work of art by Ids Willemsma was revealed, in memory of Foekje Dillema. Foekje was a Dutch athlete, born in 1926 and died in 2007, and due to her fast sprint she was more known athletes like Fanny Blankers-Koen on the heels. Until she refused a mandatory sex test in 1950. Because she refused the test, she was suspended for life. Foekje wouldn't be a woman. After her death, she was diagnosed with an intersex condition. The fact that she had both female and male gender characteristics led to a successful athletic career being terminated prematurely. The CDA Group supports the starting point of the initiators that in a society in which people can be themselves, talents are better developed and better exploited. Unrighteousness must be combated not only in order to protect human dignity but also to allow people to work with their talents, because everyone has a job in our society. Discrimination based on sex is already prohibited at the moment. In other words, if the government makes a difference on the basis of gender, there must be good reason for that. For no good reason, discrimination on the grounds of sex is discrimination. This also applies to people who do not feel fully at home or who do not feel fully at home in the sexual role that fits the external sexual characteristics they have been given at birth, and to people who have both male and female characteristics. That is why I quoted the example of Foekje Dillema. Because of the discrimination that was caused to her, important talent for our society was lost. The General Law on Equal Treatment protects people on the basis of their essential characteristics and of their being. According to established case law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities and according to the established line of judgment of the College of Human Rights, the term "sex" should be understood broadly in the General Law on equal treatment, including discrimination against transgender and intersex persons. Reports and legal practice do not give rise to any doubts as to this broad interpretation of the concept of'sex'. According to the proposers, the legal amendment is not necessary either. The CDA Group agrees with the initiators' view that the legislative proposal is therefore not intended to be a substantive amendment of the law. Mr. Chairman. This does not mean that the initiative proposal does not raise any questions with the CDA Group. This is partly because of the content of the proposal itself and partly because of the arguments put forward by the authors in relation to the questions that we have already put in the written round. The legislative proposal rightly takes as its starting point that transgenders and people with intersex conditions in society run up against walls that should not be there. Here we are talking about two groups in which the concept of "sex" as such is not under discussion. They are groups that have characteristics of both sexes: one permanent, on their way to the other sex, the other permanent in between due to biological conditions. In addition, the bill introduces the concepts of "gender identity" and "gender expression." Unlike transgenders and persons with intersex condition, this is not a form of intersex or a transition from one sex to another. This is a personal experience, whether or not from time to time, of one's own gender and the way in which people want to shape it. In the report, therefore, the CDA Group has also asked about the usefulness of these concepts when it comes to weighing personal experience. Our question, also to the proposers, is how a government or a judicial authority can weigh discrimination based on a personal, non-standing experience. Maybe they have some good examples. I ask that question again here, because the initiators have mentioned in writing a little crooked comparison as far as we are concerned. Other grounds for discrimination, they say, also concern a personal experience. They refer to religion, belief in life and political orientation. However, a judge will always check, for example, when claiming freedom of religion, whether a conduct based on objective grounds can be considered a religion, regardless of whether political or philosophical views are created on the basis of a feeling. In that respect, before the courts, not everything is subjective. Can the applicants justify how they see the relationship between discrimination based on the inner perception, in this case gender, and discrimination based on objective facts such as age, race or nationality? Could anyone who objectively does not meet these criteria be able to rely on these grounds of discrimination? For this reason, I would ask the proposers once again to justify the usefulness of these concepts. I am really concerned with the technique of the law. Mr. Chairman. The initiators argue that the distinction based on one's physical sexual characteristics is becoming less and less relevant in society and that boundaries between what is considered to be "male" and "female" fade away. That position is quite common during discussions, and it is in place for this bill. But if so, I ask the initiators. The CDA Group notes that, even by the CDA Group itself and to a greater extent by the groups to which the initiators belong, the distinction between women and men is being discussed more often. For example, the commemoration of 100 years of universal suffrage in this house awaits the milestone of the introduction of women's right to vote. Let me just remind you of the presentation of the cabinet, where the central question was: how many women are in it? The result of the municipal elections led to the question: how many women are on the council? There is an initiative legislative proposal in the Chamber on equal pay for men and women in business. As a spokesperson for higher education, I deal with the question of how many women are now professors or are involved in science. In short, even at the request of the Chamber, there is continuous peating on the basis of physical sexual characteristics. I agree with the authors that, if the government makes a difference on the grounds of sex, that should not be unjustified, because that would involve discrimination. Do the authors agree with me that there are nevertheless justified reasons for establishing gender and that, despite differences of opinion, it is the socially accepted norm that is spoken in terms of men and women? Clarity on this can also help a great deal to put into perspective, for example, the discussions on gender and gender that are constantly emerging around this issue. I'll put that question to the initiators. The argument of the initiators in answering the questions does not reassure us on every point. The initiators note that wherever a distinction is made between women and men, this is done on the basis of stereotype assumptions, always excluding part of the actual target group wrongly. In this context, they refer to the population research into cervical cancer. The proposers would find it more appropriate, I translate it into my own words for a moment to register nationally who has a uterus than to register who is male or female, because there is a small group of people who may have a uterus but who is registered as a man. The CDA Group considers it logical that the government or authorities simply assume that they are registered as women in the population register. Do the initiators share the opinion of the CDA Group that inviting men to a population survey on cervical cancer would be an undesirable consequence of the initiative proposal? For in everyone's common sense the question immediately arises: for what problem is that a solution? Do not the proposers confuse concepts such as "sex-based distinction" and "gender-neutral"? I'd like a response from the initiators. Finally, Mr President, I have a question for the Minister. Have the initiators actually done the work that the cabinet has left behind? Indeed, the Minister for Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations already undertook in 2013 in the main letter Emancipation Policy to explore whether and, if so, how the prohibition of discrimination based on gender identity and gender expression can beexplicated in the General Equal Treatment Act. Mr. Chairman. We are happy to include the answers of the initiators and the minister in our final position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u12	Thank you. Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u13	It is not entirely clear to me where the CDA Group stands and whether it sees the added value of this bill. If this is the case, I have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u14	Go ahead, Mr. Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u15	I have begun to argue that people who are transgender or who have intersex conditions are discriminated against in our society. I also note that what we have now legally regulated, including the views of the initiators themselves and others who have looked at them, is well arranged. But I certainly have a positive feeling that the initiators are proposing that this should also be explained in the law. The questions I am asking are not so much a matter of a kind of assessment of them or of a positive or negative attitude to them at this stage. I just want to see what we're dealing with right now. Then the question is: how useful are these concepts in practice? I think it is a good opportunity for the initiators to work this out for the second time. I also note that it is not just a technical discussion. Even when I bring up the subject myself and talk about it with people, it raises a lot of questions. It is precisely the acceptance of what we are going to explicate in this law that is very important to me, because the law can aim to change practice, but people need to understand exactly what it means. And it's just a legal question: how are we going to do this? If there are any good examples of this, I would like to be convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u16	That's very positive news. First of all, I had the impression that the legal added value was questioned at all, but I understand that the CDA Group is in principle in favour of an adjustment of the AWGB and looks more closely at the why of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u17	Yeah, that's how we're in it. For example, the CDA also supports the designation in the Constitution of discrimination based on sexual orientation, as mentioned, or disability. So that is also the explication of the rights or the protection of others. I also mention these examples, because it is not just theoretical. If you think about the consequences and the discussion that this may have, I think it is very good that we should put these questions on the table and discuss them with each other, so that all the groups can make an assessment. But I'm not standing here with the intention of firing it. But to clarify it further and also simply to make a contribution to this, perhaps in some technical words, with the sober look that is also looked at from outside this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u18	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u19	Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me express my appreciation for colleagues in trade union K and for supporting the work that has been done. It will be clear from the course of my speech that the SGP disagrees fairly thoroughly with the proposal before us, but that is without prejudice to the fact that a great deal of work has been done, and that is something that is worthy of peer appreciation. Here's to it, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Those who look for children's clothing for a son or daughter at an unnamed department store must now look very carefully. A separate department is no longer there and clear labelling of clothes is not possible there nowadays. Imagine if ordinary simple people, like me, could be made clear with a few clear terms where they could now find the right garment for son or daughter. Is there now a social-wide desire to replace the concepts of man and woman? Well, not at all! The vast majority of the sober Dutch are explicitly or implicitly opposed to such plans and I quote "gender madness." Anyone who listens to ordinary citizens for a moment can see how laughable one finds the discussion about "the dear travelers" of NS, or the hype of gender-neutral toilets. Maybe this is a time for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u20	You'll probably feel that yourself when there's a block where we can do it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u21	This is a good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u22	I have a few questions and one comment. My first comment is to the colleague. We can disagree with you in the strongest possible terms. We can vote against proposals. We can take down arguments. I am here as a representative of all the people in the Netherlands and I want to show respect to all those people, even though I may not entirely agree with certain views. I am therefore a little uncomfortable with the way in which my colleague starts the debate. Then my question. Back to the beginning, about the clothes. What exactly are boys' and girls' clothes? What's the problem now if you have a whole floor of clothes at your disposal, when you're five and you can walk around in there and pick what you want from your mom and dad? I don't see the problem. I would like some clarification on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u23	First of all, the way in which I open this contribution. I am a little surprised by what Mr Ploumen has said. What I've done is just signal a number of cases. There are those department stores that take this kind of action. There's an NS that makes decisions. I would like to point out that, in society, this leads to shrugging and amazement: what are people worried about? I am going to devote a few words to this bill and to the position of the people about who it is. Sure. That too is my responsibility. But I am surprised that such examples already lead to such a reaction. The honourable Member is free to do so, but I do not think it is right. And what's against racking with children's clothes, girls, boys and so on, predominantly pink, blue, that sort of thing... Yeah, I'm just gonna go full-bodied: what's against it? Exactly what's against that? Nothing at all. There's a department store that for whatever reason chooses not to. But I don't understand that very much, and that's what I'm picking up. The choice is beyond that department store. That's up to the department store.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u24	Two brief comments. One. The fact is, when I'm on the train, I'm a traveler. I don't think that's a big deal. Two. I sense a little pink in my colleague's tie and at least I'm wearing blue shoes. So I think it would be good to pass a bit of stereotypes and give everyone the right to wear pink and blue, whether or not to follow certain preferences. That is all I ask of my colleague. Be heartfelt with us, but show respect to everyone. I would appreciate that very much and expect a party like the SGP as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u25	Of course, I speak with great respect about the people involved. But that is independent of measures that others think they should take. And as far as color is concerned, I'd like to give everyone the color he or she chooses. To clear up a misunderstanding: it may be that these burgundy accents in my tie look like pink to someone else, but that's what I'm experiencing. I feel different, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u26	I do, of course, sympathise with what Mr Bishop says. It seems terrible to me to have to wander through a department store like Mr. Bishop and simply no longer know where to buy those children's clothes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u27	A department store at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u28	...and which colors can and which belong to a boy and which are with a girl. And then sitting on the train when you get back from that department store and then the conductor says "best traveler" to you. Those are, of course, draconian things. Which brings me to the question of why Mr Bishop did not start with what is quite annoying, and that is discrimination. The cases mentioned here in the written contributions. People who suffer from the fact that they are not accepted. People who don't dare come out because other people experience discomfort. Actually, the inconvenience you're putting up here. So I would like to ask you, why didn't you start that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u29	When it comes to discrimination, you have to ask yourself whether a bill like this, which has far-reaching consequences, will contribute to reducing discrimination. Whether this is not the totally wrong instrument to reduce experienced discrimination. You don't even need this bill for that, which the proposers themselves have already pointed out. But I will mention that later; it has already been mentioned. And then about the horror of being addressed with "traveler" when I'm on the train. Let me put it this way: may I feel discriminated against? I want to be addressed as a "lord." "Ladies and gentlemen." Fortunately, there are a lot of conductors who simply obstruct and continue to do so classically, and I want to encourage them to do so in particular. But the SGP does not call for civil disobedience, of course; that is obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u30	Whether you agree with this solution of a law or not, we can argue about that, I agree with Mr Bishop immediately. But that is not what Mr Bishop says. He starts with "gender madness."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u31	I quote, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u32	Yeah, quote. With any agreement, I'll see. And if it isn't, I think it's fantastic. Then you can take that back now. Then we're a little close. My point is: I do think that this is a very important point, and I think it is important that we make a point here today about discrimination on gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression. You're kidding. It's up to you. I would like to ask you seriously for a very serious answer from you, not whether you like this law, but whether you recognise and recognise that problem and whether you think that something needs to be done about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u33	I strongly oppose making a joke of this. I also object to the fact that the fact that I come up with a number of specific points, which are more or less ahead of this law, is dismissed by putting it in the corner of jokes. That is by no means the case. I'm noticing what's going on in society, how people react. And indeed, if there is discrimination: that cannot be tolerated. My big question is: is a proposal like this really the way to act against it? So I don't believe anything about that. It's a very different matter. There's a lot more going on than just not discrimination. There's a whole ideology underneath it, but that's my next paragraph. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u34	Then Mr. Beertema, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u35	Mr. Chairman. I do not have a direct question to Mr Bishop, but I do have a comment. I'm gonna put a heart under his belt. I can do it if I get to know the views of millions of Dutch people on this issue. The fact that that is put away by Mr Ploumen as disrespect.......................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u36	And your question to Mr Bishop is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u37	None.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u38	Okay. You may respond to it and then you may proceed with your argument, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u39	Thank you for this support. Then there are the things that I have indicated, just in a descriptive sense, and which seem to be sensitive, which I cannot do anything about. When you look at such small changes on their own, they seem quite innocent. But if you spit a little deeper and you read for example the Yogyakarta Principles of 2006 and 2017, you see that a tip is being executed here from their shopping list, then you see that that shopping list is not finished by a long shot and you see that this is a tip of the iceberg and that it is an ideology behind it. That is an ideology which seeks to blur the concepts of man and woman as much as possible. In the terms of the proposers, I quote: 'on the basis that the concept of sex should be regarded as a continuum in which every person, woman/man and something in addition, in between or in front of him, enjoys the same level of protection against discrimination'. This is an ideology which also has far-reaching consequences for the position of family, family, with far-reaching consequences in the legal field and the consequences that this entails. Mr. Chairman. What stings us as SGP is that it is in fact a resistance to the biological reality and the natural fact of being men and women: two sexes that together are part of that beautiful order that God has placed in his creation, in nature. The SGP wishes to maintain this principle fully and therefore opposes a far-reaching relativisation of the clear distinction between men and women.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u40	Mr. Chairman. I was equally surprised because I believe that Mr Bishop just said about the Yogyakarta Principles: it is their agenda. I was just watching Wikipedia real hard. Whose agenda exactly do you think that is, Mr. Bishop?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u41	Thank you for this question. That is a very good question. It is a team of experts, funded by the United Nations, which published its programme in 2006 and completed it in 2017 and is an inspiration for all kinds of lobby groups that do their work in this area, gender identity and gender diversity, and also receive subsidies from others. That is the reality. There's nothing else I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u42	The reality is also that, for example, the Council of Europe has endorsed this, that a number of Member States have endorsed it,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u43	The UN.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u44	Yes, the UN. All these state actors have endorsed this. People's representatives voted on this. The fact that you do it as an obscure group is perhaps only wishful thinking, because these are principles that are now widely endorsed at all levels: at European level, by Member States. So now to take this off as if some kind of ideological hex is going on... This has been endorsed by people's representatives, so perhaps you can talk about these principles with a little more respect, as we also talk with respect about matters such as the European Convention on Human Rights. That wasn't written by Hullie either. Although a group of lawyers wrote it down, it was then endorsed by politicians. So maybe a little more respect for these principles.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u45	The fact that the principles have subsequently been taken over by various bodies does not mean anything about the ideological content of these principles. That's what I want to put my finger on. It is a completely different view of the natural order. From my belief, I said, on the order of creation. "Man and woman He created them." I come to the point that there are other situations as well. I would certainly like to say a few words about that. But the ideology that lies below runs counter to ideology, the views I derive from nature and the Bible, the creation and the Creator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u46	Mrs Buitenweg, I actually want to do the interruptions in two today. So you are no longer allowed, and I am going to give Mr Van Dijk the floor. It's common. Interrupts in half. Go ahead, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u47	I think Mr Bishop just announced that he was about to start. I respect every opinion in this Chamber a priori. So he can find out what he wants from this law, but does he also deny that about 1 in 200 people have intersex conditions? In doing so, the physical sexual characteristics are a direct proof that you do not belong to any of the categories, man or woman. Do you deny that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u48	I'm not denying that. I do not deny that these people are there and that this also brings with them a certain experience. I find the numbers very vague. I've been looking into that a little bit. I hear Mr Sjoerdsma mention a number of 50,000. Then you're talking about a little bit of a 3%. There are also numbers that are 0.5% and 1.5%. But those numbers are not, as far as I am concerned, the main issue either. The point is that these people are here. It's about whether you serve it best through this regulation. And then I say that's not the case. I will also give an example later that exactly the opposite is the case. And that's not made up, but it's just from contacts with the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u49	The latter may; it is your full right to say so. But I think it is important that we agree and that Mr Bishop also recognises that the intersex group is there. So these people can't be divided into the binary group, in the black and white distribution man or woman. There's a category there. I think that is essential, because otherwise you will deny some of the reality and then it will be very difficult to debate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u50	Yes, that's right, that would be very difficult. That is not the case. If I may continue my argument: does this mean that you deny that there are people who do not recognize themselves in their husbandness or being a woman? No, of course not. Those people are here. We also realise that this can be accompanied by tension, uncertainty, pain, and the experience of being discriminated against. We certainly do not want to trivialise these problems, but the question is whether, as a government, you have the task, on the basis of these exceptions, if you look at the whole, of violating the natural main rule that is the starting point of being a man and a woman, the main rule of being a man and a woman. Mr. Chairman. Then this bill. What's changing this? The following is added: "Sex-based discrimination means discrimination based on gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression." In short, the starting point is that every visible person must be able to be himself. This starting point raises the question of whether there is always a limit somewhere between what is and what should not be permissible or regulated. I'd like to see the proposers reflect on that. And I'm deliberately focusing on it a little. That's not to be annoying, but to get the point straight. Do the proposers consider that this principle should also apply to a person who draws the consequences from the adapted definition of the term "sex" and, for example, who enters into a polyamorous relationship, chooses to live polyamously or pursues a pedosexual relationship? And do the initiators think that the government should legitimize each individual feeling of identity? Mr. Chairman. There are also many people within the target groups covered by the bill who are fighting to be recognised as men or women. The vast majority of the population also likes to be addressed as husband or wife, lady or lord. Can the proposers comment on what this proposal means for all those people who want to be addressed in their husband and wifehood? Then the subtitle of the bill and the text. They're different. The subtitle states that it concerns clarification of the legal status of transgenders and intersex persons. Doesn't that just shut out other groups? For what is the precise meaning for the groups referred to by the proposers as androgynous persons, aliases, gender queers, gender fluids, polygenders, transgenderists, crossdressers? I'd like an explanation of that. The bill speaks of "sex characteristics," "gender identity" and "gender expression." When you ask for an explanation of the precise meaning, and that is not insignificant for a legislative proposal, you always hear similar terms as: the biological sex is determined by several factors, such as hormones, anatomy and chromosomes. But what these three legal concepts actually mean, so "sex characteristics," "gender identity," "gender expression," that doesn't really get clear. These vague terms of understanding mean that it is not clear who and what exactly protects the bill. The legal certainty promised is therefore in fact a bit vague and unclear. This applies both to the persons concerned, i.e. those concerned, and to those who can be called upon to comply with the law. That is, in our view, a very undesirable situation. Then the law is not suitable for enforcement. The Council of State also says that the bill is legally unnecessary and does not fit into the legal system of the AWGB, the General Equal Treatment Act. This is further reinforced by the applicants' claim that no substantive legislative change is envisaged, but only clarification. As far as we are concerned, the law is therefore not only unclear, but also, above all, symbolic legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u51	I would like to comment on this point. Following an incident with a Jewish restaurant owner, Mr Segers and I are thinking of criminalising hate crimes, which makes it clear that hate crimes must be punished more severely, even though there is already a current standard of the Public Prosecutor's Office to punish hate crimes more severely in practice. Would you be in favour of such a bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u52	In itself, I detest any form of hatecrime, from whatever side it comes. If the legislation is not sufficient, I would certainly be prepared to think along with it, but you must be very careful to define that term, so that you also have a firm legal basis. Otherwise, it's better to row with the belts you have than to invent all kinds of unfortunate constructions. I wish you a great deal of wisdom and strength, because we have tried it too, but we are still a long way from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u53	I have good hope that this could be done, but the analogy I want to draw is that in both cases it is something which the judge already provides for, sometimes on his own authority, sometimes by means of directives, but where there is still a greater social interest in laying down something in the law. Precisely laying down the law makes the standard that we all set clearer. How do you see what the proposers intend to do with this bill, in relation to criminalising hate crimes? Do you see the analogy I want to draw?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u54	Sure. I understand the analogy you want to draw, but it goes so far as to say that defining the term "hatecrime" is incredibly difficult. For example, the definition of those three characteristics that the legislative proposal refers to is incredibly difficult to describe: gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression. That remains too vague in this bill. That makes the enforcement of this bill extremely difficult, both on the part of the people who experience it, and on the part of the people who are guilty of it, or whatever it is called.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u55	Then it is clarified that you are concerned with the definition, but that you can see the added value in itself when the definition is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u56	No, no, no. I have also pointed out with the Council of State that the bill is legally unnecessary. There is sufficient ground in the General Law on Equal Treatment. This has already been clarified by a colleague. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. It is then not clear by other laws which also concern men and women whether this should also apply to groups other than men or women. I take the same example of Article 2 of the General Law on Equal Treatment. In concrete terms, can positive discrimination against women still be allowed? Shouldn't the proposers be consistent and say that this is discriminatory? I agree with a number of questions that Mr Van der Molen has just asked. These aren't questions that need to be walked around for a while in the sense of: for the good cause you just have to step over here for a while. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Those who no longer want to talk about men and women should, for example, no longer want a policy of preference for women at the top of the business world. Is that right? Because that presupposes that there are again categories. This means that, in addition to being unclear, unnecessary and symbolic, the legislative proposal is confusing once again. Finally. The authors also want to see the law as a kind of information brochure. I'm sorry to end up a little ironic, but there's a reason for that. The aim is to promote more visible discrimination. But you don't have a bill for that, do you? That's what information brochures are for! Also from this legal systematic point of view, the SGP does not see any added value in this proposal. Precisely a general law such as the General Law on equal treatment should not include all kinds of sub-interests and fashion terms in every interest to be protected. Mr. Chairman. We very much look forward to answering these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u57	I had actually hoped to hear something like "people should be themselves," "it is important that everyone feels safe" or "it is important that there is no discrimination against these people." After all these observations, I had hoped to hear some sort of solution from Mr Bishop. The only thing he has done this evening is to propose an own-initiative proposal, he calls it "ironic," but let me just describe it as ridiculous, with an over-the-top introduction followed by really nothing but annoying questions, and that is allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u58	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u59	If Mr Bishop shares with us, with a large part of the Chamber, that there is indeed a problem, if he shares with us that these people exist, that seems to me to be a gain, also in relation to the natural principal rule that Mr Bishop systematically puts forward. What is Mr Bishop's solution? What is Mr Bishop going to propose here to improve the protection of these persons, their dignity and their freedoms?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u60	Mr President, I am sorry, but I continue to be surprised at the extremely sensitive tone that is taking place when I simply outline a real situation. It is the right of D66's colleague to record for that famous department store and for the NS. That is all right, but please do not blame me for pointing out that, from a social point of view, the eyebrows are being frowned upon and the shoulders are being lifted and that this is being played down. Having said that, the direction of solution I am putting forward is that you do not need this bill. I fully appreciate the efforts that have been made, I sincerely believe, but we do not need the result of the efforts. By following the existing legislation properly, properly applying it properly, even though it is possible to achieve exactly what you want to achieve here, without sinking into an endless set of consequences that have profound consequences in society as a whole. So let's not take this step. If that could be the decision of this evening, it would be a real gain for the Chamber and for society as a whole, for the whole of the Netherlands. So that's the way to solve it, to avoid misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u61	That sounds a bit like the solution direction: I notice with you that there is a big problem and my solution is that we leave it as it is. Of course, that's really complicated. Mr Bishop actually says that this law is not necessary, but he does not mention any other legislation, because he does not think that is necessary, and he does not think that other social initiatives are necessary either. I find this very regrettable by a Dutch party in a country in which we have not been ahead of us for decades, if not decades, in terms of fighting and broadening our freedoms, our abilities and our individual achievements. I am sorry that Mr Bishop's party, the SGP, would like to take five steps back here. In view of the involvement of the other parties here tonight, I regret that, but I would like to challenge him once again, and I would like to put that challenge here; because he says that we must fight this if we are to come up with a solution in this area, because then he can also surprise people positively rather than negatively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u62	Even if you think about the way things should be shaped, you must always keep a close eye on the usability and functionality. That's just what's at stake. I thought I had sufficiently demonstrated that in my speech. With this bill, you can't achieve what you want. You can achieve this by simply enforcing existing legislation and by working out it through case law. That possibility exists, but it must be exploited. I think that is a much more passable road than this bill, because here there is a drag of consequences that most of us are far from overlooking. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u63	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the Labour Party for her contribution to the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Tonight we are discussing the initiative proposal to clarify the legal position of transgenders and intersex persons. Greetings and many thanks to the initiators and to the employees who have spent a lot of time and energy on them. It is not a matter of waiting for the cabinet to take action, but of making proposals for change itself, which is what is good for people's representatives, so once again I would like to thank and pay tribute. Mr. Chairman. It may be called an initiative legislative proposal and we have all kinds of questions about legal implications, but in fact it is about human dignity, about the right to be who you want to be, about the right to be who you are and about protecting that right. That is why this is such an important initiative, because it is based on legislation. It confirms that right and enforces it. In practice, there is a need for this. We'll get that from people. People make us part of discrimination, whether at work or at the sports club colleagues have already given examples of this or just in everyday life. Better legislation encourages people to dare to be themselves. It increases the acceptance and it keeps us seeing that tonight the conversation is going on. That is also necessary, because 20% of the Dutch population now feels that there is something wrong with people who do not feel like a woman or a man. I repeat, as far as I and the Labour Party are concerned, this is about human dignity, about the right to be who you are. There should be no misunderstanding that discrimination should not be allowed, on no grounds or under any circumstances. That is why we support this and once again thank the authors of this initiative proposal. Mr. Chairman. Others have already said that there may be no need to explicate these specific grounds purely on legal grounds, but there is still so much more than the code. There is the social reality of every day. I would like to say the following to colleagues who are frowning about this with the eyebrows. It doesn't respect you any less if we respect someone else more. There is no end to the amount of respect, even in the Netherlands, especially in the Netherlands. I would like to call on them to look at this proposal through those eyes. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, I have three further questions to the authors and to the Minister. My first question concerns the monitoring of compliance with the rules. In fact, I come to Mr Bishop there a little bit, because he thinks that existing legislation is sufficient. At the same time, however, I note that it seems that the enforcement process is still going on. Monitoring is mainly carried out through the Human Rights College, but there are also specific monitoring tasks for different inspections in certain sectors, such as the Labour Inspectorate, the Health Inspectorate and the Education Inspectorate. Can the proposers and the Minister comment on the role of these inspections and cooperation between them when it comes to identifying and combating discriminatory behaviour? And how do we improve this with this initiative proposal? Mr. Chairman. The Human Rights College makes statements on equal treatment for people. That is very important, but it is not binding. This requires me to ask the Minister whether she would like to go into more detail about strengthening compliance with the rulings made by the College. This compliance can also be achieved by other bodies. Speakings therefore gain more strength and meaning in the daily lives of a lot of people. Finally, Mr President. Mr Jasper van Dijk already spoke about it: the ruling of the court in Roermond. The judge said that an option to register a third gender is possible. The court also referred to this initiative proposal. How do the proposers and the minister view that ruling in the light of this law? How do they connect and strengthen each other? Mr. Chairman. I am proud that we in the Netherlands have people's representatives who are committed to human dignity and the right of everyone to be who you want to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u65	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Bertema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u66	Mr. Chairman. I will begin with a compliment to my colleagues in trade union K and to their employees. They've done a lot of work with their bill of law. Now it's time. I'd better start with the bad news right away. In any event, the initiators have not convinced the PVV that there is a compelling need to amend the General Law on Equal Treatment for Transgenders and Intersex Persons. Let me explain to you why. I would like to emphasise that the PVV considers it a very good thing, a very good thing, that discrimination against transgenders and intersex persons is beyond doubt, and that it is more visibly worn. Absolutely. I would particularly like to ask the spokesmen of the PvdA and GroenLinks to make that very clear. Otherwise, I will have to reaffirm once again five times, as happened in a previous debate, that discrimination against women, sexually different modes and transgenders and intersex persons is particularly important to me. But we do not think that the proposal before us is the right instrument. Firstly, the Council of State says that there is no legal need. Everyone says that, and that's what we say. Reports and legal practice do not give rise to any misunderstandings about the broad interpretation of the concept of gender already provided by the General Law on Equal Treatment. The proposal does not fit into the legal system of the General Equal Treatment Act, according to the Council of State. Other people have remembered that, too. Although, according to the authors, this proposal might serve a social interest, the amendment of the law is, in our view, too far a bridge. What are our objections? This appears to be a minor amendment to the General Law on Equal Treatment. But the impact of that little change can also be enormous. Despite the comments made by the initiators that this proposal will not have a direct impact on other legislation, they do indicate that considering possible further consequences is a logical step. And they have thought about it, because they list a number of things: all laws and regulations that explicitly distinguish between men and women, for example the Equal Treatment Act, the Professional Requirements Decision, regulation on gender registration and so on. This change can therefore be seen as a springboard for initiatives whose scope and consequences, including for freedom of expression and academic freedom, cannot be seen at the moment. I am thinking of the example of a teacher in Canada, who showed a video in which Jordan Peterson was critical about all those alternative gender pronouns. I've seen a list of 40 alternative gender pronouns. This teacher wanted to show a different perspective to the students of the university, but that was not the intention. She was brutally called to order. The directors of the faculty described her actions as "gender-based transphobia, in principle seeing the identity of transgender persons as invalid." Then you should know that teacher didn't agree with Jordan Peterson at all. But that's how far it goes. This proposed change can also provide an opportunity for such a highly polarized discourse, as we know in the Anglo-Saxon world. The PVV understands the urgency of wanting to do something to improve the situation of transgenders and intersex subjects, but this change is, as far as we are concerned, more of an instrument for legalising the release of the binary idea of gender, the classification of men and women on the basis of gender characteristics. Furthermore, the proposal also covers undefined subjective concepts such as "gender fluid" and "gender fluid" that have already been passed. These are generally self-chosen concepts to establish an identity that can be experienced differently tomorrow or next week. That's everyone's right. It's everyone's right. But as far as we are concerned, the legislator can't do very much with this. Science doesn't provide any clarity either. There is currently great division over the number of sexes. While the general view includes two genders, male and female, some believe to recognise large numbers of genders that fall outside. Scientific insights and theories in that direction are very fresh. They are also controversial, if they are not subjective or indeed ideologically motivated. As far as I am concerned, the fact that there is still no definitive and scientifically substantiated list of all these alternative genders says enough. As for this ideological influence, the aggressive struggle of activists is not helping here. They are particularly concerned that transgenders and intersex persons are being used by them as a weapon in the cultural Marxist struggle against Western society. This proposal is a building block in the hands of those same activists. The end of these cultural Marxist activists is highly recommended: abolition of the concept of "sex." Some even go so far as to believe that binary sex would be mainly a western social construct. That's polarizing. That gives us suspicion. All this is without prejudice to the fact that transgenders and intersex persons in our society face major problems. More than half of all transgenders in the Netherlands were insulted, threatened or involved in violence in 2015, sometimes even systematically. Violence against lhbti'ers often involves Islamic perpetrators or "a group of young people," that well-known euphemism for usually Islamic-inspired violence. According to a report by the University of Amsterdam, 62% of the perpetrators of physical violence against lhbti'ers in Amsterdam would be of non-Dutch descent. Inside, the largest group would be Moroccans with 36%. Research also shows that the factor religion is the main cause of the difference in views between natives and non-Western migrants. As far as I am concerned, the initiators could therefore better focus on de-Islamicising the Netherlands than on this legislative amendment. Very important: the willingness of transgenders and intersex persons to report discrimination and violence is particularly low. According to some researchers, almost 90% would not officially report serious incidents such as threats, physical attacks, or sexual harassment. Research shows that, like the rest of the population, reporting or reporting is of very little use. As far as we are concerned, this is a very large part of the solution. There is a hugely important task for the police and the judiciary to increase this willingness to report. Of course, interest groups can also play a role in improving this area. Schools need to combat really active bullying and violence. Furthermore, as far as we are concerned, those TV programmes such as He is a Zij and Love me gender contribute many times more to the awareness and acceptance of this group than a legally unnecessary change in the law. For the time being, the PVV is not convinced of the usefulness and necessity of this proposal and considers the possible consequences to be very limited. But perhaps that will change in the first term of the initiators. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u67	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u68	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Also from the Christian Union first a word of appreciation to the proposers. Today, as representatives of the people, they are taking advantage of their right of initiative to work on their ideals. That's very nice. I congratulate them and their support for the great work they have done, also to answer all the questions that lived in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. In their proposal for an own-initiative law, the proposers wish to further elaborate and clarify the legal protection against unauthorized discrimination based on sex resulting from the general law on equal treatment. The Christian Union sees, with the proposers, that there is a group of people who experience that they are falling apart because they feel neither husband nor wife nor neither are. This observation calls on us to defend a society in which people can and can be themselves. Recognition, the full realization that you may be who you are, is therefore of great value. Mr. Chairman. The General Law on Equal Treatment is a further elaboration of Article 1 of the Constitution. That's an important article. "All who are in the Netherlands are treated equally. Discrimination on grounds of religion, belief in life, political orientation, race, gender or on any ground shall not be permitted." As far as the Christian Union is concerned, Article 1 of the Constitution is extended by a ban on discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation and restriction. But that is not what the debate is about today. Today we are talking about gender discrimination. So I'm gonna come up with the bill. The initiators propose to amend the law to clarify that gender-based distinction also includes gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression. The following questions are central to the assessment of the bill for the Christian Union. What is the added value of the bill? And is the bill really achieving the intended goal? Does this lead to greater recognition, greater legal certainty and awareness and in the end also to less discrimination against transgender and intersex individuals? I'll start with recognition. As I indicated, the Christian Union sees that people can fall between shores and ships. An explicitation of the ban on discrimination based on sex could then in theory add something to what we have already arranged. But I also agree with the authors that the distinction based on gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression is already covered by the law, because the term "sex" is so broad. The case-law and legal practice on this point do not give rise to any misunderstanding as to the broad interpretation of the concept of "sex." That is why I ask the proposers: what does the explication add, even legally? Can they go into that again? The legislative proposal aims to increase legal certainty. But I note, with the Council of State, that the introduction of three terms, namely'sex characteristics', 'gender identity' and 'gender expression', does not necessarily increase legal certainty in the general law on equal treatment, i.e. in other laws alone, and that there can be more uncertainty. This is particularly true since some of these concepts are not widely known and could lead to confusion. I therefore find it complicated that the authors have deliberately waived the definition of the three terms. We really wonder how clarifying the concept of "sex" with three undefined terms can lead to a desired clarification. That is the question I am asking the proposers. Isn't it better to stick to the broad concept of "sex" as we know it now and on which the whole legal practice has been developed? Moreover, the title of the bill refers to transgender persons and intersex persons, but the bill itself speaks about gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression. I would ask the authors to go into this in greater detail. How does this contribute to clarification? The aim of the draft law is to increase the awareness of the scope of the General Law on Equal Treatment. The Council of State notes that, in view of the intended increase in awareness, it is important to define precisely what is to be understood by the concepts used. There is ignorance, discomfort and incomprehension among many citizens, as the authors in the explanatory statement also write. In response to this comment by the Council of State, the applicants state that increasing awareness is mainly aimed at the knowledge of the General Law on equal treatment among those who are protected by the law, so that they know that the General Law offers equal treatment protection against discrimination based on sex and so that they know their rights. However, the authors do not comment on the comment of the Council of State that clarity about the concepts of "gender identity" and "gender expression" can also contribute to the awareness of the concepts in the outside world, society, which must comply with the law. How do the proposers see that? Do they share the view of the Council of State that awareness is also an important point in this respect? Mr. Chairman. Another point concerns the observation that the explicitation of the concept of "sex" does not appear to be limited to that law. The proposers have the chance that other laws will have to be amended as well. The use of specific additions and concepts in one law can have consequences for the same general concepts in other laws. The question is whether the concepts proposed by the proposers are sufficiently clear in this respect. How do the proposers see that themselves? And how does the Minister view this? I would also like to hear from the Minister whether the adoption of this proposal will lead to a substantive amendment of other laws. I'd like a response from the cabinet to that. The applicants argue that there is a social interest in putting the protection against discrimination against transgender persons and intersex persons beyond any doubt. I agree with them. However, the question for my group is whether amending the General Law on Equal Treatment is the right way to do that. What do you say about the groups you don't specify? Isn't the essence of equal treatment right that everyone is equal before the law? How does this relate to the proposal to give these groups a specific place in this law and not to other groups? Doesn't that lead to imbalance in this law? Mr President, concluding. It is good to establish today that the distinction on the basis of gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression is already covered by the General Law on equal treatment, that this is necessary and that this is desirable. As you have noticed, my group still has many questions about the proposal. We therefore await the response of the initiators before reaching a final verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u69	That last sentence is exactly about the question I had. 'Cause I'd gotten a little curious. There were a lot of questions, like other colleagues. Let us assume that these questions will be properly answered in a way that you can endorse. Then what is the hint you can give to the proposers in box K and to me behind the interrupt microphone? That was actually my question. Perhaps the colleague would like to take a hint of the veil on that after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u70	I understand where the question comes from, but this is what I am bringing in here today in the first term on behalf of the Christian Union Group. We really do have a few more questions. You've noticed. We are really waiting for the answers from the proposers. They will have to convince us to go along with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u71	That reassures me somewhat, because I consider the persuasion of the proposers to be very high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u72	We'll assess the answers when they arrive, so I can't anticipate that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-32.u74	Then we come to the conclusion of the first term of office. We're going to make arrangements with the petitioners about when they can answer the Chamber. We thank them very much for their interest in all the questions. Thanks also to the people in the public gallery and everyone who has been involved in this treatment. Thank you.
