ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on the registration by companies of workers' exposure to carcinogens. I welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, the speakers who have signed up for this debate and the public in the gallery. There is a four-minute speaking time. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the time we are having this debate this afternoon, someone dies in the Netherlands from exposure to carcinogenic substances in the workplace. Eight people die a day; day in, day out. How many of these deadly victims can be prevented is difficult to say, but it is crystal clear that we have to do everything we can to prevent victims. That's what agreements have been made for. For example, companies have to register it when workers are exposed to carcinogenic substances. That's not for nothing. Registration sounds like paperwork, but it's not. By knowing what is happening where, measures can be taken to prevent repetition, the company doctor knows what the employee is exposed to and can save lives. Now it appears that companies are massively failing to comply with the commitments made. However, 15% of the chairman of the companies in which the risk of exposure to carcinogenic substances occurs is subject to compulsory registration. For the SP, that's totally unacceptable. If 85% of companies don't do what they have to do, then it's completely wrong. The duty and the deal are here. If almost no one is gonna stick to it, then we need to maintain it. If 85% of motorists run red at a dangerous crossroads, the police will act. If 85% of companies do not adequately protect their employees against carcinogenic substances, then the Labour Inspectorate, currently the SZW Inspection, must intervene. How does the Secretary of State feel about this? That intervention doesn't work for the inspection. The number of inspections and investigations has decreased by one third since 2003: 6,000 fewer inspections. When it comes to the new inspection obligations, which follow from the Arbo Act that we adopted in 2017, a decision has yet to be taken on the amount of inspections to be carried out. We've been a year, and we haven't had those appointments yet. When does the Secretary of State propose to introduce the enforcement of legal obligations under the Arbo Act, such as having a risk inventory, an individual exposure register and a work-related health file? Is the Secretary of State prepared to come to the Chamber with a separate proposal? In addition, the amounts of fines that can be imposed are far too low. A company with 500 employees or more can be fined up to €3,000 per offense. By comparison, a company with one to four employees can be fined up to €300 if it does not have its business in order. That's not gonna wake up a big company. Does the Secretary of State agree with the SP that, given the seriousness of the possible consequences of an infringement, the amounts of fines are a joke? Is it prepared, for example, to align itself with the amounts of fines linked to the new privacy legislation, which are many times higher? According to the SP, companies should not only have a duty to record exposure to carcinogenic substances, but should also report this to the SZW Inspection, better known as the Labour Inspectorate, so that companies can be dealt with if they fail, so that measures can be taken to prevent it from going wrong again, and so that companies can be fined if later it appears that workers are exposed and the inspection has not been informed. On this point, too, I would like a response from the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you for your contribution. Mr Van Haga then took the floor on behalf of the VVD Group. We can all see that the members of the VVD Group have risen in great numbers. Mr Van Haga will be making his maiden speech at the moment. That means he's making a speech in plenary for the first time. It's good practice not to interrupt him. I wish him good luck. I call Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is my first debate in plenary, so you will understand that I am proud to be in your midst and proud to be able to help improve our country. I grew up in a free and safe Netherlands myself and I will do everything I can to keep it that way and that it will remain so for my children as well. With the subject of this debate, however strange it may sound, I have some personal affinity. Let me explain to you why. In the many years I spent before Shell abroad, I worked on drilling rigs myself with dangerous and also carcinogenic substances. Fortunately, the internal rules were always extremely strict, regardless of the country I was in, and the rules were always respected thanks to a thorough doctrine of the company itself. But no matter how well a company tries to take care of it, it can always go wrong. I will never forget that I lost some employees in the middle of the jungle in Gabon in West Africa at some point. I climbed into a container and there I saw on top of the bags of heavy chemicals two employees snap a nice owl, with danger for their own life, but without them knowing it. Sometimes training, warning, banning and punishing is not enough. In the end, of course, employees also have their own responsibility. There's no such thing as 100% security, no matter how much we'd like it to be. But that does not relieve us of the competence, of the obligation to strive for this. That, Mr President, brings me to the heart of this debate. The Secretary of State has asked Capgemini to investigate the state of registration of carcinogenic substances in the Netherlands. And Capgemini's conclusion is deadly, literal and figuratively. Firstly, the risk inventory and assessment, now known as RI&E, is only prepared by half of the companies. And if there is already a RI&E, it often does not lead to preventive measures. So it's still a paper exercise, and that can't be the intention. Secondly, the VVD finds it unimaginable that structural fixation of exposure data at individual level appears to be hardly taking place. Finally, the occupational health file. Here too, no fine, and as far as the VVD is concerned, an unacceptable conclusion. The focus is on absenteeism guidance and only 10% to 20% is focused on prevention. Moreover, the results from the RI&E and the exposure registers are not exchanged with the occupational physician. That is why my first question to the Secretary of State is: how come employers do not comply with the rules? Is the RI&E, for example, too complicated and, if so, should we not make things a little simpler and clearer, so that employers do draw up a RI&E and take preventive measures? The government wants workers to have a safer working environment. With the best of intentions, rules are devised to protect those workers. But employers, of course, have exactly the same objective. They too want their workers to be protected. If changes to the rules would make them simpler and clearer, while achieving the ultimate objective of protecting those workers, that would be a good step forward. I'd like a response from our secretary of state. Mr. Chairman. In its letter of 24 May, the State Secretary endorsed the conclusions of the report and announced actions. The actions consist of four elements: awareness raising, cooperation on prevention, information and knowledge sharing, and enforcement and monitoring. The VVD is pleased that the Secretary of State is taking firm action and has immediately started working on these problems, but in particular the fourth point, on enforcement and supervision, concerns the VVD. Mr. Chairman. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether the SZW Inspection is at present sufficiently capable of doing so. We also know that additional money has been made available in the government agreement for the Inspection Control Framework. Does the Secretary of State agree with the VVD that security should be given the highest priority if it is to be chosen in what area to maintain? Mr President, I will conclude. There's a report, the conclusions don't lie for it, but fortunately the Secretary of State has responded with determination and has taken immediate action. The VVD will closely monitor the planned actions and is confident that positive results will be reported in the foreseeable future. Of course, we would like to hear from the Secretary of State when we can expect the first feedback. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have met your expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you very much for your contribution. If you stand still, I have another little speech for you. Generally speaking, delivering your first speech in the plenary of the House of Representatives is quite exciting, but I think I can speak for all of them when I say: we have not noticed any of that. However, you spoke of pride, and I think that is quite right, because it is a great honour to be a representative of the people. You already were, but from now on also with experience in the plenary. Congratulations. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that we can congratulate you personally. Then I'd like to invite you to sit here for the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u6	We will continue with the debate on the registration by companies of exposure to carcinogenic substances. The next speaker will be Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, of course, the warmest congratulations to my colleague Van Haga. I think a very nice speech, with a personal story and a personal touch on today's subject. I look forward, like no doubt the other Members of Parliament, to a good cooperation. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the registration by companies of workers' exposure to carcinogenic substances. When you hear that, you know, registration, exposure, workers, companies, you think: these are pretty technical concepts. But what we're talking about is an estimated 4,000 deaths. In the Netherlands, an estimated 4,000 people die of occupational diseases every year. These occupational diseases are, of course, very often caused by dangerous substances. In many cases these are carcinogenic substances. I think we should all bear in mind that we are doing it for those people: the people who get sick of it, the people who die. I think there is enough need for us, as a Chamber, and also for the government to really do something about it. Then I come, Mr President, to the dilemma that we feel about it. Because we have read the Secretary of State's letter very well and we see many good things in it: information, awareness, information sharing. But I was also wondering where the real measures are. I'd like to talk to you about that today. First of all, we have the extension of the inspection. Mr Van Haga has just mentioned this. Of course, that is what we agreed in the coalition agreement. We also assume that there can be more capacity on this subject. But I do wonder how quickly new staff can be trained. How quickly can more checks be carried out at companies? How quickly can the inspection have a real effect on the hazardous substance component? I wonder how the Secretary of State sees that. On behalf of D66, I would also like to make three points on which we have questions. The first concerns the amounts of fines. We do have feelings for the point made by Mr Van Kent of the SP. We also looked up the fines. If, for example, you employ 90 employees, then you are certainly not a small company.You can get an administrative fine of €1,500. That's a little half a month's salary for an employee. For an employer, that's not so much. Are those fines enough to scare you? Could the Secretary of State say something about that? Secondly, the role of company doctors. We see that the role of company doctors has been strengthened in recent times. That is also very important. So-called basic contracts are now being introduced. In line with what Mr Van Haga and Mr Van Kent have already indicated, we wonder about the RI&E, the risk inventory and evaluation. Many companies do not use the RI&E, but a lot of company doctors cannot use them if they are, to establish the link between the occupational disease that an employee gets and what might be in the RI&E. That RI&E must of course include something about those dangerous substances. I ask the Secretary of State if, for example, we cannot include in that basic contract that every company doctor will have access to the RI&E and the individual exposure register by default. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. Today we are dealing with a flexible labour market. You may have worked with one and the same employer for a lifetime in the past, but these days it's different. An employee may first work with employer A with dangerous substances and then work with employer B with another dangerous substance and that the knowledge of what happened at company A may not be transferred to company B. I understand, of course, that privacy is also very important. We need to be careful that these data are well secured. But it is about health, so how can we do the transfer of medical data in a good way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you very much. Mrs Voortman has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks. Could it be that we are witnessing someone's first speech in plenary today and someone's last speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u9	That's right, Mr. Chairman. When I just saw all those VVD roommates, I thought: how nice that they are especially there for me! But unfortunately they have other work to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u10	It is noted; I can certainly say that. We just don't have a special form for it. But this is your last speech I understand from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u11	That's right. It's my last speech in a plenary debate. I'll talk in a general meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u12	Go get 'em! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u13	I will, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. About a quarter of Dutch companies work with dangerous substances. Working with dangerous substances exposes employees to an increased risk of, for example, lung disease or cancer. About 3,000 people die a year from a case of cancer that they develop at work. So you should expect everything to be done to prevent someone from getting sick because of his work, but unfortunately that is not enough. Recently it appeared that companies are lax in registering the extent to which individual employees are exposed to carcinogenic substances. They also do not make sufficient risk analyses and information from different experts is not shared enough. As a result, companies do not have a complete picture of the health risks to their employees. GroenLinks finds that worrying. Mr. Chairman. I think many companies know that they have to offer a healthy working environment to their employees. They may not always be fully aware of all the legal obligations involved, but this Secretary of State is working on this in itself. But for companies, too, the business case has to be right. The research shows that companies have doubts about this. They wonder what use all this registration has and think: it is a paper reality and mainly costs money; that is why we focus on failure. Companies must have the idea that with these instruments they actually get healthier employees and can avoid absenteeism, but that's not the way it works. Because the consequences of working with dangerous substances often only become visible late when someone is long out of service. Employers are therefore not confronted with the consequences and therefore have no incentive to do anything about prevention. So it seems that the short-term financial interests of companies outweigh the long-term health effects for their employees. We therefore consider it important to strengthen the position of workers. They must be well aware of the risks and must be placed in a position where they can make a fist towards their employer. But the investigation shows that employees are not sufficiently aware of their rights. Not half of the workers know that they have access to all kinds of data on a healthy working environment. Business doctors indicate that only a third of the works councils are committed to their function in the field of healthy and safe working. Of course, that's far too little. So there's still a world to be won here. In the letter from the Secretary of State, I completely miss this subject. That is why I am asking how the position of employees and their representation can be strengthened. How does the Secretary of State see her role in this? The inspection also has an important role to play, of course. The Secretary of State states that the inspection can focus on prevention and awareness, motivate and draw attention to this issue at company level. I think this investigation shows that this is far from enough. Motivating and attracting attention makes little sense if the companies do not want to see the usefulness of it and find it too expensive. Enforcement seems more appropriate to me. Does the Secretary of State have an idea of the number of known and known offenders and of the number of occasional offenders? What does it think of the FNV's suggestion to require companies to report information on carcinogenic substances to the inspection? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u14	Thank you. There is a question for you from Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u15	It's a short interruption, though. Mrs Voortman puts the financial picture on the table, she calls it a business case with the employers and then mentions the awareness among the employees. Does it not think that there is also an opportunity to achieve a huge improvement by raising awareness among employers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u16	Yes, I think Mr Van Haga has a good point there. It is also important that we raise the awareness of employers. I think that there are indeed employers who may not follow the rules unintentionally. So, indeed, we need to work on that as well. At the same time, I fear that employers may sometimes be unwilling to do so, because they do not themselves see the direct importance of it. This gives me the opportunity to congratulate Mr Van Haga on his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u17	Thank you for your contribution. I call Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about how companies deal with their workers who work with dangerous substances. This is an important subject, especially when you consider that there are 1 million people in the Netherlands working day in, day out with dangerous substances, carcinogenic substances. And not without risk. In fact, one in six workers is at risk of getting sick, to get asthma, COPD or lung cancer as a result of their work. In 2018 it is estimated that even 4,100 people die from occupational diseases; 3,000 of them die by working with dangerous substances. Every year. Mr. Chairman. These are shocking numbers. This should no longer be possible in 2018. You would think that companies would do everything in their power to minimise the risk to their employees, to avoid personal suffering for their employees. You would think that companies, in the interests of the company itself and of its employees, would simply comply with the rules laid down by law? Surely it is the primary responsibility of the employer to organise a safe and healthy working environment for his employees? How can it be that according to Capgemini's recent report, written on behalf of this Secretary of State, we are talking about this today, in practice, that exposure to dangerous substances is apparently hardly recorded at individual level? How is that possible? That is my first question to the Secretary of State. Can the Secretary of State indicate how serious the problem outlined in the report is nationwide? How many companies are involved in practice? How representative is this report? Does the Secretary of State agree with the PVV that employers should take responsibility? Does the Secretary of State agree with the PVV that companies that are demonstrably lax in registering and protecting their employees should be ashamed of themselves and dealt with hard? If so, what sanctions have been imposed on companies which have failed to comply with the rules? Mr President, I will conclude. Getting sick, and in the worst case even dying, because you have come into contact at work with dangerous substances and companies that are then lax: this is very serious and should not happen in 2018. I therefore expect this Secretary of State to take action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u19	Thank you. Finally, in the first term of the Chamber, Mr Pieter Heerma has the floor on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe that there is a broad awareness in this Chamber of the importance of employers being aware and aware of their role in providing a safe working environment for their employees. I also think, according to the debates we have had in recent years, that there are concerns in the Chamber as to whether employers are always sufficiently aware of this. I think that is why, at the beginning of February, Parliamentary support was given to the request for debate by Mr Van Kent of the SP in response to the Capgemini report, which nevertheless produced worrying results. The Secretary of State's letter puts the weighting of that report within frameworks, how representative it is. But I also think that she is aware of the concerns that lie in it. There are good measures in it. These concern both awareness and enforcement, in order to tackle this. So I want to support that. However, I also have a number of questions. Some of them have already been made by predecessors. The role of the company doctor in this whole has been adapted by June of last year. He's got a bigger role to point out to the employer. I think it's very important that this happens. It is also important that the Secretary of State reminds the industrial doctors of their responsibility to do so. This can increase awareness among employers, but perhaps also among employees. That's what Mrs Voortman was talking about just now. That company doctor can play a good role in that. I think it is very good that the Secretary of State intends to set up a specialised inspection team aimed at working with these substances and the importance of maintaining them if companies do not act adequately. At the end of the letter, the Secretary of State talks about the importance of enforcement and also about the importance of a safety culture. I think this is very important. I am curious to hear the answers to the questions put by colleagues from both the SP and D66 on the level of fines. But I would also like to broaden this to the question of what role the inspection can take to further promote that safety culture. Then I will come to another subject. We had a debate earlier, at the end of last year, on industrial accidents. Then I tabled a motion with Mr Van Haga saying that the inspection could impose mandatory safety improvement plans in the event of industrial accidents. I wonder if the Secretary of State will be able to tell us how far it is going with its work. She wanted to take this positively. This is also an inspection which not only imposes fines, which must be high enough and dissuasive, but can also say that the safety culture is not good and that this affects workers, for example because there is a risk that they will be exposed to dangerous substances. The inspection must be able to say: we demand that you improve this. Bearing in mind the motion that we tabled at that time in the context of industrial accidents, which will be further developed, I would also like to have a reflection from the Secretary of State on the role that inspection can play in promoting this safety culture not only through awareness but also through what I call preventive enforcement. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u21	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State has requested a short suspension to prepare the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u22	The Secretary of State is in the starting blocks for the answer. In the continuation of the debate on the registration by companies of workers' exposure to carcinogens, I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment for its first-term response. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Let me also begin by expressing a warm congratulations to Mr Van Haga for his maiden speech and his entrance into this arena. It's a special debate to do that, because it's really about something major. I think that we can all remember that horrible annual news broadcast in which we are told how many fatalities occurred that year. In 2017, there were 613, 613 people who didn't come home. If you ask people on the street if they know how many road deaths there are, I think we'll be able to get around that number. At the same time, there is the large unknown number, which has passed here a number of times today, of 4,100 people a year who die from a work-related occupational disease, 3,000 of whom are caused by dangerous substances. This makes dangerous substances genuinely known as an assassin. It is therefore of the utmost importance that we pay attention to this subject, because I would very much like people to know that they are protected and that anyone who leaves the door in the morning should come home in the evening and know that, after a number of years, that may still be the case. I am therefore very much in agreement with the concerns expressed by the Members of Parliament and the many people I am talking about on this subject. Let me put myself very clearly on that in this Chamber. I'm certainly not from the school that says, "It's all gonna be okay if you don't do anything." But I'm not from the school that says, "If you just take care of everything and shut it down, it's gonna be okay." I think the truth is in the middle of that. If we look at the facts underlying this problem, we can see that the research shows that too few companies fill in a risk inventory and assessment, that too few companies record who comes into contact with dangerous substances and that too few companies record what the medical record of the workers is. Even though companies that do not register everything properly can take care of their employees in other ways, and even if, if these criteria are not met one-on-one, there is not necessarily a life-threatening situation, I think it is very important that we note here with each other that we have not regulated these matters for nothing by law. I therefore think it is important to say here to all these organisations that they must comply with this duty, that it is not okay that this does not happen. It's gotta be better. As far as I'm concerned, we're going to do what we agreed and we're going to work on awareness. I repeat it to everyone who says that laws are not the only thing that is going to make us work on safe situations here. Awareness is important, but it can never exist alone. Working together on prevention is indeed necessary. This includes the provision of good information and knowledge-sharing, but certainly also the maintenance and supervision by a number of Members of the European Parliament as a stick behind the door. Your Chamber has asked questions about that. I like to walk by. I'll do that in this order. I would first like to address the questions raised and the comments that have been made on the risk assessment and inventory. Then I would like to comment on the policy on dangerous substances. Then I'd like to answer questions about the company doctor. I would like to comment on the employee position and then briefly on the supervision and the questions that have been asked about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u24	Thank you very much. I'm gonna count five cubes so fast. I propose to the spokesmen that they always ask any questions at the end of a block. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u25	Mr. Chairman. I've already talked about the risk assessment and inventory. It is an obligation for companies to identify how they are doing in their organisation. Several groups asked about the fines in this area. The MPs of the SP, D66 and the CDA asked if the fines for not having such a risk inventory are high enough. Mr Van Kent asked: can we not agree with the level of fines in the GDPR, for example? Examination of the inspection for reasons why employers do not have a risk inventory and assessment does not mention the amount of the fine. I also point that in the direction of Mr De Jong and Mr Van Haga, who have also asked questions about this. What are the reasons that companies indicate? The most commonly mentioned reason is the lack of knowledge. Hence the importance of awareness. A common reason is not finding it necessary to have documentation on risks assumed to be known. I find that worrying, so I think it is important that we also invest in better knowledge about risk inventory and assessment, as well as in its simplification. In line with the level of fines as laid down in the privacy legislation, I would say quite honestly that it is good for the sense of justice, but since it is not indicated as the main reason for introducing this obligation, I do not think that is appropriate at the moment. Mr Van Haga asked whether the risk inventory and assessment is too complex and whether we should make it easier. It is always good to strive for simplification, but the content and size of the RI&E are determined, inter alia, by the risks and risks in a company, the complexity of the production process and the size of the company. So in a general sense saying that it should be simpler, that goes a little too fast. It is particularly important to do what is practically manageable. What I think is a good instrument is, for example, the industry-RI&Es. They can support small businesses and also make the RI&E easier. This also gives people a handle to see what can work in their organization. We can also make use of new technological possibilities, for example with videos and pictures. This also allows you to make the industry-RI&E simpler, more interactive and more understandable. Mr. Chairman. That was what I had collected about the risk inventory and evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u26	Thank you very much. I see that has raised some questions. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Kent of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers from the Secretary of State. I hear her say that the amount of the fine has not been indicated as a reason why employers may or may not register it. But if we're going to rig up a whole enforcement device, if we're going to use inspectors to control employers, and they can't fine a small employer more than €300... Couldn't we turn that around? Could a very high fine not be the right reason for an employer to comply with the obligation imposed by the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u28	I actually had this question under the instruments of inspection, but it might also be good to give an answer to it now. It is true that the inspection will monitor this and can also issue fines. However, specifically, on the question of why organisations did not create RI&E, they do not indicate that this is because of the amount of the fine. They have not done so, because they think there is so much known about the use of dangerous substances in their businesses that they do not need to do so. That is why I do not see the relationship between the level of fines and this instrument, although it would be good for the sense of justice, especially in this debate. It must be common for organisations to include this in their administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u29	That's exactly my point. You ask organisations why they do not register and they say that the fines do not give a reason. Well, that makes a lot of sense, 'cause those fines are crazy low. In other words, if those fines were high, it could be a reason for an organisation to comply with its legal obligation. So I do not understand the Secretary of State's argument at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u30	If getting a fine is not a reason to do something or not to do something, then you have to look for other forms. Then awareness is very important. If the inspection is to be maintained, it will monitor different aspects of the policy and can also raise fines. In this respect, this is one element in the enforcement tools of the inspection, but there are others. Is there a relationship between the level of fines and the presence of the RI&E? Our investigation shows that this is not the case. That's why I'm going to look for more opportunity to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u31	Mr Van Kent, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u32	Yes, Chairman, finally. If these fines are so insanely low, I understand that it is indeed no reason for organisations to comply with the law. That is precisely why the SP Group is in favour of increasing these fines. That is why I shall table a motion to that effect in the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u33	The Secretary of State may still respond if she so wishes. Otherwise, Mr Raemakers has the floor for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u34	I think it's also a bit about the management picture. What kind of management picture do you have? What's your picture of employers? I don't think employers are bad people. I believe that employers are also intrinsically motivated to ensure safe conditions at work. I think that employers are also very shocked if that is not the case. So I can imagine that the Secretary of State says that fines is not the first thing an employer calls. But then we actually ask about the intrinsic motivation of an employer. Could we not investigate, I am not saying that we should do it, whether employers are more aware of the risks if the fines go up and if that is some kind of incentive to include the good things at this point in the RI&E?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u35	I'd especially like to see what works. I get it, but all the research shows that the problem is awareness. When employers say "the information on those dangerous substances is actually known elsewhere, so why should we do so?', We now have a number of possibilities to go one step further. I would also like to comment on the role of industrial doctors further down the line. They can say: I want to see the RI&E. I also come to the role of the works council and the role of employees. So there are still a number of steps to be taken that are, in my opinion, more effective than increasing fines, especially because it is a matter of raising awareness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u36	I also think that awareness sometimes goes hand in hand with higher fines. Let me give you an example. I call it the use of alcohol in traffic. Over the past decades, we have really made it very clear that alcohol is not done in traffic. At the same time, we have considerably increased the penalties compared to decades ago. You can see that this combined policy has an effect. So I ask the Secretary of State one more time: could she somehow look at how increasing fines can lead to incentives for other things and how this can make an employer more effective on its own? That is also in line with what Mr Heerma said earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u37	Again, I find this reprehensible. I would also like to make a normative assessment of this. The chances of you getting an inspection are low. That's more relevant than the amount of a fine. One of the things I want to hang on to is the extension of the inspection, which we will be discussing later this year. For example, it is about the frequency at which inspection can be carried out. The reason why the inspection can now be less present than we would like is that there should be a reactive presence while the capacity for preventive presence or inspections is currently limited. But we are going to make a big expansion on that. I see it particularly in the extension of these instruments. I think that we should conduct the discussion in this sense in full in the context of enlargement, rather than saying here that we are going to do so, whereas the research does not indicate that this is the cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u38	First of all, of course, the Secretary of State does not have to choose or-or. You could do You could do more to raise awareness and, linked to that, you could make sure that companies are very well aware that it is very important that the sanctions that are linked to them become stricter. In any case, we should make them heavier. That is a preliminary remark. At the beginning of this debate, I am now asking the following question, because it is essential for policy. We have the Capgemini report. That is why we are having this debate today, particularly on the number of deaths from cancer caused by the work they have done. I would like to know from the Secretary of State how this report relates to practice. How many companies are we talking about exactly? How representative is the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u39	I would have come to that question from Mr De Jong, but I shall now raise the question. I think monitoring and enforcement is an essential part of what we are doing with each other here. Although awareness, as well as information and prevention, has a very large place in what we are doing, this cannot be done without supervision and enforcement. However, on the basis of the agreements we have made with each other, we are working on extending supervision and enforcement. In the third quarter of this year we will take decisions on this matter. However, I would like to avoid the impression that we would regard monitoring and enforcement as a final step. As far as I am concerned, it is an essential part. Mr De Jong asks for facts and figures. In 3% of companies in the Netherlands, the risk of carcinogenic substances is present, but not adequately controlled. These are numbers that find their source in Arbo in Company 2016. What I now declare is also from the letter of May 24th. 80% of companies in which workers can be exposed to carcinogenic substances, the risk companies, are taking action against this. Measures are therefore taken in 80% of companies. Of the risk companies, 5% have the mandatory additional exposure registration of employees. 15% register workers or substances. Of the companies with more than 100 employees, that is 34%. As far as I am concerned, these figures are on the wrong half, so we need to improve them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u40	Capgemini's report says on page 15: the results do not give a representative picture of the practice. On the basis of that report, this debate has been requested. One thing we know for sure is that 4,100 people die per year from an occupational disease and 3,000 of them from dangerous substances. I am raising this because this may indicate the urgency of the problem. I do believe that the Secretary of State feels this urgency, but it may gain a little more value if we realise that every year 3,000 people die from carcinogenic work. In other words, is the Secretary of State prepared to indicate to the Chamber today that enforcement is given top priority as regards SZW? And that the purpose of the Secretary of State is to drastically reduce the risk of annual deaths? Can she promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u41	Specifically, as far as the research is concerned, it is true, and that is what the report states. It is, in terms of research terms, a qualitative and exploratory research and therefore not representative, but we do have figures and they are very worrying. We must also be very keen on what the report concludes, namely that the cycle of occupational health policy is failing. That is why I have also indicated, however important it is for companies to introduce the instruments required by law, such as registrations, that it is not a one-to-one thing to say that it is therefore a dangerous situation if you do not have those registrations. It is true that you can expect that protection from your employer and that we have not legally anchored those instruments for nothing, because they lead to better protection and better awareness. I would like to make a heartfelt commitment that protection and safety, healthy and safe work, is a top priority for me. I would also like to confess to you that, when launching the campaign to combat dangerous substances as an assassin, I was really shocked by these figures. I also spoke with people in the roundtables about how, in practice, the importance of safe and healthy work can be put under pressure and how to deal with it. As far as I'm concerned, it's top priority. In the development of the ICF, in order to make it very concrete, we have said "healthy and safe work," but psychosocial labour factors, for example, also play a role. And so I think that in the third quarter of this year we should also look at this decision-making process. We're heading for a distribution. This division is largely based, for example, on honest work. We are also heading for the use of a number of measures to better inspect dangerous work, for example with teams going to companies that carry major risks. But in the third quarter, the decision on the allocation of resources and the choice of priorities lies with the Court of Auditors in the plan for the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u42	Finally, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u43	That's exactly my point. It's about so many victims. I imagine the Secretary of State was shocked, but it's not a new fact. It's something that's been going on for years. I hope, therefore, that the Secretary of State will be able to say today that she will not be able to indicate in a few weeks' time what the distribution of these funds looks like, but that we will ensure that it is placed at number one, because as far as I am concerned, it will be given all the priority. Of course, it is a top priority, and I understand that myself, but it must also be translated into action. That means it's going to be number one and we're going to make sure that the number of victims goes down drastically. I'd like to see it go to zero. I suppose the Secretary of State would like to do the same, but I'd like to see it reflected in the actions. So can the Secretary of State promise that it will be number one and that it will be given the corresponding priority?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u44	If you are discussing whether you think it is more important that someone deserves the minimum wage properly or that someone knows so protected that they do not die as a result of their work, then it is humanly logical that you make the choice for the second. At the same time, we have regular debates in this Chamber on what we consider to be important and on which the inspection should be maintained. Last week, for example, we had a debate on combating labour discrimination. In relative terms, this is not comparable to a situation where people die from their work, but it is also an important enforcement priority of the inspection. I think it is important to point out here that we are heading for decision-making on the basis of the ICF. There is a large component "fair work and healthy and safe work." I think it is important that we should be able to weigh this up with each other in the autumn and that the Chamber should be aware of this. These debates help to give priority to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u45	The Secretary of State continues her reply. If I understand correctly, she is now at the second block on dangerous substances policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u46	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Haga asked what I would do to improve the protection of workers from dangerous substances. Mr Raemakers asked: where are the real measures? In the debate, Mr De Jong was right to point out that it is the employers who have a primary responsibility. My main aim is therefore to encourage employers to do so, if required by legal obligations. I do so not only by clarifying and aligning the legal obligations now laid down in the law, but also by raising awareness and by maintaining it. The Inspection SZW is committed to this with the programme Companies with dangerous substances. It develops tools for employers and employees and inspections are also carried out. On 14 May, I launched the Programme on Occupational Diseases. At least for the first two years, this is aimed at preventing occupational diseases caused by substances. Improving cooperation between professional groups is high on the agenda as well as encouraging preventive measures in the workplace. To make it very practical: think of the mechanic in a garage for example. We all know the footage from the old days, where someone sat up to his elbows in the fat. But due to good suction and good personal protective measures, someone can now work healthy and safe. The mechanics even have clean nails these days, that's how they showed me. Recently, the Dutch association of occupational health professionals, the association of occupational health professionals, recently offered a newly developed guidance on PMO fabrics. This guide will help professional groups to advise on substances and strengthen cooperation. Various activities will be carried out in the programme on occupational diseases, including the use of this guidance. Soon I will send a letter to the Chamber about setting up a knowledge platform that will focus on landing and securing all these tools and the knowledge that there is about safe working with dangerous substances in companies in the Netherlands. Mr Van Kent asked if I am prepared to oblige companies to report information on carcinogenic substances to the SZW inspection so that this inspection can be better maintained. Here too, feeling and the question of whether it is effective are competing with each other. I think it is particularly important that we now meet all the obligations we have. Companies have obligations and are far from meeting them; we have just seen the figures. So I wouldn't opt for adding new obligations, but I would let companies comply with what they already have to do. The provision of such data costs capacity, including at inspection. That capacity doesn't go to inspecting. And that's what we just found out with each other that we're in a bit of a bind. It is not for nothing that I welcome the extra resources in the coalition agreement, to give it a huge swinger. Then I would be sorry if it went to administrative action rather than to an actual inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u47	That was the end of the second block. Mr Van Kent has questions about this. Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. How does the inspection know at this point at which plant it is to check because there has been exposure to carcinogenic substances?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u49	The inspection will decide where she inspects. She can do that in different ways. By signals: if a union or a works council sends a signal, the inspection must act. We've made agreements on that that are legally established. By individual employees: they can make a notification and then the inspection must act according to business. The inspection also has its own programmes and knows, for example, which branches are at risk of such things and zooms in on them. And, of course, there's data analysis. The inspection therefore has several possibilities to determine who it will inspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u50	But despite that, we see that the number of inspections since 2013 has decreased by a third; I mentioned it in my contribution. The extra money from this government is getting under way. It builds up slowly over the next four years. Surely it would be much better if the inspection knew immediately where something went wrong, so she could go straight to it as well? For example, if an accident happens now, it will also be reported at the inspection, so that we can look directly at what has gone wrong. I believe that the 3,000 deaths caused by these dangerous substances every year are sufficient, especially if you see that companies do not care about the rules we lay down here. Only 15%! 15%! The exposure shall be monitored by holdings. I think it's up to the man. I think it's important for the inspection to know immediately if there's anything wrong so she can go after it. Doesn't the Secretary of State see that need? Does the Secretary of State not see that action must be taken quickly and that it is done with fine talk and a great deal of information? A great deal of information is fine, but it cannot be done without direct and hard intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u51	I believe that action should be taken hard and immediately where it is necessary. That is why I welcome the extension of the inspection. At the same time, I just have to be realistic about that, that we have 1.6 million companies in the Netherlands. Even if you had an unlimited budget, you can't control everything at every organization. So you have to be as effective in that as possible in a smart way. This also means good cooperation with industry, as much as possible, and giving workers their rights so that they too can make the call. It means that you work with good examples, but certainly also with good analyses, so that you know where to inspect. The decline in recent years is also reflected in Mr Van Kent's report by the fact that it is a duty for the inspection to act if there has been an accident at work. This means that, for example, this capacity cannot go to the inspection of such cases. That is one of the reasons why I am also very happy with enlargement in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u52	Mr Van Kent, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u53	In my view, the figures are such that the percentage of the reduction in the number of inspections was equal to the percentage increase in the number of accidents. There has been irresponsible cuts in that inspection. But when my party proposed that the additional funds for the inspection should be spent much faster during this period of government, so that more capacity would be available for inspection and that capacity would be available soon, this Secretary of State rejected it. Now we are making a proposal, the SP always likes to think along with it, in which the Labour Inspectorate hears directly when there has been an exposure somewhere, so that they can go directly to it. I think that is extremely efficient. If this government, with that extra money and that additional inspection capacity, wants to wait a few years to build it slowly, I think that a proposal such as we are doing here can help greatly to reduce the number of fatalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u54	I am very pleased with the proposals made in this Chamber, and I am always happy if they are also well-founded and constructive, and Mr Van Kent's proposals certainly are. But I have already told him in the debate on the interruption during the previous debate that it takes time, as much as I would like us to do so more quickly to recruit people, train them and give them the skills of the inspection. There is currently a tight labour market that we too are suffering from, so we are doing so as soon as possible. When it comes to the registration of dangerous substances, I can place his proposal well, but I would also like to see a workable situation where responsibilities are also well invested. We all know the dangers of asbestos. You don't have to remind anyone that that's dangerous. But the campaign I recently launched deals precisely with all those dangerous substances that may in the long term also be assassins, but which may not be as well known as dangerous substances at all. Think of something like baker's meal, for example: a very dangerous substance when exposed to it on a daily basis. The administrative supply of dangerous substances is therefore an enormous administrative burden which is at the expense of the capacity of the inspection. I would not choose to do so at the moment, but I am committed to extending the inspection as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u55	It is not entirely clear to me why the Secretary of State does not choose to oblige companies to report this information. It rightly indicates that there are a lot of companies in the Netherlands and that the capacity of the Labour Inspectorate is about all those companies. But when a company is obliged to report that data, the inspection can then use its capacity more specifically. Now it's a bit of a search for a needle in a haystack. The moment those pins are delivered themselves, isn't it much easier to see where to go anyway? So I'd say it's gonna be easier. I would therefore like the Secretary of State to take that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u56	I also feel the urge to act, because when you hear this and people talk about this, you want to do something. At the same time, I can see that we already have a multitude of measures that are being poorly respected and which we are already maintaining less than we would like, given that, by definition, limited capacity. That is why we have taken action. If we add an extra task now, I do not see how it can be of added value, whereas I estimate that this is a major administrative burden. So I want to focus on fulfilling all those legal obligations that are already there, not adding new ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u57	It is equally unclear to me whether the tasks of the employers or the tasks of the inspection are at stake. When it comes to the tasks of the inspection, I believe that with such a compulsory registration, you will ensure that they can be used more effectively. As far as the tasks of employers are concerned, we already expect them to register and so it is only a matter of passing that registration on to the inspection. I would say that it is a minimal effort to make work more efficient, so I do not really understand the resistance of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u58	At present, a works council, a trade union or an employee can call the doorbell at the inspection. I think it is important to emphasise those access routes. Then the inspection can act, and so does the inspection. In fact, if a works council or a trade union is notified, that is mandatory. I think that would outweigh an additional administrative obligation to report dangerous substances. In view of the instruments that we already have, but which we cannot yet use sufficiently, I do not think that this is appropriate. This is without prejudice to the fact that I want to work very hard to maintain everything we already have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u59	Then we move on to the next block: the points about the company doctors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u60	Yeah, there were two questions about that. I have just mentioned it briefly in an interruption. Mr Raemakers asked about it. He said that company doctors do not have access to that risk inventory and assessment and therefore cannot use it. Can't you just include it in the law, in the basic contract, that it's mandatory for the company doctor to see it? I also saw in the report the illustration of the company doctor who said: I asked for it and I didn't get it. So I think it is very good to point out here that if a company doctor asks for this, we need to have access to it. It's up to the employer. It has the primary responsibility, together with the works council, to ensure a coherent occupational policy cycle, but the company doctor who asks for it should also be able to get it. Mr Raemakers had another question. Of course, we have a lot of discussions about privacy. Privacy is very important, but employees often switch employers nowadays. They work in many places with different substances and then that knowledge is not transferred. How can we do that? If an employee so wishes, he can request his file and take it with him and also give it to the next company doctor. If the employee asks for his own file, he will be transferred.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u61	That was the block about the company doctors. Mr Raemakers has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u62	Of course, I'm very happy that the Secretary of State says that if the company doctor asks, he should just be able to get that RI&E. We're working on that basic contract right now. Can this not be included as a kind of general condition or as a rule in that basic contract? Then you can just stick to it and say: here is the basic contract and you have to keep to it. Isn't that a simple solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u63	I would like to see what exactly is and is not in the basic contract and then come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u64	Fine. The Secretary of State will return to this question in the second term. Then we need the fourth block, the position of the employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u65	Yes, the position of the employees. Mrs Voortman has asked a number of questions about this. Indeed, she asked about my view of the role of employees and what they can do. We've talked a lot about the employer. In the campaign launched on the prevention of occupational diseases, I focus on raising awareness, both among employers and employees. An important part of this is the online test for employees that has been launched: hoesafewerkjij.nl. There you can see what dangerous substances mean to you, what you're dealing with. This increases your awareness of the risks of working with substances. That's howsafe work you.nl. Employees have been entitled to a consultation with a company doctor since the amendment of the Arbowet, even if they do not yet have any complaints. There is therefore more attention to the preventive side. It was just a moment ago: they are entitled to access and a copy of their health record and also of the exposure register. In addition, the individual worker can also influence working conditions through participation. The works council or the staff representation shall have the right to consent to the risk inventory and evaluation and the associated plan of approach and shall have the right to consent to the selection of an arbor service provider and the arrangements made with that party. In the information activities on the recent amendment of the Arbo Act, I also pay attention to the rights and obligations of workers. I think it is important that they are aware of the opportunities they have to exert influence. I'm sure there's still a lot of ground to cover. Cheers, Mrs. Voortman. Three times, that's tomorrow's nice weather! I'll get to the next block. This was the block about the employee position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u66	Mr De Jong would like to know something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u67	Well, there's something about saying it. We just had a brief debate on this, the Secretary of State and myself. The inspection has several tasks, for example in relation to the minimum wage, indeed, and all kinds of other matters, but these are often matters where workers themselves know where their rights lie. They also know, by public opinion or whatever, whether or not something is right. As the Secretary of State himself pointed out, dangerous substances are an assassin, something you may not find out until years later. That is why I would like to argue in favour, precisely because workers themselves know a lot more about these other issues, that the Secretary of State is not only doing a lot about information, but that she also gives this priority and says: this has to be number one. So I'm gonna try one more time. Can the Secretary of State say, on the basis of what employees already know and don't know, 'Okay, I'm making it priority number one'?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u68	The campaign we launched is rightly a public campaign for that reason, so that everyone, when they are in the car or watching television, thinks of "hey, how safe work you" and then can watch. The extra effort on this campaign has also been made by the Chamber. When it comes to prioritising, the Chamber has said that it would like an integral consideration. We'll make it in the fall. I think this is a very important part. When it comes to working honestly, we also have debates in the Chamber. We also have debates in the Chamber on psychosocial labour taxation. I think that working well, working safely is a top priority, but I also promised the Chamber that we could make an overall assessment of this in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u69	Mr De Jong, you will have another opportunity, but it is a bit of a repetition of your previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u70	Yeah, but this is 3,000 deaths. I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u71	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u72	And these other things, of which we can all see that they are super important, all true, but these are human lives. Of course it is good to let people know where their rights lie, to conduct campaigns. I am fine with it, but this is about preventing more victims by ignorance, by laxity in companies, you name it. That's why I'm not saying that you shouldn't have those other things picked up by the inspection, but I'm asking the Secretary of State not to wait until autumn and now to say, "Dear friends of the inspection, I know you're very busy, but make sure this is priority number one." Precisely because all these other issues are generally not about people's lives. And in this case, that's what it's about. That's why I'm trying again, Mr. Chairman. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u73	I share the urgency. It's just so important. At the same time, the Chamber asked me for an integral consideration. That is also what I am preparing for the autumn decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u74	The last block?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u75	Yes. I have already mentioned a number of things in the various debates on the interruption. I'll try to avoid doubles, try to get them out. Mr Heerma asked me what role the Inspection SZW can take to tackle the safety culture as well. I think this is a key question, because no matter how important everything is, it is ultimately about people implementing this policy. Then it's about the intrinsic motivation.... you want to do it... about the culture in an organization. Previously, he and Mr Van Haga tabled a motion not only to have the inspection fined, but also to see if the inspection could extend that safety day that was organized at a company following that terrible industrial accident. What's the status? There are now pilots in the programme Arbo Reactive focused on accidents at work but also on psychosocial workload. So, business is running. As soon as that is clarified, I would like to return to your Chamber. Mr Van Kent asked me if I would be prepared to come up with a separate proposal on enforcement with regard to risk inventory and evaluation. He asked me to do that separately from the individual exposure register and the health file. The way in which we have shaped enforcement is laid down in multiannual plans of the Inspection SZW. The Inspection SZW is currently working on the multiannual plan for 2019, but a multi-annual inspection 2019-2022 is also being prepared. This multiannual plan will be completed after the summer and will therefore be available for a debate in the Chamber. The government agreement on the means to strengthen the enforcement chain indicated that it should be fair, safe and healthy work, that it should also look at companies with a very high risk and that a data-driven analysis should also be carried out. The budget and the annual plan for 2018 also include the corresponding indicators for this year. You can find the details in the upcoming annual plan and multiannual plan. So there will be no separate proposal for enforcement, but in the third quarter, after the summer, the multiannual plan for inspection will come. Mr Van Kent has just asked in an interrupting debate whether the capacity of the inspection can be scaled up. Mr Van Haga also asked for this. We have used the recruitment pathways for several function groups, partly because we have been encouraged to do so quickly in previous debates. The first new employees are now in training. In the accompanying letter we sent to the annual plan, the rule of thumb for enlargement will apply in the coming years that expenditure on capacity in year X should lead to operational deployment in the following year. I have just indicated that the labour market is tight, but fortunately we have not had a great deal of trouble filling in the vacancies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u76	I'm looking at the room. There are no questions at this point. Then we came to the end of the first term on the part of the cabinet and we can move on to the second term on the part of the Chamber, with Mr Van Kent speaking first on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have the impression that many Members of Parliament and many parties are in general in agreement. The Secretary of State indicates that she also feels the urge to act, but she has not yet been able to show this convincingly as far as I am concerned. Nor has she been able to give it to the Chamber, not even in the letter we received, at what point, except when the letters and papers appear. Deeds are still a little behind. As far as fines are concerned, the SP Group is far from convinced. I took a look: for unnecessary honking in traffic you get €370 fine and for not reporting exposure to large amounts of quartz dust you get a fine of €300 if you are a small employer. I think that is totally out of balance. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether fines can be placed in a higher category within the current system and, if possible, to submit a proposal to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-140]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u78	Good. I have just heard the Secretary of State say that in the plans we get in the third quarter, the measures are included in respect of compliance with the risk inventory and all that goes with it. I would like to put to the House the following statement, since we are all in the Chamber that this should be a very important part of it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to send a proposal to the Chamber within the existing policy cycle of the Inspection SZW in order to fulfil the obligations arising from the Arbowet including having a risk inventory & evaluation (RI&E), an individual exposure register and work-related health records,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-141]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u79	My final motion, Mr President, very quickly, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u80	You've run out of time, but one motion, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would of course like to thank the Secretary of State for her comprehensive reply. Mr Van Kent mentioned it earlier: everyone thinks this subject is extremely important. That's right. We are talking about people's lives, and we should not take this lightly. Safety must at all times be the top priority in the workplace and thus also in the inspection SZW. And, of course, employers simply have to comply with the law. Lex dura, sed lex. The law is harsh, but it's the law. I therefore propose the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas choices should be made with regard to the use of money and resources;]] [[calls on the government to pay particular attention to these choices in the implementation of the SZW Safety Inspection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-143]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u82	That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u83	Thank you for your contribution. I call Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u84	Thank you, Mr President. I think that we have had a good debate and that everyone also understands the need to do something about it. I have that idea, which has just been raised in an interruption, in a motion for a resolution. I am also very curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State. If it is happening at the moment, I am also in any case prepared to withdraw or amend that motion. But here's what I'm gonna do. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that occupational doctors do not always gain insight into the risk inventory and evaluation (RI&E) of the holding in which they carry out their work, and that this is particularly worrying with regard to dangerous and carcinogenic substances;]] [[Whereas, in this way, occupational doctors cannot provide comprehensive advice on prevention and insufficiently advise the company on the relationship between the possible risks on the workplace and the work-related complaints they encounter;]] [[Whereas strengthening the position of the company doctor when requesting the Rl&E may also lead to greater attention being paid to the preparation of a Rl&E;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the establishment of the right of access to the R & E of the company doctor in the basic contract, for example as a standard general condition, could lead to more exchange of the R & E and possibly promote the preparation of a R & E,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Raemakers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-144]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u85	Thank you, Mr President. I just heard Mr. Raemakers' motion. I think it is quite right: how do we ensure that the right of access is properly regulated? The same applies to the role of the company doctor, who, in my view, was also mentioned in the motion. I would have liked to ask that as a question. I would have liked to ask how we can ensure that these company doctors are really used in a good way. Now only one third of works councils do so. I think it would be fine to ask a ruling on that as a Chamber. Another point concerns the obligation for companies to report information on carcinogenic substances at the inspection. The Secretary of State rightly stated that we can only use the capabilities we have now in a certain way. That is true, of course, but I think that the moment you create that reporting obligation, the capacity can be more focused. That is much more sensible, because it can save you in the end. That is why I have signed Mr Van Kent's motion and, incidentally, two other motions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u86	Thank you for your contribution. I still find it a special moment that we had a maiden speech in this debate today and also Mrs Voortman's last speech in this House's plenary. Your official farewell will follow, but I think we can tell you that we're going to miss you very much. At the end of the second term of office, Mr De Jong of the PVV Group will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u87	Mr President, thank you very much. I am, of course, pleased that the Secretary of State says that it is a priority for her to ensure that workers will not experience the serious consequences of working with carcinogenic substances in the future, as is currently the case. Nevertheless, I have to say that I am very sorry that the Secretary of State, when it comes to questions from the Chamber, in many cases chooses either-or instead of and-and. As far as we are concerned, it cannot happen quickly enough that the Secretary of State makes this a top priority in policy too. However, we are waiting at least for the matters raised by the Secretary of State on this subject. In the autumn, she will come forward with her plan of action, and she will also indicate how she will organise the funds. If it is necessary to have another debate at that time, then we will not fail to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u88	Thank you very much for your contribution. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. Five motions have been tabled, so we'll suspend for five minutes, so the Secretary of State can read them and give them an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u89	I give the floor to the secretary for the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Members of Parliament for their input. I'd like to make the motions for a ruling. The motion in part No. Mr Van Kent and Mrs Voortman asked to examine whether fines could be placed in a higher category within the current system. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that I may include the aspect of "height of the fine" in a reconnaissance I am conducting following the Heerma motion on the improvement plan, I shall leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u91	I'll take a look at the proposers. Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u92	Let's do it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u93	The motion in part No. 140 has "judge chamber." Second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u94	In the motion in part No. 141 by Mr Van Kent and Mrs Voortman, within the existing policy cycle of the inspection, are invited to submit a proposal to the Chamber in order to fulfil the obligations arising from the Arbo Act. I would like to respond to that as follows. The manner in which the enforcement of the obligations under the Arbo Act is carried out shall be laid down in the multiannual plans of the Inspection SZW. We were just talking about that. I also indicated that the inspection is currently working on the annual plan for 2019 and that we also see some effects of the inspection. In that context, I consider the motion to support policy. I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u95	The motion in part No. 141 also has "judgement chamber." Third motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u96	The motion in part No. Mr Van Kent and Mrs Voortman called for companies to report information on quantities of carcinogenic substances to the SZW inspection. We've talked a lot about that. We share the same objective, but I do not believe that imposing such an obligation will make a substantial contribution to healthy and safe working. I would like to say that it concerns the existing obligation, for example, to replace carcinogenic substances where possible and to take appropriate measures. A reporting obligation as referred to in the motion will create a considerable additional administrative burden for companies, but also for the inspection. This capacity cannot then be used for actual inspections. This is not, as far as I am concerned, the most important argument: it is also a new national headline in the regulation. But above all, the fact that it is at the expense of inspection capacity means that I reject this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u97	The motion in part No. 142 is not recommended. Fourth motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u98	The motion in part No. Mr Van Haga's 143 requests that particular attention be paid to the issue of safety when considering choices in the deployment of the SZW inspection. We have also had a number of exchanges of views on this subject today. In the autumn I will come up with the allocation of additional resources. These should be divided into "fair work," "safe and healthy work," "Brzo" and "data-driven work." We have seen today that security is a very important priority, which I am sure to pay attention to. But the overall balance will be made in the autumn, also here in the Chamber. From that point of view, since it says here that'safety must be given special attention', I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u99	The motion in part No. 143 has "judge chamber." Finally, the fifth motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u100	To the motion in part No. 144 preceded a question from D66. I would first like to answer that, to see whether Mr Raemakers is maintaining his motion or whether the answer is sufficient. Last year there was a change to the Working Conditions Act, which requires employers to have at least a basic contract with an occupational health service or company doctor. That basic contract shall include at least five tasks requiring the assistance of an employer. These five tasks include the workplace visit, the implementation of the RI&E, the review of the RI&E and the manner of cooperation with professionals. It should also be noted that the company doctor can act according to the professional standards, including the reporting of occupational diseases, the visiting of the workplace, the regular provision of preventive advice to the employer and the contact with participation. This measure should also support the company doctor to operate independently. In addition, I can indicate that as of 1 July 2018, the transitional regime is over and everyone has to comply with these aspects, which are included in the basic contract. I am certainly also prepared to discuss with the organisations whether they have included it in their model contract, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u101	Let me ask you a question so I can get this straight. Suppose the company doctor of a particular company would like to see the RI&E, on which the company says: you don't get it. If I listen carefully to the Secretary of State, it is currently in breach of the basic contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u102	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u103	I think it is very good that this has just been confirmed in the plenary. Can the Secretary of State undertake to explain to the companies how this works? Because I think this needs to be highlighted, because it doesn't happen very often. If the Secretary of State can promise that she would like to explain this rule very well in communication to companies, I can withdraw my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u104	Very formally, the transition year runs until 1 July 2018. In that context, I gave my answer from just now. I am certainly also willing to monitor what comes out of this in the contacts with the organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u105	Mr President, I am very pleased about that. Then I withdraw my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u106	Since the Raemakers motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u107	No, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Chamber for the debate. I look forward to the follow-up, in which we are actually going to deliver further butter to the fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u108	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the debate on the registration by companies of workers' exposure to carcinogenic substances. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber and for answering the questions. I thank Members for their input and the people in the public gallery for their interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-6.u109	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 7.15 p.m. The next debate, on the report "Pre-investment and participation in higher education" of the General Court, may begin a little earlier. But if that is the case, members will receive a revised schedule.
