ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on access to society for disabled people. I would like to welcome the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and give Mrs Kuik the floor on behalf of the CDA as the first speaker. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Every day people are excluded in the Netherlands. One in eight Dutch people has a long-term limitation. These are physical, visual, auditory, intellectual and psychological constraints. Too often it is not considered that people with disabilities need adjustments to be able to participate. There are large thresholds for inclusion in all areas of life. Think about the accessibility of public space and public buildings or the situation that people with a help dog are sometimes refused in taxis, cinemas and restaurants. While many of us would have difficulty choosing where to eat or drink again, the choice for people with disabilities is often minimal, because there is no adapted toilet available. In addition to this practical accessibility, there are also thresholds for independent living and participation, such as being able to take up training and having a job. In the field of work and education, the College of Human Rights also identifies problems. We need to know ourselves from the target group what these bottlenecks are and how we can remedy them. Does the Minister share the view that this is a crucial condition? The UN Convention therefore runs through virtually every policy area. Does the Minister agree with me that, for this reason, every minister should also draw up clear indicators in the context of the UN Convention in order to check whether policy is working and that the minister remains responsible when the policy needs to be adjusted? For example, we sometimes talk about public transport policy here, but the Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State really is best placed to act on it. How does the Minister see his own role in this, as a point of contact in the implementation of the UN Convention? Mr. Chairman. There's an implementation plan from the former Secretary of State. The implementation plan describes nice steps, but I do not see any clear ambition where we want to stand in time. Everyone knows that this is not settled overnight, but does the Minister agree with the CDA that implementation should not be voluntary and needs clear objectives? Does this minister come up with ambition and targets, so that participation for people with disabilities becomes easier? It begins with a clear explanation of what the government itself wants to achieve. Soon the minister will be able to award a prize to the most accessible municipality in the Netherlands. It's nice to see how a number of municipalities go for it, but how exciting is that game? In March, the municipal elections will be held. Does the Minister also see that this is a good benchmark for local government to indicate his ambition under the UN Convention? Mr. Chairman. Of course inclusion is not the responsibility of the government alone; it is a task of all of us. I'm really annoyed by cycling on blind-guided paths, driving drivers and display boards that make access more difficult. Nevertheless, despite what it may seem, I hope that we are not such an acorn, individualistic society, but that people do want to take account of each other. It's gotta be more in the head. Professionals also need to be involved, for example with builders and architects. The starting point must be: design for all. What's it gonna take for that wake-up call? Awareness. We should look up from our phones to our surroundings and also in our busy, hasty life give space to and take account of another, another who must have ten times as much perseverance and patience to participate. Does the Minister also see a leading role in this learning process of all of us in society? As a society, we shouldn't shut people out, we should lock them in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u3	I have a question about the role of municipalities. You rightly pointed out that there is an important role there. A lot of beautiful things are happening there too. At the same time, you're asking the Minister to send tighter on those municipalities. In this context, how should I see the obligation that municipalities already have as a result of the adoption of the 'Van der Staaij/Bergkamp' amendment, which has led to the fact that the Wmo, the Youth Act and the Participation Act stipulate that municipalities must work on the implementation of this Convention? Then what more do you want from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u4	That's right. Thank you for this question. It is of course important that we, as a government, work together, from high to low. The Minister also has a leading role in this. He has the role to create that involvement. As far as we are concerned, the municipal elections are a good benchmark. Wouldn't it be nice if the Minister, through the VNG, encouraged municipalities to include in a coalition agreement what they are going to do with the implementation of the UN Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u5	It seems to me to be an excellent task for political parties to decide what they want to include in a coalition agreement. It is then up to the city council to check the college and assess whether those plans also comply with everything a municipality should do. So, after all, what is the Minister going to do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u6	What can the Minister do about this? He can stimulate, he can draw attention to the municipalities to take this with him. I have a certain ambition, I am indeed with a political party and I hope that all other parties will also have the ambition to bring the implementation of the UN Convention to a higher level and to ensure that great steps are taken at local level, wherever people notice it directly. And how they do that, that's up to the municipalities themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mrs Kuik talks about local elections as a benchmark. The municipal elections are, of course, a very important moment for everyone to vote, including for people with a slightly intellectual disability. Some of these people find it hard to do that on their own in the voting booth. Last year, during the campaign with all parties, we held a major debate in the State Passage. Mrs Van Toorenburg was present on behalf of your party. All the people said at that time: we need to make it possible for these people to vote in the voting booth. Are you still behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u8	I believe that there was a motion a while ago and I can remember that we did not vote for it. But, of course, I'd like to see what you're coming with. I think we should also look very closely to avoid any possibility of influence. So I think that is a point that we should look closely at. We need to look at how we should do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u9	That was also the great thing about that national electoral day for people with a slightly intellectual disability. That was a while after that motion that was dealt with here in the Chamber. And all ten parties who were present at the time said: no, we have come to the understanding that it is important to support these people too. The same goes for the CDA. I therefore hope that Mrs Kuik will continue this line and also allow these people to participate fully, even when it comes to elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u10	I await your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u11	I am pleased that colleagues refer to two amendments tabled by D66 together with the SGP. We have, of course, asked before for policy to be anchored in the Wmo and we have also tabled an amendment to support people with mental illness or mental impairment. Unfortunately, these amendments did not make it. I have a question about the story of the CDA. I must say that it is a glowing argument, but I can also remember the debate on the UN Convention. Then it is a question of concreteisation and operationalisation. There were two camps here at the time. I remember Mr Otwin van Dijk, with the Christian Union and D66. The VVD and the CDA were on the other side. There was actually a lack of clarity about the question: how concrete should you make it? I remember the CDA being on the other side, saying it doesn't have to be too concrete. Now I hear the CDA say with a different tone: it needs to be clearer, it needs to be more concrete. So I ask: what is the consistency of the story of the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u12	I think that this debate went a little bit differently from what Mrs Bergkamp is getting back. The CDA has said that this change does not happen overnight. You cannot tell entrepreneurs with a restaurant at once: there must be a disabled toilet in it. But we have to see how we take those steps. The government also has a responsibility to take concrete steps. That is why I am asking you to give it an impetus right now that municipal councils are looking at the policy again. That is also the benchmark for the municipal elections. I hope you will support me in this. I have the ambition to make this society more inclusive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u13	That's strange, because the CDA didn't really want to further concreteize it nationwide. I remember that Mr Van der Staaij came up with a compromise on a general measure of governance. But now, in fact, the CDA says that these municipalities must be concrete. I think that's weird. The opportunity we've had before as House of Representatives is kind of shifted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u14	I hear Mrs Bergkamp at least sounds positive about concreteising. The difference is I don't tell the municipalities how to do it. I say: this is a good benchmark, a great opportunity to say: boys, pay attention to that and fill that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u15	Like Mrs Kuik, I am annoyed to death by taxi drivers who refuse people with disabilities with a help dog. It's just gonna go on. They don't care about the law, don't care what the Chamber wants. My question to Mrs Kuik is: how does she see the sanctions in front of her when drivers leave people with a help dog?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u16	I think that's a good point. I also think that we should talk about this, because it is not allowed and it is not right. It's gotta be between those cab drivers' ears, too. It must be in the minds of all of us that we have to take people into account. So I would also like to look at the reports which state the state of play and how we can act on this point. But it is a cultural change in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u17	That is an easy answer, but this is indeed a cultural change, because those taxi drivers are Muslim and those dogs find haram. The CDA is saying very loudly here: it is not allowed and it should not. But the CDA isn't talking about sanctions. Is the CDA, for example, prepared to support a proposal to take away the licence from taxi drivers who refuse a help dog?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u18	I think we should indeed look at how we can ensure that it gets between the ears. I'd like to take a look at the situation first. I want to see what happens at that point. At some point, however, we must take steps to ensure that it is done. People with disabilities who are refused must also be able to indicate: say, I am not allowed in the taxi. If that happens, there must be consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u19	Yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u20	I would like to see the state of play and how this is now being dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u21	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "The States Parties undertake to ensure and promote that all persons with disabilities can fully exercise all human rights and fundamental freedoms without discrimination on the grounds of their disability." That is quite a mouthful, but it is an important phrase from the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. That phrase actually says everything. No human being is equal, but we are all equal. Whether you have a limitation or not, everyone must be able to participate fully in our country. The Manifesto of We Rise! Shows that for a lot of people this is not yet the case. The initiator speaks about social inequality, an unequal treatment for people who are already unlucky enough to have a disability. Look, for example, at its own risk. That is a cost for virtually all people with disabilities. It is an amount of €385 per year, of which she and chronically ill already know on 1 January that it is going well. Brake money is often called its own risk, a way to make people aware of the cost of care. But you'll only hear that when you're 20 years old and have a disability. Then you already know that until you die you will have to pay this risk your whole life. And then you're not talking about hundreds or thousands of euros anymore, but you're talking about tens of thousands of euros. And then we are not even talking about all the other costs that people with disabilities have to incur and against which there is no compensation. It is important for people with disabilities to have the means to lead their lives autonomously and independently. And that is also the starting point of the UN Convention. And yet, unfortunately, it is far from always happening in practice. We now know the example of the municipality of Lingewaard, where the municipality pressured an examiner not to have to provide an adapted countertop. And that, while such adjustments allow for a self-reliant life and prevent new health problems. Financial considerations by the municipality are above the rights of people with disabilities. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he feels about that. Does he agree with the SP that this is unacceptable? We often hear fine words about the importance of the UN Convention, but the policy is still too often at odds with that idea. I mentioned the risk, but also look at the problems experienced by people in public transport, of trains that are not accessible and platforms where people cannot get off in wheelchairs. I heard about a journey in The Hague where, if you're in a wheelchair, you just have to travel a stop and see that you're coming back to the destination. That's not really like this anymore, is it? And when you see that, you also realize what the initiators of We mean by social inequality: if you live with a disability, you literally have fewer options and you get fewer choices than people without disabilities. Mr. Chairman. I understand that this Minister is not going to promise today that all platforms and routes will be accessible to people in wheelchairs tomorrow. However, I would ask him to take concrete steps to do this as quickly as possible. This also applies to the other proposals to allow people with disabilities to participate fully in our society, such as the need for people with visual disabilities to have audio descriptors at the NPO so that they can follow television properly. Can the Minister respond to that request? This is also true, for example, of something which I find belittled and very frustrating for the people who touch it, namely the need to repeat it over and over again in the bodies and control bodies that you still have the limitation that you have for 5, 10, 20, 35 and sometimes 50 years. That must hurt if you have to emphasize and repeat that every time you apply for a tool or something else. Does the Minister agree with the SP that this should stop? So can he indicate how he's going to put an end to this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u23	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u24	Thank you, Mr President. For once, make the Netherlands accessible to disabled people. A justified appeal from various organisations that we also support wholeheartedly as D66. Unfortunately, our society is not yet sufficiently accessible. Think of mobility, public space, information, in short, time to make the Netherlands more accessible. And Mrs. Agema did trigger me. In practice, I see that, if they run against it, they have to go to the Human Rights College, which is a difficult step for many people. I would very much like to ask the Minister how to deal with people who run into cases. How can we ensure that that step, if they run into a threshold somewhere, is also accessible? Mr. Chairman. Mobility is, of course, more than bringing people from A to B. The point is, you can go to work, you can go to college. It is striking in itself that the College of Human Rights indicates that many disabled people experience bottlenecks in public transport. That's what worries me. I have asked written questions there before. The then State Secretary then referred to the Decision and the Public Transport Accessibility Scheme. If you look at that, there are all kinds of targets. It's very difficult to get an insight, at least I haven't found that in the way things stand. Is the Minister prepared, together with his colleague, the Secretary of State for IenW, to look at these targets in terms of public transport and to look together with the local authorities at the situation? Mr. Chairman. I have just indicated in an interruption that it is important for D66 that anyone who wants to vote can vote. We have previously asked for support for people with intellectual disabilities and with mental impairment. Mine and Mr. Van der Staaij's amendment didn't make it back then. But new ministers, new opportunities. Is the Minister prepared to take a very good look at whether we can do this properly with each other? Mr. Chairman. Accessibility is sometimes also in the daily business. People often encounter difficulties in public spaces, for example when it comes to the use of toilets. Some disabilities or chronic diseases are less visible. These people are often told no and, for example, may not use the toilet during shopping. People decide, therefore, that I have talked to several people about this, so as not to go outside anymore. It can't be the intention of us as a society, that we interact with each other in this way. The medical toilet pass is a means to ensure that people get that access, but also to make sure that this is also known. Is the Minister prepared to discuss with VNO-NCW and SMEs how this initiative can become more widely known, but also to ensure that our stores are more welcoming when it comes to this issue? I have asked you before, and I will stick to the subject of toilets for a while, if there can be more public toilets. The previous Secretary of State has promised to include this in the implementation plan, but unfortunately I have not been able to find it. Mr. Chairman. Then something about the national government. It has an important role, of course, and it is also seen by the UN as a formal treaty holder. We just talked about it. Of course, the municipalities play a very important role in this. I am very curious to see how we can ensure that the frontrunners are examples for those who are left behind and we are moving in the right direction with each other to make the Netherlands more accessible. The coalition agreement agrees with that. How's that going? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. When it comes to the digitisation of information, it was not so long ago that we were informed that in the healthcare sector the sites and the digital possibilities are not accessible. How does the minister get on with the Accessibility report? Is he willing to look at this with experience experts, such as Stichting Dedicon and Stichting Hoormij, and see how we can make these sites more accessible? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u25	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today I saw the beautiful message that in the province of Noord-Holland for the first time a provincial official, Frouke van Winsum, took the oath of office in the Dutch sign language. For Frouke this language is the native language. It is therefore nice that the province of Noord-Holland has wanted to make this possible. I believe it is at the heart of what we intend to do with the implementation of the UN Convention on Handicap. I think that the College of Human Rights has written it down very nicely: it is not the handicap that causes the accessibility problems, but the way in which society is organised. This requires adjustments from all of us. Mr. Chairman. One in eight people in the Netherlands has a limitation. For them, society is getting more and more complicated. A year and a half after the entry into force of the UN Convention on Handicap, it is important that our society is really included. It is much more than good care and accessibility. Being able to do it must be commonplace for everyone. There's still a lot of work to be done. The College concluded in December last year that the UN Disability Convention has not yet been sufficiently implemented. Most of the problems are with work, living, accessibility and education. Municipalities, as far as they have not yet done so, should now really start working on local inclusion agendas. In the coalition agreement, we have agreed that we will bring those who remain behind among the municipalities into contact with the forerunners. Does the minister have eyes on the stragglers yet? How will he, as a coordinating director, promote that every municipality actually has and will implement an integral plan for inclusion? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. If you're expecting a forerunner somewhere, it's in care. However, it appears that many websites of general practitioners, hospitals and other healthcare providers are poorly accessible to the 300,000 blind and partially sighted and the 1.3 million deaf and hearing impaired. And this while there is legislation that makes this mandatory and there are technical means available. If we want to promote e-health, people with visual or auditory limitations should also be able to arrange their care digitally. Does the Minister also wish to take up his active role here and appeal to healthcare providers on their responsibility? I'd like a commitment. Mr. Chairman. Last week we received a beautiful petition: almost 17,000 signatures for more audio description in the public service. Pilots have already started that, but they're in danger of disappearing again. My question to the Minister is whether he knows the petition and whether he wants to discuss it with his colleague from Media. Mr. Chairman. The construction sector has written an action plan containing voluntary agreements to make buildings, offices and homes more accessible. How is the cabinet going to ensure that something actually changes and that people with disabilities are involved from the design phase? Is the government setting a good example by making public buildings accessible to all? I heard that one of the municipalities that have been nominated for the title "Most Accessible Municipality" has a town hall that is only limited to accessible. Then something's still really going wrong. More and more educational institutions embrace the UN Convention and draw up a declaration of intent, but of course it must not be just fine intentions. Recently, I was touched by the story of Amy, a 22-year-old young girl with intellectual disabilities. She likes to study, just like her younger sister. There is that possibility, but then she must find an MBO institution to guide her in it. How are we going to ensure that signing the UN Convention also leads to equal educational rights for young people like Amy? Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with his colleague from OCW? Finally, Mr President. In the coalition agreement, we agreed that the accessibility of voting rooms for people with disabilities deserves attention. Steps are already being taken for people with visual impairment. However, the Human Rights College has also argued that people with intellectual disabilities should be allowed to bring someone into the voting booth as their voice support, but that is complicated. What are the government's plans to take a step in the right direction for this group? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u28	Mr. Chairman. In a country like the Netherlands, it should be possible for everyone, even for people with disabilities, to take a train or bus easily, to have access to suitable education, to vote in elections and also to understand beautiful movies if you are hearing impaired or deaf thanks to subtitles, to name just a few examples. Mr. Chairman. A number of colleagues have already mentioned it: one in eight people in the Netherlands has a limitation. That is a very large and also very diverse group of people, from people with a physical to people with intellectual disabilities, from light to heavy. What they have in common is that society makes it difficult for them to participate. GroenLinks has been committed to an inclusive society from the outset and has always been one of the main supporters of a rapid ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. Unfortunately, a report by the Human Rights College shows that putting the objectives of the UN Convention into practice is still too slow in all areas. What will the Minister do with the recommendations? How does he intend to accelerate implementation? VWS is the coordinating department. How does the Minister intend to use this coordinating role to remove the non-binding nature of all parties involved? We have the responsibility of each other, not just the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Let's be honest: with a little goodwill, we don't change society. We face quite a lot of challenges if we are to make our society more accessible to people with disabilities. This requires commitment and financial investment. Especially at this slow start-up stage of implementation, hard agreements must be made and there must be sufficient room for the parties involved to make the UN Convention more than just a fine paper promise. Mr. Chairman. The UN Convention also clearly states that when drawing up and implementing the Convention, people with disabilities must have a completely equal position in it. They can offer solutions, better than any other, in order to make our society accessible to them as well. That is why it is so very important for their voices to be heard properly in society. I ask the Minister: how can we guarantee the involvement of people with disabilities in decision-making on the many issues that concern them? Is he prepared to develop a vision of this as a coordinating director with stakeholders such as municipalities and civil society organisations? Finally. I would very much like to call on the Minister to pay particular attention in his plans to people with a slightly intellectual disability. It is the group of people who themselves are least quick to ask for help or support, because they often underestimate their own demand for help. This makes them even more vulnerable in this participatory society, because we assume a question of concern, whereas these people often do not ask that question. Does the Minister have enough visual on this group? How does he intend to fully integrate these people and, where necessary, support them in society? Of course, this also applies to public communication: how do we make it accessible to these people, so that they can really understand the letters they receive? Mr. Chairman. A very concrete step that we can now take to make our society more accessible to people with a slightly intellectual disability, is also enabling them to be accompanied in the polling booth. I told you, during the National Election Day for people with a slightly intellectual disability on 11 February last year, all ten political parties present indicated that they wanted to enable support in the polling booth for this group. This included Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA and spokesmen from all three other coalition parties, such as Ms Van Engelshoven at the time. I ask this Minister to take this up so that these people too can vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u29	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I now turn to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u30	Madam President. In recent years it has been very often about "when will the UN Convention on People with Disabilities finally be ratified, when will it finally enter into force?" There's a lot of energy in it. All kinds of departments have been thinking about this, like "if we write this in the law, what does that mean exactly, what are the consequences?" I am actually glad that this is behind us, that we are now done with the whole question of ratification and the question of the way in which sometimes the brakes were applied, 'because who knows what it all means'. And now we can just say: implementation, full power ahead! What can happen now to remove the remaining obstacles? At least what I have learned from all these conversations with people with disabilities in recent years is that it is not only getting better by itself. Often it is not only necessary to fight for insight into what needs to be better. It has also occurred in recent years that after a renovation there were suddenly thresholds for a shop that were not there before. So it can also go backwards. So it remains a matter of keeping an eye on what is still wrong and how it can be done better. That is what everyone ultimately wants: a society that is accessible in every way to people with disabilities, with disabilities. Mr. Chairman. I would like to hear from this Minister how he intends to proceed with this. How does he see this? As has already been said, we have a task in the debates here with the Minister when it comes to the direct responsibility of the government itself. But the government also has an exciting and stimulating role, including towards municipalities, which, according to the amendment I tabled together with Mrs Bergkamp and which has been given a majority in the Chamber, have a legal obligation to translate this into their plans. My question to the Minister is whether, as a Chamber, we can understand the way in which municipalities implement this. Of course, we don't need to hear exactly how they're doing it all. That's what these municipalities are about. But we do want to hear that it's happening, that it's being realized and arrested by the municipalities. Mr. Chairman. A few concrete issues still remain. Fortunately, access to public transport has improved a lot in recent years, but we still hear that there are bottlenecks. For wheelchair users, for example, it is very interesting to know whether a new sprinter comes along with a low entry or an older stop train with a small staircase. These are very practical important things. Are these glasses also used to look at the service? It would be nice if this were the case and if the website of the NS by train journey not only indicated which train set is used, but also what kind of train it is, just for the people with disabilities. Would the Minister like to discuss with the NS how this communication can be improved? Mr. Chairman. Then there is a point about education. In dealing with the UN Disability Convention, the government has taken the view that the Netherlands complies with the standards of the Convention with appropriate education. All children should be given as appropriate a place in education as possible, if possible in regular education and if necessary in special education. The report of the College of Human Rights suggests that the government should still work towards inclusive education for all pupils at the same school. But there is still room for special education. What's the deal with that, exactly? As far as public service broadcasting is concerned, I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber's questions, including the audio thesis on which a petition was recently submitted to the Chamber. Finally, a word about accessible buildings. However, a quarter of the people indicate that they have a problem with the accessibility of public spaces and buildings. How can the Minister ensure that in practice there is even more progress in this area? It is not just a question of new construction, but also of existing situations. We must not forget to look at ourselves, and that is what I am saying. It will probably be discussed in the renovation process, but I can see for myself, close to our own group, that there is suddenly a tricky staircase for wheelchair users and that you have to make a huge detour in order to be accessible in it. So let us not only improve the world outside us, but also address the bottlenecks in our own home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u31	I couldn't agree more, Mr. Van der Staaij. Thank you. I will pass this comment on to the Construction Guidance Committee, which is concerned with the renovation. Thank you. I call Mrs Hermans. She speaks on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Accessibility can make a difference for a person with disabilities in order to be able to participate as fully as possible in our society. She makes sure that you can just go to a supermarket or a museum, that you can just take the train or the bus and that you can just go to school or work. Just like we all do. Unfortunately, this is not self-evident for everyone. People with disabilities, physically and/or intellectually sometimes even experience literally thresholds. Unfortunately, we cannot remove some of those thresholds; they are the sad consequence of one's limitation. Sometimes it just doesn't work to make the old monumental church tower where there is only that narrow spiral staircase accessible to everyone. Actually, I think everyone understands that. But fortunately, there's a lot we can do. And I'm just talking about the thresholds that people experience in everyday things. There's another world to win. Because a bus driver who drives on, the assistance of the NS who is on the wrong platform or is not present at all, the government that does not deliver on a job appointment, that simply cannot! That's what we've agreed on, and we've agreed on a deal. Mr. Chairman. The removal of thresholds must also, and perhaps most importantly, be done locally. Fortunately, a lot of good things happen locally. For example, in Amsterdam, thanks to Client Interest Amsterdam, a map has been created on which you can quickly see which theatres are easily accessible and where you can eat a bite in the neighborhood. The Hague has an app for this, I think. Municipalities have hotlines where you can indicate that the pavement in a particular area is really not wheelchair-friendly. That's what the city's gonna go for. You can see at local theatre festivals that there are performances with audio description and sign language. This is only a selection of actions and activities undertaken by municipalities. These are actions that fit and match local needs and needs. And yes, we too hear stories that things are not going well everywhere and that accessibility is not just a subject of debate, but is actually being put into practice. We would like everything to be settled and in order tomorrow, but we have to be honest and realistic about that: some adjustments and measures just need some time. And yes, sometimes the awareness really needs a push, for example by exchanging good examples, such as bringing frontrunners into contact with those who remain behind. Does the Minister share this analysis? According to the implementation plan, it is up to the VNG to make a lead and support programme. Can the Minister state what is going on with this and explain exactly what these programmes are about? Finally, Mr President. We have a treaty, an approval law, an implementing law, an implementing act, an implementation plan and action plans. That's more than enough paper. It is now time for action, for action, for compliance with our joint commitments. Let us not lose sight of the good examples, but see them as inspiration. Then we're really going to take steps in removing barriers to everyday things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mrs Hermans is talking about thresholds. Now there is also a very important financial threshold that people with disabilities have every year, namely their own risk. Does she think it is right that people with disabilities, which they cannot do anything about and who they will have for many years, should be punished with the financial threshold of their own risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u34	This is a completely different debate, but I will give you an answer. We are talking about thresholds that you experience in everyday life, for example when you go to work, go to the supermarket or just want a day out with friends or family. I think it is of the utmost importance that we look at each other. It is a joint responsibility to remove these thresholds as much as possible. In addition, I realise that if you have a disability or if you are chronically ill, there can also be a financial threshold, partly because you have higher costs in your own contributions and the risk of your own being involved. But this debate is not the place to discuss whether we should reduce, raise or eliminate our own risk. Nor do I believe that this is due to the responsibility we have to remove the thresholds in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u35	I think the people involved are very different about that. The initiators of the beautiful manifesto of We Stand Up! It is precisely as a discriminatory measure that we call our own risk. That's what they're talking about. This is a form of social inequality because one's own risk is actually a fine, a punishment for a restriction or a chronic illness, and of course there's nothing you can do about it. So that has everything to do with today's subject. In fact, I dare say that its own risk runs counter to the UN Convention as we are trying to implement it here. I wonder whether Mrs Hermans agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u36	If you are chronically ill or have a disability, there are financial costs. They can set a threshold. I understand that, but this cabinet also realizes that. That is also why we are taking measures in many ways and areas to address the accumulation of costs and of our own contributions. But again, I really do not think it is right for the debate here this afternoon to draw it all the way to a financial debate, when it is about everyday barriers and thresholds that people encounter, where we all, including us here, have a responsibility to find a solution. I think it is wrong to bring that all the way back to a financial discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u37	I do not think Mr Hijink is doing that, but I will leave that to him. Mrs Hermans makes a glowing speech for an accessible society. That's good. I recognize myself in that. That's very important. One of the ways in which we can make society more accessible is to make elections more accessible, to also support people with a slightly intellectual disability so that they can vote themselves. They want to be taken seriously, but they also need help and support. They asked for this last February. Your colleague Sjoerd Potters was present at that debate and pointed out that this is very important and that the VVD also considers it very important that we allow support for people with a slightly intellectual disability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u38	You have also explained this in detail in your contribution. Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u39	That is why I shall now come back to it and ask Mrs Hermans if she shares that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u40	A lot is possible in the support and guidance to the voting booth. In the voting booth we made very clear and strict agreements about who and how you can be supported. That is very important for me and the VVD, because we want to prevent you from being affected in the voting booth in every way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u41	So that was the beauty of the meeting: all the parties said it was not enough. They recognise that people with a slight intellectual disability also need support in the voting booth and with that support can very well cast their votes. The VVD also agreed to this in that debate. I would therefore ask Mrs Hermans once again whether she differs from that position which was easily expressed during the election campaign. Or does the VVD really mean this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u42	When we talk about an accessible society, we are talking about an accessible society. This means, first of all, that if you have a limitation, you can enter the polling room or polling station at all. It may also be about support if you actually need help in casting your vote. This applies, for example, to people with visual impairment. People with intellectual disabilities also have the right to vote. The question is whether you allow support in the voting booth and what is the risk of influence. That's the point I'm making here. You asked questions about that to the Minister. I can't wait to see how he's gonna react to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u43	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Dijksma, on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u44	Mr. Chairman. Yes, it finally happened in 2016: ratifying the UN Convention for people with disabilities. Colleagues have already mentioned here that this has certainly not happened on its own. I also feel, at least from my group, a certain gratitude to a predecessor of mine in this area, Mr Otwin van Dijk, who, together with a number of colleagues who are also here today, has drawn a great deal of attention to achieving this in a good way. With Mr Van der Staaij, I would like to say that we have fortunately left that debate behind us, but we are far from there. This can be seen in all kinds of places in our society where buildings and transport, but sometimes also websites, are difficult to access for people with disabilities. Is it just trouble and torment? Definitely not. I believe that many things have been done in recent years as well that we can be proud of. One of the things I was very proud of was that at the end of October last year the news came that all Dutch stations are now finally accessible to people who are partially sighted or blind. That wasn't taken care of, either, but we're not there yet. We see the examples. I put a call on my Facebook page yesterday..... because we also need to do modern things today in order to come up with examples that are running into them. Some of them have been discussed here today, for example websites, which I believe could be made relatively easy to access but which are still not accessible. Anne Slingerland writes about that. She says: look not only at physical accessibility but also at the accessibility of information, for example from the government. Michel Kok says that it is not just about compliance, but also about enforcement. We have just received the example of taxi drivers from Mrs Agema, but in municipalities, for example, you can also see parking spaces that are actually available to people with disabilities but are taken by people who are not entitled to them at all. Michel Kok asks if we will actually sanction enough. Aren't we enough to really discourage that? Noëlle Arts writes: should we not pay much more attention to this theme in the training of architects and such professions? Actually, I thought that was all good suggestions. I would like to end my contribution with a number of questions to the Minister. He's new to this file. In my opinion, he has begun this subject with fresh courage and good sense; also involved, as a human being. I would like to know from him what has been done with the recommendations of the College of Human Rights, which has put forward a number of proposals. What about the local inclusion agenda, the fact that each municipality now has to make a plan for how it intends to implement and implement the UN Convention? That's great, but do all the congregations have such a plan now? What role does the Minister see for himself in the discussion with the municipalities to monitor their compliance? Or is this really about municipalities, but how can we keep the conversation going if things don't go well? And are all government buildings and government websites now completely accessible to people with disabilities? How are people with disabilities themselves involved in the implementation of that Convention? Two final remarks. A declaration of intent has been concluded in higher education to implement the UN Convention, but I believe that only three institutions have signed it. That could be a lot more. Is there a visual on that? Is there any way to seduce them positively? My final point, Mr President. Everyone calls for an annual debate on the accessibility of the Netherlands. I would say: a kind of State of the Union about the accessibility of the Netherlands. Actually, I think that's a good idea. Is the Minister prepared to report annually on the state of play? Then we can just have the debate every year and keep our finger on the pulse. I think that could be an encouragement for everyone to take next steps. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u45	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u46	Mr. Chairman. First of all, to Mrs Dijksma. As a former designer at an architect's office, I have always had a great deal of interest in making buildings accessible, including for people with disabilities. And in the limitation lies the challenge; that is the best thing for an architect. But when Mr Otwin entered this Chamber and became a Member of Parliament, I looked out for my eyes. What didn't all of us have to make accessible then? I think that's why, especially by Otwin himself, this has all come between our ears. And now the solution that Mrs Dijksma put forward: architectural education. I think you should look for it mostly in the Building Decision, because it will come along. I read in the committee's report that there is only something about agreements in the new construction of high and large buildings, so nothing about small houses close to the ground. I think there's a possibility there. I believe that the VVD tabled a motion on this at that time in the debate, but I am not quite sure anymore, Mr President. When I look at that first report, I think we should draw a little bit of the conclusion that little has happened. Accessibility shows shortcomings in all municipal areas: public space, buildings, information, communication, public transport, elections, education, labour, independent living, participation in society and equality before the law. We voted in favour of the law at the time, but against the Van Dijk amendment, because we believe that an entrepreneur who is not accessible is actually just a fool's errand, and not someone who should be brought to justice. What I find fantastic, besides those entrepreneurs, is that a cabaretière like Karin Bloemen will play her latest performance, Full Flower, once in front of a sign interpreter, including a song that she will perform in sign language. I admire that very much. And I can highly recommend every performance of Karin Bloemen, chairman. I've seen a lot of them in the past. That's always fun. As far as we are concerned, this also applies to the principle of "better the world, start with yourself." The government can really do a lot more. We hear reports that bus drivers drive on when they see a time-consuming client. That is, of course, really excessive. I think everyone on the bus understands that the bus is five minutes or two minutes later because someone with a disability is just on the bus. I think everyone just understands that. I've been talking about taxi drivers who refuse people with help dogs before. We all know they do that because they find dogs haram and there really is no other explanation. We need to monitor this more closely and the sanctions must be stricter. It must be so that their license can be taken away. I find the reports on bus transport in the province of Utrecht very positive. Not only did an inventory show that only 1.310 of the 2.989 bus stops were accessible, but it also showed that with half a million euros the province of Utrecht managed to increase that number to three quarters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u47	Let's talk about the previous tip of the assistance dogs, the help dogs. That is a subject to which I am greatly worse when it comes to people who are refused taxis. You can also see, for example, that at the moment when the rains are raining aid dogs are refused in shops because they would supposedly smell. Mrs. Agema did trigger me to see what to do with those shopkeepers or cab drivers. So I'm also curious about her ideas about that. She has an idea about taxi drivers, namely taking away the licence. But what do we do with those shopkeepers who refuse?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u48	We voted against the Van Dijk amendment. Of course, I understand now that it is the law and that it must be implemented, but I am not going to impose sanctions on an amendment that I did not support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u49	I'm just trying to see if I understand Mrs. Agema. In my view, Mrs Agema says that it would be a good thing that, if access is restricted, there is something about it, such as sanctions. She talked about taking away the license in the case of taxi drivers. She just triggered me to ask the Minister what people can do, except go to the Human Rights College and file a complaint. Does she agree that it would be good to explore with the Minister what is possible with regard, for example, to shopkeepers who refuse to allow aid dogs when it rains?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u50	I think the taxi drivers should be able to take away their taxi license. When it comes to shopkeepers, no, absolutely not. I did not support that amendment. A shopkeeper who's inaccessible is an asshole, but he's not a criminal to punish. I'm not gonna help you with that, no. I did not support that amendment. So I don't know why I should ask the Minister on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u51	I'm gonna keep going on this because I'm trying to understand it, too. Mrs Agema talks about tough measures for such a taxi driver, but not for such a shopkeeper, who has the same behaviour. So how am I supposed to understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u52	I did not support that whole generic amendment. So why should I take a generic measure if I do not support that generic amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u53	I'm not generic, I'm specific. We are talking about taxi drivers who refuse to let people with a dog do something about it, but if shopkeepers refuse to let people with a dog in, you think nothing should be done about it. That's very specific. Why should one be subject to a penalty and not to the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u54	I think a taxi driver shouldn't refuse someone with a help dog and else he should lose his taxi license. I think that's specific. But I don't think every shopkeeper should be accessible. I find a shopkeeper who isn't accessible a lot, but a taxi driver who leaves someone with a help dog, I just find rude.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u55	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The efforts of NS and ProRail are many, but it is also too little. We set the limit by the year 2030. I ask the Minister why we can't actually bring that forward. When you see how quickly and diligently those accessible bus stops in Utrecht have been tackled, my question is why we cannot demand this for train access. I would also like to mention the unfair mileage limit and the unnecessary registrations on Valys transport. I will table another motion for this because I will continue to try. Finally, the Internet and the semi-government. The hospitals and general practitioners are not accessible enough. That is semi-government, and this applies to the fact that the government itself must first get things in order. The municipalities also deserve a tap on the fingers, there are waiting lists for custom homes and too few suitable tools are provided from the Wmo. I think that this also means that there is a lot of work to be done for the new minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u57	Thank you, Mrs Agema. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Can the Minister answer directly or does he want a short suspension? The latter is the case. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u58	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the questions and speeches from the Chamber in the first place. Thank you for the commitment and passion with which this story has been told. That's right. Everyone must be able to participate fully in society. The implementation of the UN Convention on People with Disabilities is about something essential: building an inclusive society together. Everyone is needed and needs to take their part. It has been recalled by several of us, including Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Dijksma: the ratification of the UN Convention has been a very important milestone on the road to inclusive society. That horde doesn't need to be taken anymore. It's been taken. That threshold's bad. We can and must get to work now. I cannot sufficiently emphasise the importance of this. People with disabilities must ask for and accept help for the most basic things, but they want, like you and I, as much as possible to direct their lives, to participate on an equal footing in society and not to be treated differently or specifically. Although it often seems to be about small things, thresholds for example, it is about something big for people themselves, namely the question: are we really part of it? That's a big thing. This increases the feeling of dependence, which is what people do not want. The main themes of the UN Convention are awareness, participation and accessibility. It is important that we listen to people themselves. What's it gonna take for them? What's really helping them? The core concept of the treaty is not for nothing: nothing without us about us; nothing about us without us. Working for an inclusive society requires a lot of everyone who is part of that same society. It calls for the creation of good framework conditions and of urgency, in order to make a real difference, even in the coming period. I would like to begin by addressing in particular the many questions, the main thrust of the first-term input, the implementation of the Treaty and the ambition that we need to have, the targets that we need to mention and the coordinating role that I can play in it from VWS. Then I want to deal with a few loose cubes, around care, transportation, building and living and choosing. Finally, I have a block with varia, as it is called. I called that "other" last time, but that sounds like the questions are just a little less important, and of course they are not. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with the main block, implementation and what is important. I would like to emphasise a number of points. Implementation is now indeed important. Mrs Hermans mentioned it nicely: there is a huge pile of paper, with indeed a beautiful and solid implementation plan next to the law. Look at that implementation plan and at the report of the College of Human Rights, which says: it is only one year after the ratification of the UN Convention. I guess you'd have to ask yourself, are we moving fast enough? If we just follow the implementation plan as it is now, do we automatically know that the next report from the Human Rights College will be better? I honestly don't think so. I don't think that's gonna happen by itself. As Mr Van der Staaij said, sometimes you even see steps back if you are not careful. So it's something you have to be alert to all the time. That is why I would like to look with the parties that have been involved in that implementation plan to see if we could take a next step, on the same route, in a further concreteisation of that implementation plan. I am particularly concerned with the appointment of specific targets. In this way we know what we can do to each other, and we also know what municipalities and businesses are allowed to do to take concrete steps. I will discuss this with an alliance of municipalities and all other parties involved in the implementation plan. In fact, I think that we really need to make it more concrete with each other. In doing so, we must also say to each other, as I believe Mrs Hermans said, that the implementation of the UN Convention has a gradual route. Those were also the conditions under which the UN Convention was ratified. Yes, it has been talked about for a long time, and that has taken many people far too long, especially the people who it is. At the same time, it also has a good thing. The Netherlands has not signed its signature. The Netherlands has thought carefully: are we going to make this happen? That means that it is a yes that Parliament has given to the fact that the UN Convention is also a real yes, in the sense of a real commitment: yes, we are going to deliver, but under the condition of graduality. There's nowhere in The Hague I've searched very well, really where you could press a button so that the implementation was immediately achieved. It just isn't, there isn't. It simply requires work from all of us. That brings me to the questions that have been asked about the coordinating role. Of course I like to play that coordinating role, because I think it's a wonderful theme and because I really think it fits my portfolio. At the same time, it is all too easy to imagine if we think that if we take care of you as spokesmen and I, as Minister for Health, have the debate on the implementation of the UN Convention, the rest of the world will follow. It's not just my job, it's also the work of my colleagues in the cabinet. It is not just your work; it is also the work of your colleagues in the political groups. So, in all the debates on the Building Decision, public transport or education, as you have done, let your colleagues demonstrate with enthusiasm the accessibility of society and the importance of an inclusive society. I will do so in the direction of my colleagues. They're gonna get me on the phone a lot, and the less they run, the more they're gonna get me on the phone. I hope that you will do the same in the direction of your colleagues, because I think that is the only way we are going to get there. The issue has also been raised about how we deal with the municipal involvement in this. Of course, the primacy for local decisions really lies with local politics; I wouldn't want to change that at all. They are our most important co-government. In fact, if we are honest, we must say that for the accessibility and the inclusiveness of our society municipalities may be even more important than the government. It's government closest to people. It is the government that has the most decision-making power and has the greatest influence on local society. That's where the inclusion is felt or not. I therefore believe that the municipalities are the first designated government to be able to take steps towards a more inclusive society. Of course, I would very much like to discuss with municipalities the situation with regard to the local inclusion agendas; questions have also been asked about this. I would very much like to engage with municipalities to promote as much as possible that it will be an important topic in municipalities in the new coalition period, the new college period. But I also say that I should not only do this in the direction of municipalities. You all have representatives in almost all municipalities, at local level. I would like to invite you to ask your local colleagues to make this point big and important in the coming period. So yes, of course, I have that coordinating role. I'll play with verve too. But I don't have all the city councils on strings. I'm glad you didn't, by the way. Of course you do not, but you do have local counterparts, your local group members, who you can invite yourself to turn this theme, the inclusive society, into an important theme in the coming academic period. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u60	I see you walking to the interrupting microphone, Mrs. Bergkamp. But I would suggest that the Minister finishes this part, the implementation. After that, MPs will have the opportunity to interrupt if they need to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u61	Yes. Then let me finish as follows. We have work to do. I intend to send you a more concrete implementation programme of the UN Convention in the spring. I think we should be able to do it in May. This gives me the opportunity to have a discussion with municipalities and colleagues on what concrete targets and milestones they can set in the coming period. One colleague already has this more concrete than the other. Then I can come back to you and have the debate again. Of course, I am going to make good use of the time in the meantime for this conversation with colleagues and municipalities, but I also hope that you will use it for the conversation with your colleagues, in all the debates that are going on in the meantime, to get the theme of inclusive society on the agenda there too. Mr. Chairman. That was my general introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u62	I'm looking at Mrs Bergkamp, because she was the first one there. I give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp, even though she seems to want to lead someone else. You were there first, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u63	That's true. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I still have a question about the municipalities. I think the Minister is right to say that the municipalities must do their thing and we have a different responsibility from the Empire. However, he also said something in response to a request from the CDA to do something because there will soon be municipal elections. But I'm not sure what the minister's gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u64	My commitment is, of course, separate from municipal elections. The fact that there are municipal elections is particularly interesting for municipal councils. I'm sure I'll hand out a single leaflet on a Saturday somewhere. I don't rule that out entirely. By the way, I'm a list pusher somewhere. But my commitment is, of course, separate from municipal elections. What I do hope, and I also expect, is that the local inclusion agendas, which have been agreed with the VNG under the implementation plan, will also be included in the college programmes. But, of course, I cannot take action in this respect, as municipal councils themselves will have to do. So I'm gonna do it in two ways. One. I will talk to the VNG on behalf of these municipalities about how we can become more concrete in the agreement made in the implementation plan to arrive at local inclusion agendas. In my view, Mr Van der Staaij asked if I could return to the Chamber to explain to what extent that was possible. Yeah, I certainly hope to. Moreover, I do not know whether this will be possible in May, because lectures have often only just been completed. But yes, certainly, of course, I'm going to ask the VNG that question. And I hope to get a very concrete answer to that. That is what is needed in implementation. Here too, targets should be mentioned. That's my part of the action. I also hope that I hope that the choice will be made at local level to make this an important subject in these college agendas, in the college programmes, over the next period. But you can play a more important role in that than I can, namely just through your fellow party members on the local council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u65	Yes. Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u66	I'm glad the Minister says, "I hope so." Well, I guess I'll take that as my starting point. It shows something of his ambition. I am also glad that he will eventually leave it to the political parties to see whether or not it comes into the coalition agreement. I have a very brief question about that. We have, of course, tabled an amendment asking the city council to come up with an integrated plan and translate it into a social inclusion agenda. In fact, we as the Empire have already said that every municipality must have an integral plan. Is that what the Minister indicated in response to Mr Van der Staaij? Is there gonna be some kind of accountability about how that goes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u67	That's the formal side of the matter. Of course, municipalities here just have an assignment. This is the result of the amendment that you yourself tabled. In addition, there is also an assignment to involve client experience in policy choices by having a WMO board. This is often called a bit different in all municipalities, but that too is just a legal task. Moreover, as a municipality we have to answer to the city council in the first instance, but if we want this UN convention to become a reality in practice, I will go back to the implementation plan, and we will have to set targets. This also applies to the practical steps taken by municipalities. You ask me if I can report to the Chamber on this at some point. Then I say, "Yes, I do." Actually, I'd like to report annually. That was more of a question from Mrs Dijksma. I would like to report annually to the Chamber so that you can make that debate possible every year, a State of the Union on the UN Convention. You are going to have the debate yourself, but I certainly want to feed the debate with an annual report. By the way, I will even send a report twice this year, because we have to report to the UN Committee sometime in June.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u68	However, I would like to touch on the practicalisation that the Minister mentioned, on the targets and indicators that should become part of the implementation plan. Can you indicate how the formulation of targets and indicators relates to the principle of gradual and proportionate implementation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u69	That's actually an expression of that. If I were just to say that there should be local inclusion agendas and then think that we would have changed the world with them, I think that at some point you are right to ask: are they really there, and what does it actually say, and does that actually lead to real steps forward? If we were just to say that there should be accessible public transport and then look and wait for it to work out, I think you will say at some point: how many platforms are still not accessible and what is to be done? Moreover, I think that transport is a good thing, because it has set targets in a realistic way: what can be achieved within the budgetary framework, within time and so on? But they have set targets. I think that in a number of areas this can be even more concrete than what is now, because otherwise we are talking a little bit in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u70	Now you mention exactly the example I am talking about, because in the case of the platforms, the trains or the buses, you can also make that concrete. I am concerned that you want a form of access locally that fits the wishes and needs that live there. I sincerely and with interest wonder whether you can set that in target values and indicators in a way that does justice to the commitments we have made regarding the gradual implementation of this Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u71	I am convinced that you can only do so with due regard for the need to introduce it gradually. If you set targets that are unrealistic and priceless and only scare people into the curtains, but aren't really meaningful because you just can't get them, then we're not helping anyone at all. You can, of course, assume that, and let us also agree that you are testing that, when realising the implementation plan, we are discussing whether it is feasible. Is the path sufficiently ambitious, but also sufficiently realistic, to move towards that more inclusive society? Of course, I will test that with the partners involved in the implementation plan, but I would also like to invite you to continue to review that critically at the time I send that implementation plan towards the Chamber. That's what I'm sending it for. So I actually agree with you: yes, you have to do it, but you have to do it in a way that is realistic, sufficiently ambitious, of course, but also realistic. It must be possible to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u72	I think the Minister is very clear about making the implementation plans that are already in place more concrete. He wants to work with concrete targets. He rightly states that the municipalities are an important partner for this. The colleagues from the other departments are also important in this respect. Have I understood correctly to the Minister that he also wants to agree concrete targets with them? We have the local WMO councils, but in what way is the Minister going to ensure that the people who are involved are an equal partner in order to come up with a concrete implementation plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u73	The people with disabilities themselves are involved in all possible ways in our way of shaping policies, in the design of the implementation plan and then at all levels where this type of choice is made. That's how it's supposed to be. From my municipal period, I remember having a critical conversation once in a while, fortunately, it was more than that with the representation of the clients for which the municipality was responsible in a broad council. That is what the legislator invited us to do, and that is how we set it up. That was at the level of policy and at the level of monitoring of implementation, but actually at the level of planning. A very concrete example is the planning of what a central station should look like in terms of accessibility to sighting in the outer space. That's very concrete. Rotterdam was not the only one in that, certainly not. A lot of municipalities have designed this incredibly concretely. In short, what is needed is for participation to be organised at every level where a decision is taken on the way to a more accessible and inclusive society. That's what it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u74	Agreed! You need that expertise at all levels. In some places that happens very well. I'll take that for sure. However, I would ask the Minister to take another critical look at whether all policy areas, including at the national level, are well secured that the voice of people with disabilities is actually heard and that they participate equally in the development of these plans. I hope that's true. I also hear critical sounds that are not yet everywhere. Is the Minister prepared to take a good look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u75	Oh, yeah. I think it is a fair question and I would like to take the assignment with me to take a good look around me when making the implementation plan, if it is visible from our perspective, whether sufficient clients are involved or experience expertise is sufficiently involved in decision-making. Sure, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u76	It is an exciting debate, because municipalities have to get to work on the elaboration and we in the Chamber all hope that municipalities will do so quickly and quickly. Now I can see the differences between municipalities. The Minister has just mentioned municipalities that are perhaps more dynamic than others. The coalition agreement includes bringing the frontrunners and the leftovers into contact with each other. When does the Minister think he's gonna get a look at that? It may be a little early now, but when will it be? How are we going to organize that with each other, not because of naming-and-shaming, but just to learn from each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u77	I think that is in line with the answer I gave to the questions raised by Mrs Kuik, among others. You, Mrs Hermans and Mrs Bergkamp have asked very specifically about the lead programme. I know the VNG is working on that right now. A start has been made on setting up a frontrunner and support programme, in which municipalities that have already been asked to play a leading role within the municipality. I imagine that, in the discussion I am having with, among other things, the UNG on the concreteisation of the implementation programme, I would ask the UNG to take a few steps forward on this very point. Even within the municipality, it is always a bit complicated to decide around elections, so that will have a certain limitation in itself. At the same time, I know that this is being done. Let me agree with you that I will show this more concretely in the implementation programme that is coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u78	Perhaps it has already been discussed; excuse me if I ask the question twice. To what extent are experience experts also involved in assessing where the municipality is located?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u79	That has been discussed quite explicitly, but I am more than willing to say once again that I think that expertise at all levels at which decisions are taken should be involved. So where municipalities themselves create a local inclusion agenda, they can't actually do so without experience expertise involved. I don't underestimate your colleagues in city councils. It is certainly as critical as it is here in the Chamber to involve sufficient expertise. So all aldermen can wet their chests. Municipal councils are just critical of this and rightly so. So I do think that making such a local inclusion agenda should, of course, involve client experiences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u80	As the Minister said, he hopes to come forward with the further implementation programme in a few months' time and is also prepared to report annually, also in response to a question from Mrs Dijksma, on the state of play. He said separately, in response to a question from me and others, that he would also indicate how the municipalities are implementing it. My question is whether it would be useful to include this in this report and to link it together, so that, if the Human Rights College reports on an annual basis, we can hear the Minister tell us about the way in which the municipalities are going to implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u81	Yeah, that's good. That's definitely good. There's something else we can do. We could ask the college, which is somewhat more independent of the department, to report on this. I'll say one thing. This is not just here, but at all in all decentralised policy areas and in everything that we have made the municipalities responsible for, including in recent years. There is, of course, a system of responsibility from here, from the Chamber and from the Department, but it does not replace the municipal choices that are made. So it might well be that the SGP Group believes that the right steps cannot be taken or are being taken in the municipality of Dongeradeel at the moment. Yet the city council of Dongeradeel is the place to discuss this, even more so than the House of Representatives. I think we should keep that apart. We should not be doing the work of our colleagues from the municipal councils about this, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u82	I very much agree with that, but I do think it is interesting to hear it from the College of Human Rights, which has a task in reporting on it, or at least fill in the responsibility they have under the law to come up with an integral plan. That's a very modest way. It's important to hear and know if it's happening anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u83	Yeah, that sounds great to me. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u84	Then I suggest you move on. I believe that a great many questions have already been raised in the case of interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u85	I think so, too. I'm gonna go browse. In fact, I think we've had this whole cup. Once again, we can move on to a next heading, in which I deal with the questions that have been specifically raised in a policy area. Let's start with the care, with our own work. A number of Members have, in my view, rightly brought forward the study that was brought out last week, the study of Accessibility on the accessibility of hospitals' websites, general practitioners' posts and numerous health care clubs. I very much agree with everyone who has said that it is strange that care in particular is no longer taken into account when it comes to accessibility. Mrs Agema called it semi-government, but in fact it is often private institutions that manage those sites. At the same time, I really think that I should be expected to engage with care, no matter how wide that field is, in order to improve the accessibility of communication in healthcare. Of course I still don't have them on a string, but I would like this same research to be done next year with these numbers. So I really think we have work to do there and I'd like to get on with that. Here, however, I still have to puzzle before I dare mention the specific targets. So that's what I'm puzzled on and I'm going to go back to that implementation plan, but I'd like to get started on that. That is actually the most important question that has been asked about care. Then there's the transport. As I said just now, I think transport is a good example where very concrete targets have been mentioned for where we could stand. Step-by-step approach to greater accessibility must also be verifiable at some point in time. For example, it has been mentioned that by 2020 it should be possible to make 90% of journeys to and from an accessible station. All stations should be accessible by 2030. There's a pretty good program for that too with ProRail. Of course, the Minister of IenW is talking about this with ProRail. There is a substantial amount available, 600 million, to make those stations accessible. The first milestone, in my opinion, was that at the time of Secretary of State Dijksma, is very special, though. She said it very modestly in a sentence in between, but making all stations throughout the Netherlands accessible to people with visual impairment is a very special milestone. It is right, of course; it belongs entirely within the UN Convention, but it is also very special. It is the only country in Europe that is already there. I think that through these concrete steps we should work towards more accessible public transport. The Minister of IenW is here in the lead. The Ministry is also very involved in the topic of accessibility. NS is working hard on it, ProRail is working hard on it, bus and regional transport is working hard on it, although of course that is not controlled nationwide, although there is a Decision on accessibility of public transport. So that is a good example of how you can also use your colleagues to work towards a more accessible society, because those are, of course, the decisions that go by in the AOs on the other side. Then Mrs Bergkamp specifically asked whether the Minister would be prepared to look with the Secretary of State for IenW at the situation with regard to accessibility targets. Yes. I will come back to that in the implementation programme, but I actually have the impression that it is being followed well and that those targets are actually still up to date. But I'm definitely gonna talk to the Secretary of State for IenW about that. Mr Hijink asked what concrete measures we would take. I have just mentioned a number of them; they have already been more or less agreed, including with ProRail, the NS and bus and regional transport. But I will come back to that more precisely in the implementation programme. Mrs Bergkamp also asked whether a little more ambition could be added to the targets mentioned. Of course, this has an immediate practical implication, namely: you have to break open more stations at the same time, and that always has consequences for the timetable, for example. This also applies to the fact that, of course, it has a huge financial implication. The amount reserved for the adjustment of the stations is quite a considerable amount, so it is not just planned to bring something forward or do something extra in it. It's not that easy to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u86	Were you finished with this section on transportation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u87	No, because I have something else to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u88	Then I suggest you finish that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u89	Yes. Mr Van der Staaij asked a logical question, which is also quite complicated when you are not so much in the timetables. So I would actually suggest that I take up this question with my colleague from IenW and come back to it in your direction. I think that's what's gonna happen with that implementation program. The same is true of how the NS could improve information on accessibility. The suggestions you put forward for this were extremely sensible and logical, but I cannot fully see the feasibility of this. So I will really have to discuss this with my colleague, as well as the degree of enforcement of the legal principle that assistance dogs should, of course, be allowed everywhere, including in taxi transport. How to enforce that? There is simply a way to the College of Human Rights, but that is, of course, a fairly long road. In the meantime, it is also true that practice is often more uncomfortable than the desired reality. But I will also record that with my colleague from IenW. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u90	I am glad that the Minister and IenW's colleague are going to look into the situation with regard to these targets. Can the Minister also tell us when he can get back to that? And I had asked not only about the railroad, but also about the tram, the bus and the bus stops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u91	That will be in the implementation programme. You actually asked two questions. What about these targets, are they still up to date and what are we going to do in concrete terms? That is also Mr Hijink's question. I will come back to that in the implementation programme. I am giving a profit warning on your second question, namely: can it all be speeded up a bit? That can't be done; not for free, anyway. Then I'll go to the questions about education. There's actually a couple of them. The first concerns equal access rights. That is a question, among others, from Mrs Dik-Faber. For this, of course, education is also at the point of implementing the UN Convention. Are we there yet? Well, not yet. I actually think that as you get higher into the system, the degree of accessibility leaves a little more to be desired, so to speak. So I think there really is still work to be done. I did not know the number of universities that co-signed the Memorandum of Understanding. You brought that up, I believe. Mrs Dijksma brought that up; I am confusing you all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u92	They're very similar, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u93	Actually, yeah. So there's just work to be done. Of course there's work to be done. I would like to discuss this with my colleague from Education, from higher education in this case. The SGP Group says: now the College of Human Rights is actually hanging a little above the market that education only complies with the UN Convention when all schools are truly fully inclusive schools. You can look at it in a very legal way. In addition to the UN Convention on Disabilities, there is also an International Convention on the Rights of the Child. In it, governments commit themselves to do everything possible to guarantee the right to quality education that actually develops all talents. If that obligation is also taken into account, I think that the current implementation practice is actually closer to those two obligations, namely: including where that is possible, the appropriate education law, but especially where it should be. For example, the children of mytyl school are really better served at a mytyl school than that would be possible at all in regular education. The same applies to the children at a tyltyl school, for example. So my impression is that the balance that currently exists within the framework of legislation on appropriate education, where we choose as a starting point regular where it can, as inclusive as possible, but especially where it has to, in order to guarantee the right to education, is a wonderful balance. I feel no need to deviate from that. Then I'll continue to build on the questions that have been asked. They are so concrete for an important matter that I am simply going to get on with it with my fellow Members. I will return to the implementation plan. I think we should say to each other here that the construction sector has actually shown itself to be quite a step forward by coming up with the action plan for construction. Of course, we can always think that it could be even more concrete or even more ambitious. That is possible, but I think that, frankly, is a faster road to success than waiting for us to amend a Building Decision. Well, then we're really not gonna get results for another couple of years. In my view, this is a faster challenge to do what Mrs Dijksma mentioned as an example, namely to give real attention to accessibility in the training of architects. So I think this is a faster route to concrete, tangible results than a route to the Building Decision and the adaptation of building regulations. Then I'll go to the questions about choosing, the voting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u94	I had also briefly mentioned the responsibility of the government itself for its own communication. I don't know if that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u95	Communication? Yeah, I'll get to that. Oh, yeah. Choose it. Everyone wants voters with disabilities, whether physical or intellectual, to be able to vote independently. Much more and more has been said about this. This was also discussed in detail during the previous cabinet period. Of course, I am also talking about this with my colleague from the Interior. Mr Ollongren is currently considering extending the possibilities of assistance in the voting booth to people with learning difficulties. I would add, however, that we need to discuss this very carefully, because it is not for nothing that a number of hesitations are raised in this debate too. Isn't there a high risk of influence? We really shouldn't want to, because then we'll be farther from home. So are there any ways of helping to vote in such a way that there is no risk of influence, for example because that assistance is given by voters? But also then you have to look at the safeguards that fit in to not at least create the appearance of influence. Mr Ollongren talks about this with the Election Council and with the Human Rights College, which makes recommendations. That's about the ideas in the implementation. She has a letter in her pen and will let the Chamber know in a while what the outcome will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u96	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u97	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u98	Of course, this must be done very carefully. I am well aware of that. It is important to take into account that people with a slight intellectual disability now have the opportunity to empower others to vote. But it is precisely that group that matters that they also have a voice. They need support, but they also want to be taken seriously. We have discussed this as a political dimension, including with a number of organisations. My question to the Minister is: can you...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u99	Could be the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u100	...to inform your colleague that it is very important that these organisations are involved in the discussion about extending these possibilities? It is important that the College of Human Rights discuss this issue, but certainly also the people themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u101	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u102	This is where it begins: we should not speak to these people, but to these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u103	That's right. It is, but the discussion is mainly about: can you shape it in such a way that there is no undue influence? And influence is, in fact, always improper when it comes to voting. That is why this discussion is being held with the College of Human Rights and the Election Council as interlocutors, but, of course, this also includes real inclusion and therefore indeed the discussion with experience experts. By the way, there are already a number of examples of how to at least guide you towards the voting booth. There are several disability care organisations that have very practical opportunities for voting as a group. That's actually very nice. But what has always been lacking so far is the actual help in the voting booth itself. That is still a threshold. That conversation, once again, is being held by colleague Ollongren. The cabinet will return to the direction of your Chamber. Then I get to the block of varia. I shall begin with a question from Mrs Ellemeet. It's about government communication, especially about the I.V.B. target group. That is really a target group where communication such as we invent here or as conceived by governments does not always land. That goes from package leaflets on medications to letters from the IRS. You can't think of it that crazy or it's complicated. The first thing I would like to say to that is that we should all have that on our retina. I think that the awareness that this is objectionable is not really coming until recently. In the case of legislation that is made here, which is typed by us but is assessed here, we need to be much more aware of what this legislation and its communication means for people with a slight intellectual disability. The cabinet has a role to play in this. But the Chamber also has the task of reviewing legislation in this way and with those glasses. Next, there is public communication. And yes, more attention is needed from both the government and all other public administrations, especially from the municipal services, to ensure that that communication is understood by the lvb target group, so to speak. So we just have work to do there. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u104	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u105	Then the question of Mrs... Excuse me, Mr. Hijink. We can be very gender neutral about that, but of course it is not. He asked about the commune of Lingewaard. Does the Minister consider that financial considerations may outweigh people's interests? I think I have already answered written questions about this, if I am correct. The answer is, of course, no, because the law has a compensation obligation in it. That means this is a municipal assignment. I say that in a general sense, of course. Moreover, the precise issue in the commune of Lingewaard has now been brought to the attention of the city council and the judge. That makes me a little more reluctant about this case in my statements. However, in general terms there is a compensation obligation, regardless of the financial situation of the municipality. Mr Hijink also asked if we could do something for people with disabilities who have to keep telling us about their limitations when applying for a tool. It's not that easy. I'd like to say yes, and I recognize it, but this is really an issue that you need to address at local level. If the local application procedure has been reduced so that you can indeed tell your story again at every window, then the city council has a lot to ask the alderman about how to do this differently and better. We are, however, together with the VNG, making an analysis of the situation. I think I mentioned this in your direction in the budget debate. The questions that were asked about them were more about the waste of resources, for example about stair lifts that had to be applied for again. What about the application procedures? There's no other way? Can we look at this with more eye for waste? I would like to see if the answer to that question, which we are discussing with the VNG in this way, could possibly also be an answer to your question. But in general, I must say that this is really up to the municipal councils.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u106	I'd like to go a little wider. Of course, it's not just about the local government. The point is that people have to define what kind of limitation they have, for example with the health insurance provider or when applying for benefits. Of course, there are many more bodies than just the local government where this problem occurs. Public authorities know everything about us, from bsn numbers to birth dates, everything. Then it must also be possible to get it arranged so that people with disabilities do not have to describe again and again, year in, year out, even if a request has to be repeated, what is going on with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u107	If that is at the same point of contact, then of course what you say is true. Then that information is indeed known. You do not have to re-assess every year that there is an intellectual limitation. You also do not have to re-assess every year that there is a physical limitation. A leg doesn't usually grow. So if it's about the same indicative agency, then of course what you're saying is true. But I think you overestimate how much of that kind of information is interchangeable between, for example, the municipality and the CIZ. It's also the question of whether we should want some kind of central database. I think a number of other parties would think of that: isn't that a serious breach of privacy? When it comes to making procedures simpler and preventing indicative conversations that need to be repeated over and over again, I agree with you in general. But to be honest, I don't think we should go in the direction of going over the indicative bodies, so that the health insurance company, the CIZ and a municipality would use the same kind of database.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u108	I am not saying that this is by definition the solution, but I would be happy if the Minister could promise that, when he comes up with proposals to fill in the treaty, he will take a look at this and that he will not only point to the local authorities but also to other organisations, consult other bodies to see what he could do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u109	When it comes to repeated indications at a point of contact that does indeed have to be not only the municipality, that can also be the CIZ, then I would like to look at that. But I don't want to say much more than that either, because I know it's too harsh for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u110	I suggest you move on. You should also go to a rounding, because we have been working for almost an hour now on...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u111	It is, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u112	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u113	The intentions were even so good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u114	You get it done every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u115	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u116	Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u117	This point was not raised by me in the debate, but I would like to support the SP Group in this regard. I hear stories very often from people who do indeed have to go to the municipality, while the down syndrome remains the down syndrome, if it is a progressive disease and impossible questions are asked. It seems to me that national rules stand in the way of this, as if there are specific rules that make municipalities ask what they are asking for. If the Minister says that he is not, then I have an answer for our council groups and I can say to them: there is maximum freedom; people only have to come by once, then it is done. But maybe there are national rules that get in the way of this. Which is what I'm getting back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u118	I honestly can't imagine it, but I'm not against looking at it either. I just said I'd like to take a look at that. Let me give you an example. The compensation obligation in the Wmo or the Youth Act does imply that a municipality looks at what the compensation should look like, because that is what the legislator has rightly determined. It is not so much about "knowing that I had Down's syndrome," because that doesn't mean what type of compensation is included. The same applies, of course, to physical restrictions. Physical limitations with a certain progression must also be looked at differently. I agree that one municipality is better at that than the other. I certainly recognize that clumsy things are being asked out and that too many questions are being asked out. There are also meters to deal with, but I got the impression that Mr Hijink asked for some sort of single audit, so that it is clear at once for all those indicting bodies. But it's not that simple: that's the profit warning I'm issuing in that respect. However, I have already promised that I will see to what extent this can be simplified and to what extent it can be avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u119	Good. Then you'll move on now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u120	Just a few more questions, and I'll do it fast. Mrs Bergkamp asked how we are going to ensure that people with complaints about how they have dealt with their restriction can also easily go somewhere. The Human Rights College is the appropriate body for this purpose. Internationally, by treaty, the State is also obliged to designate a company competent to do so. In the Netherlands that is the College of Human Rights. I do not agree that this would be insufficiently accessible for the submission and handling of such complaints. But if you mean anything else, I'd like to hear what you actually mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u121	No, Mrs Bergkamp, I would like to ask the Minister to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u122	Okay. Let me say the following: I assume that the College is able to be accessible for the submission of a complaint. With a view to making the programme, too, I will check whether it really is, how the College itself looks at it and what else and better it could do to ensure accessibility. Mrs. Dik-Faber and others asked about the audio description at the NPO. I did indeed see the report on this matter published last week. But I really need to talk to Mr Slob first about what further steps may need to be taken on this point. In my view, this was also Mr Van der Staaij's question. I have one more question about Mrs Bergkamp's medical bathroom pass. At least that pass doesn't belong to Mrs Bergkamp, but she asked if I could only bring it to the attention of VNO-NCW. Although I do not know these recently, I am willing to look up what it is and to bring them to the attention of VNO-NCW with the question of whether its application can be wider. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u123	I would like to have a discussion with the Minister on one small subject. It's about money. We have now discussed the role he sees for himself and the fact that many municipalities can also do things. But can you tell me again whether additional money has also been made available in the coalition agreement to speed up the implementation of the UN Convention? Or do you have to do it with what was there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u124	Quite a lot of extra money has been made available. That is not labeled as a budget to accelerate the implementation of the UN Convention. That is not possible either, because it would remove the implementation of the UN Convention from the budgets. But there is a serious amount for additional investments in the field of IenW. And there is a fairly serious amount of money involved as extra intensification for municipalities, for example. The accres has never been as big as it is at this time. I therefore believe that there is considerable money, but it has not been labelled separately for the UN Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u125	I ask this because the Minister rightly indicated at the beginning of his speech that he wants to work with the advice of the College of Human Rights. That also says: some things go too slow. If you're gonna speed up, you're gonna need money. Partly there is national money available. But the accres you mention will soon become a kind of Pandora box, because from that you will also have to pay the Netflix tariff of the Wmo and there are a number of other things that will disappear in that accres. How do we know that whatever resources are available can also contribute to this acceleration? You're gonna put that in the picture, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u126	No. I don't see much added value in that. Then I'm all gonna make a bunch of things, and I'm gonna charge things off to possible measures that municipalities have to take. In the inter-administrative relations between the Empire and the municipalities, this is common practice and municipalities themselves prefer that to all separate grant streams. They prefer the integrality of the budget so that the local decision-making space that is available is respected. That's actually how we do two things. One: we enable parties to do what is expected of them under the law. Two: we respect the local choices that are made in it. I think that fits perfectly within the proportions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u127	No, Mrs. Dijksma, no more interruptions. Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u128	I thought I'd wait for my point to come. I've been talking about the wake-up call, the awareness we all need to have. Does the Minister also see a leading role for himself in the learning process? I also mentioned that every minister has a responsibility. This minister is himself a point of contact. How does he see his role vis-à-vis the other ministers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u129	I thought, implicitly, even quite explicitly, that both questions were addressed. As for the wake-up call, here's what I'm saying. Of course, I'm not gonna stand on the roof with a big shouting horn. But we are dealing with each other in an implementation programme in which we are more concrete than we are in the current implementation plan. This means that we are going to set specific targets so that the Chamber is no longer talking in the air when checking the cabinet, but can actually keep its finger on the wrist. I think that is the first thing that matters. And yes, of course, that is a function. If, as part of this process, the VNG or a municipality with a leading approach is set to work, as is also included in the coalition agreement, then of course that is a wake-up call. Beautiful examples, good examples where thresholds are lowered, are extremely inspiring. That's what a wake-up call assumes. By the way, bad examples are also extremely activating. That's what a wake-up call assumes. So do I see a pioneering role for myself? I think I've just described how I see this leading role.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u131	I just asked a follow-up question about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u132	The co-ordination?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u133	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u134	Coordinating towards my colleagues, I say: yes, I am, because you address me to that and that is what I am. At the same time, my colleagues also have to move themselves, of course. They'll get me on the line when they're encouraging and a little more often when they're more encouraging, but I hope I don't have to do that on my own. I hope that within your group you will keep your colleagues awake and sharp when it comes to promoting accessibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u135	That is also what you said. Thank you. I think you were done, or did you have anything else?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u136	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u137	Sorry to make you so... Let us now move on to the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u138	Can we just suspend for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u139	Yeah, it's a short suspension. Then I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u140	I will reopen the sitting and give Mrs Kuik the floor on behalf of the CDA. Have you collected enough signatures?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to table a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government agreement includes that municipalities that have been actively engaged in the implementation of the UN Convention can be linked to municipalities that are lagging behind;]] [[Whereas municipalities have a good opportunity to implement the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities close to people;]] [[Considering that municipal elections are an excellent time to re-evaluate ambitions for the implementation of the UN Convention;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the VNG, to encourage each municipality to draw up a local inclusion agenda for the implementation of the UN Convention, whereby leading municipalities can be actively linked to municipalities that are lagging behind, and to report to the Court annually,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Dijksma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-165]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u142	Mr President, I welcome the ambition of this Minister. Glad to hear he's got real goals. I also welcome the commitment that he is going to encourage municipalities to include this in the coalition agreement. Of course, I like to pick up the gauntlet to call on my fellow party members in the various municipalities to show that ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u143	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister has just responded briefly to the request of several parties, including the Christian Union and the SGP, to consult with the NPO on how to make more television programmes accessible to people with visual disabilities. In order to give the Minister a boost in the right direction, I will table the next motion together with Mr Van der Staaij. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas public service broadcasting should also be accessible and attractive to people with visual impairment;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine whether and to what extent NPO television programmes can be supported by audio descriptors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-166]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to correct one thing about the College of Human Rights. That is a very accessible organisation, which is doing an incredibly good job. I am more concerned that if people run into something or they are refused somewhere, the way to the college is quite far for them. I am very pleased that the Minister has interpreted it in this way and that he wants to see with experience experts how we can improve information and so on. I am also pleased that the Minister is going to take a serious look at what the National Toilet Pass means. I'd like to make another broader appeal. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people with disabilities or disabilities and chronically ill people in public areas have problems with the use of toilets and this group is often not allowed to use toilets in shops or public buildings;]] [[noting that in other countries the use of toilets in shops and public buildings is easier and that the amount of public toilets is often larger;]] [[calls on the Government to discuss with VNO-NCW and SMEs the Netherlands to increase the accessibility of toilets for people and to discuss with the VNG to increase the amount of public toilets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-167]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas various civil society organisations have expressed concerns about the progress, pace, results and process of achieving the objectives of the UN Convention;]] [[having noted that the College of Human Rights has also made a critical comment on this in its first report of the Convention;]] [[Considering that, on behalf of the Dutch State, the VWS Ministry has the coordinating role with regard to the implementation of the UN Convention for all areas to which the Convention applies, and from that role in Geneva in mid-2018 will be accountable to the United Nations for its progress;]] [[calls on the Government to respond in substance to the recommendations of the College of Human Rights and to inform the Chamber by mid-year at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-168]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u147	You have 35 seconds, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u148	I'm gonna do my best. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by the Trimbos Institute on behalf of the College of Human Rights shows that many slightly mentally handicapped people experience great limitations in voting;]] [[Whereas, in line with the UN Convention for People with Disabilities, people with a non-physical disability should also be able to receive assistance in the voting booth;]] [[believes that, in a fully functioning democracy, every adult in the Netherlands should be able to vote;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the Tickets Act to allow assistance in the voting booth for people with a slightly intellectual disability,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-169]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u149	I'm running out of time to file my final motion. I therefore ask the Minister for the commitment that the implementation plan should also take into account clear public communication for people with mild intellectual disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u150	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I now give the floor to Mrs Hermans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u151	Mr. Chairman. Remove barriers in everyday life. Fortunately, very good things are already happening before that, but there is still a lot of work to be done. We have consciously chosen the path of graduality, starting with simple adjustments and then thinking about further increasing accessibility. As stated in the explanatory memorandum to the Convention, this does not include an end date. That process always goes on. Awareness is also an ongoing process. We must therefore be careful not to smother the joint process, which has been and must continue to be based on intrinsic motivation, with the formulation of indicators and targets. Then it's about election support. I would like to stress that I think it is very important that we distinguish between casting your voice and determining your voice. Supporting that first, I can imagine a lot of that, but determining your voice is something very personal to me. That's a little tricky sometimes. That is why there are dials and parties try to explain their views easily. But there's also a limit. If you're going to assist people in making a decision, you're going to deliberately or unconsciously influence them. That may happen with the best of intentions, but it is contrary to the essence of elections. You decide who you want to vote for and why. That is why this proposal really goes a few steps too far for my party. However, I can imagine that we are investigating whether we can improve the way in which we inform this group. I ask the Minister if he can add that element to the research that his colleague from BZK is going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u152	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dijksma on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u153	Mr President, first of all, the good news: a motion on which we are all in agreement. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the UN Convention for People with Disabilities has been ratified;]] [[Whereas the implementation of this Convention is in full swing;]] [[Notes that the Court holds an annual main debate on the progress of the implementation of the UN Convention;]] [[calls on the government to send an annual report to the Chamber on the accessibility of the Netherlands prior to the debate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dijksma, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Bergkamp, Mr Hermans, Mr Kuik, Mr Agema, Mr Hijink and Mr Dik-Faber.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-170]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u154	So, in part, it is a call that we make to ourselves and which we record with it. Part of this commitment is also made by the Minister, for which I am grateful. I think it's a good start. The only moment I began to doubt myself for a moment was when we were talking about a difficult subject, namely money. Then the minister referred to existing jars nationally and to the accres of the municipalities. I would like to say one thing about that. This includes targets: what do you want to achieve? Beware, I would say through you, President, to the Minister, that this accres is not going to be your own Bermuda Triangle. Everything is attributed to it and put in, but you never see it coming out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u155	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, a point about the Building Decision. I just said that you should change that decision when it comes to accessibility. I would have taken that out of the evaluation; it is literally in it as a recommendation. Not architectural education, but the Building Decision needs to be adapted. I would like to point out once again that I agree with the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u157	Do you have any motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u158	Yes, I have one motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u159	I'd say get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u160	I have not heard the Minister again about the mileage limit for Valys transport. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a mileage limit of up to 600 kilometres for the standard Valys transport, the so-called personal mileage budget (pkb);]] [[noting that the Valys user pays about €0.20 per kilometre if he or she travels above regional level (and pays the same as someone would pay for a train journey without a restriction) and that this will suddenly be €1.22 per kilometre if the mileage limit is exceeded;]] [[considers that equivalence means that people with or without restrictions pay the same amount for public transport;]] [[noting that the wheelchair accessibility of our stations is still very poor, since only 107 of the 400 stations provide assistance when entering and leaving the train and that many of the persons concerned remain dependent for the time being on upper regional transport;]] [[Considers that the individual registration of the mileage used leads to unnecessary administrative burdens and is also undesirable in the context of the privacy of the user, especially since a train traveller does not have to administer where he or she is going on a public mission;]] [[noting that the macro budget for Valys amounts to around EUR 60 million and that around EUR 1 million is used each year to assess whether people are getting a higher figure;]] [[Considering that only 1.5% of Valys users wish to use more kilometres and that 1.5% of 60 million euros are less than 1 million euros and that, in principle, they should be able to eliminate them in a budget neutral manner;]] [[having noted that a windfall of EUR 2.9 million is reported in the 2016 annual report;]] [[calls on the Government to lift the mileage limit and the administrative burden and registration of kilometres for the Valys transport with a personal kilometer budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-171]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u161	That's what I think I went 38 seconds past my time. I'm thinking, I'll get started, then I guess you don't know...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u162	I know that trick. I'll see if he can start his answer. Most of the motions he has in the meantime and the final motion is copied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u163	The motion in part No. 166 I'll do at the end. In any case, I am sure that there is also a wonderful piece of advice from the civil service. I'll start with the rest of the motions. The first motion is that of Mrs Kuik c.s. in piece No. 165. This motion calls for consultation with the VNG to encourage each municipality to draw up the local inclusion agenda for implementation. A second element in the question is to report on how the leading municipalities are doing. I think that is very much in line with the dispute we have just had. There is a point of interest to all of us, namely the following. Of course, we are dependent on that co-government, certainly the co-government that is much closer to citizens, for the implementation of the UN Convention. If we want to know what the situation is, it is therefore important that we make and follow up on these agreements. But the primate lies with the municipalities. As far as I am concerned, we are not going to have municipal discussions at the level of the Lower House, however much we have an opinion on how things should be in Dongeradeel. Our colleagues there can do that. Having said that, I could accept the motion as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u164	I look around to see if anyone has any objection to taking over the motion in part No. 165 by Mrs Kuik c.s. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u165	Then the motion to part No. 166. As much as I can understand the content of this motion, I really do need to consult with my colleague on that. If you will allow me to raise this request with my colleague, I would like to ask: hold the motion until I have been able to discuss it with my colleague. Perhaps I can just come back to that in the implementation programme in May. Maybe you can hold the motion until then. If you put him to the vote now, I would advise him to be cautious. But that's probably a shame, because I could just imagine that we can do this fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u166	We'll hold the motion for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u167	At the request of Mr Hijink, I propose his motion (24170, No. 166). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u168	The motion in part No. 167 calls on the government, together with VNO-NCW and SME-Netherlands, to increase the accessibility of their members to people with disabilities. If I could ask Mrs Bergkamp to amend the motion in the sense that the motion asks me to discuss it with both parties, I could leave the motion to the House's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u169	That's what I'm gonna do. The motion needs to get a little more tidy anyway. So that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u170	Then that motion will be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u171	Thank you. Then I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then I have the motion in part no. Mr Ellemeet asked for a reply in mid-May to the recommendations of the College of Human Rights. I think that is very appropriate when it comes to steering an implementation programme. This is partly a response to the recommendations of the College of Human Rights. I should therefore like to leave the opinion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 169 calls on the government to amend the Tickets Act to allow assistance in the voting booth. Look, that's gonna take me three steps too fast. I think we had a good discussion about that. I think it would be wise for my colleague Mr Ollongren to discuss what is possible in it, taking into account the vulnerability which Mrs Hermans points out. So I guess we don't have to want to hink-step-jump the law by motion right now. We're gonna have to have that conversation. I have already promised you that my colleague will come back to the Chamber on what is and is not possible in it and under what conditions. In any case, the direction is to make voting more accessible. I don't think we disagree on that direction. The motion in part No. Mrs Dijksma asked the government to send an annual report to the Chamber on accessibility. I would, of course, like to say that I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. As for debate: I'm ready when you are; if you call me, I come. But if you plan it, that's up to you. Then there's a literary masterpiece, Mrs. Agema. I think it could just get a point or three on an average book list for high school. Still, I'm going to discourage this motion. That has to do with the fact that I think that the arrangement as it is now is not really that crazy. There is indeed a mileage, of that 600 kilometers. But that is for people who still have to be considered reasonably able to use public transport. If that is not possible at all, there is another mileage limit, namely 2,200 kilometres. That's one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u172	Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u173	Two is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u174	Sorry. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u175	Two is that there is simply a budgetary consequence to this motion on the release of a mileage limit. I must say that the motion is not covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u176	I know the motion is long. But she's very concretely covered. I would point out that this costs about a million. That's what I'm calculating in this motion. First, I'll report the assessment for that higher mileage budget. That's $1 million. That's one cover. The other cover is the downfall of 2.9 million. That's another cover; so I covered it twice. The Minister's argument is therefore not valid. Anyway, the minister wants to be very dickful about a batter of about a million. But I would like these people to be equal before the law in this particular case. I will therefore pass this proposal on to the College of Human Rights. I'm just gonna ask them. If this is being done so childishly for 1 million euros, I'm just gonna ask them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u177	Mr President, Mrs Agema is free to ask anyone. I wouldn't want to get in the way of that. I'm just giving my valuation. The motion is not just covered by reference to an underexhaustment in an annual report of 2016. That doesn't cover the motion. The second is that there is quite a lot to say for the choice now made in the scheme, namely to distinguish between those who could still make use of public transport for part of their journey, and those who cannot do so. For people who really can't do it, the mileage limit of 600 kilometres already doesn't apply, and for that there is another mileage limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u178	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u179	Yes. And if you're healthy, it doesn't apply at all. Then you don't have to give anyone insight into where you're going and when you're doing that. If you're healthy. That is the reason for this motion. If you're healthy, you don't have a limit on your mileage at all. That is the reason for this motion. And indeed, an under-exhaustment is a sound cover. What the hell! There's an underexhaustment on the budget for Valys. And...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u180	In 2016, Chairman. In 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u181	Yeah, but we haven't finished 2017 yet, have we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u182	We are now in 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u183	Yeah, but that doesn't give us the pieces until May, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u184	All right, you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u185	This is the most recent piece I can rely on, isn't it? We don't get the 2017 bill until May, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u186	Mr President, I would like to repeat myself. I think we've had it together. I advise against this motion. Well, then I'm basically through the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u187	There were probably questions, too. From Mrs. Ellemeet? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u188	Yes, there were a few more questions, indeed. I'm going to treat it now. Mrs Ellemeet is asking for a commitment on public communication. I can honestly imagine that. It wouldn't be easy from the VWS ministry to look at all the departments everywhere with that government communication. There's no way to do that. For that, it is so much what is communicated every day from all public services. What is to be done, however, is that in the implementation plan I indicate to the Chamber how the government intends to take steps in public communications for everyone, it is not the exclusive competence of VWS but all communicating public services to ensure that that communication is closer to people and therefore also easier and more transparent. That's one subject. The second subject comes from Mrs Dijksma. She had a qualification of the accres. I do not think that we are talking about this for the very first time, so let us not repeat it every time we debate it. But if the question is whether you should label money available for the UN Convention on Disabled People separately, I say: no, that is a very unwise idea. If there is any question of whether, within the regular budgets, this applies not only to the Municipal Fund, but certainly also to all those other budgets, money to shape the implementation of the Convention, the answer is simply "yes'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u189	I just wanted to talk about it every time. I think that's my constitutional right, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u190	Ah, we're about to start!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u191	No, we're not gonna start like this. I also hope that we will not end up like this! I think this is what this is about. I merely ask how the Minister intends to finance this acceleration, which he rightly considers necessary. What do you have in store for that nationally and what's local? You refer to the accres...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u192	The Minister's referring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u193	The Minister, President, refers to this in many examples, but it is not infinite. It's not a money printing machine. There may be more in it than ever, but you may also be getting more out of it than ever. That's my point. That's not gonna make sense to us. That's my problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u194	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u195	Let me make a deal with Mrs. Dijksma. This also applies: ready when you are. If you want to engage in this debate with me in every debate, I will do so with you every time, but of course I don't have to. I'd like to add that. This cabinet period has a considerable additional flow of money going to the municipalities. That's what we call the accres. This fits in with the intergovernmental relations between government and municipalities. We could also have labeled a separate game per measure that we ask of municipalities. We could have done that, but the government agreement did not prescribe that, and we did not do that. There is a considerable amount of money in infrastructure investments in the coalition agreement. Separate jars could have been put in place to comply with the UN Convention, but they were not chosen to do so. I would not like to choose for that either, because I believe that the inclusiveness required in policy-making and in the choices we make does not require that we see compliance with the UN Convention as a separate thing. Our policy-making has to comply with that UN convention at all. So I would also find it ideologically wrong to prepare separate jars of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u196	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u197	But I am also not looking for an ideological debate at all, because I agree with you that you do not need to label it. I'm not asking you to. I only ask you to make it clear how it will be financed if there is an acceleration. And yes, that accres is bigger than it was, but the challenges that go to municipalities are also much greater. These are not only tasks on the social domain, because gas connections, for example, must all be removed. The municipalities have to pay a lot of things from the accres. As a Member of Parliament, I am asking how I can check that all those appointments that need to be carried out locally can actually be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u198	I think we can do that for a very short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u199	It is quite a daring statement to say that the commission for municipalities is greater in the coming cabinet period, or this cabinet period, than in the past cabinet period. That's a bold theorem. I am sure that the financial space for municipalities during this cabinet period is considerably larger than in the past cabinet period. I'm afraid to say that with certainty. That's one. Two: no, we are not going to label separately what is intended for the UN Convention. If you find and if municipalities feel that they are being called upon to speed up, which is not financially feasible, then I think they will be put on the hold when concrete agreements are reached. This also applies to other parties, because it is not just the municipalities that are in the process of doing so. For example, Mrs Bergkamp has just asked whether the OV targets could be brought forward. Frankly, I think that when I discuss this with my colleague from IenW, she will say: it cannot be free, it cannot be without extra money. Of course, there's a financial limitation to the speed you can make. That is obvious, but it is without prejudice to the fact that we do have to do it from the additional budget that exists. Then I have one more... No, I already answered that. Mr President, I think I am at the end of my reply. No...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u200	Now the Minister knows again...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u201	Yeah, well, I remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u202	...because Mrs. Hermans is at the interrupting microphone. Do you remember?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u203	Yeah, I remember. It's about voting and access to the voting booth. Mrs Hermans made a very good distinction between help in voting and help in the content of voting. Mrs Hermans rightly says: with these two of course you have to be very careful, because before you know it you are in the field of influence. Mrs Hermans asks whether informing of an intellectually limited question might actually add Mrs Ellemeet to the discussion that Mrs Ollongren is having with the Election Council and with the College of Human Rights. I do think that some intellectually limited people should be involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u204	My question was something else. I can imagine that, throughout the electoral process, how it all works and where you make a choice, the provision of information to the target group that Mrs Ellemeet is calling for in her motion might be even better. Your colleague is going to investigate the support that I have expressed my doubts about. Could the question of whether there is room for improvement in the provision of information also become part of that letter and research?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u205	Yeah, that's what I meant, to be honest. That seems logical to me, because there is already an important part of the improvement envisaged. It's not just about the help in that voting booth. It is all about informing us about what the elections are about and at all about information on the way to those elections. I think it would be a good thing if this were to be involved, because that would also facilitate the accessibility of the voting process. So sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u206	Thank you. That concludes this debate. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 7:45 p.m.
