ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u1	We will begin with oral questions today. Mrs Karabulut, on behalf of the SP Group, is the first questioner. Her questions are addressed to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and are about the report that Turkish artillery shoots Kurds in Syria. I call Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. While Syrian citizens and millions of refugees crave peace, NATO ally Turkey is causing a new war in Syria, in a region. Three days ago, Turkey started a war against Afrin, the Kurdish enclave in northwest Syria under the control of the Syrian Democratic Forces. Over a hundred Kurdish targets have already been hit by the Turkish F-16s, with civilian casualties. There have also been counter-attacks with missiles just across the border in Turkey, with one dead and several wounded. Unacceptable and incomprehensible, Mr President! How cruel and cruel it is that the Kurdish men and women who are fighting at the front are now being attacked by a NATO ally. The world has seen for years that brave Kurds in Syria are fighting against the IS monsters. It is now up to the world and this minister to show solidarity with the Kurds and condemn this illegal, aggressive attack by the Turks on Syria, not least because the Turks apparently see a greater enemy in a democratic, secular neighbor than in the terror militias of the jihadist IS. You would say: all the reasons for this minister, the EU and NATO to stop Erdogan. None of that. After the Russians, they too have now given their soft words the green light for this policy of war, even though this is contrary to international law. As far as the minister and the international community are concerned, the Kurds are apparently allowed to be sacrificed in a dirty geopolitical game of the Russians, Iran and Assad on the one hand, the Americans and warring allies on the other. Everyone lets the Kurds, everyone lets the Syrians go. Democracy and peace if possible, dictatorship and war where necessary: is that NATO's new slogan? Mr. Chairman. I would ask this Minister to condemn this illegal attack.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u3	I now turn to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One question: to condemn this attack. But first a few introductory words, as Mrs Karabulut has also said them clearly. She calls it an "illegal attack" that violates international law. The cabinet is very concerned about this attack, because we have fought and continue to fight with ISIS, to which the Syrian Defence Forces, of which YPG is part, have also made an important contribution. In no way should the Turkish attack on Afrin lead to distractions from that struggle. 'In violation of international law' is the question. In the meantime, the Turkish Government has also provided NATO with information on the attack, informed us and NATO and invoked the UN Charter Article 51: the right to self-defense, in which there has actually been attacks in Turkey and attacks against Turkey and in which Turkey indicates that these attacks have been formed partly from the Afrin region. We are also saying that we do not have an independent position to say whether that is certainly true or not. But the appeal that the Turks make to that international law article is at least grounded. So we cannot now label this attack as illegal and in violation of international law. We have been promised by the Turks that they will keep us informed through NATO about developments and information. I can only condemn Mrs Karabulut's request if it is contrary to international law. However, we urge the Turkish Government to be cautious, proportionate and not jeopardise the fight against ISIS and the fight against the Assad regime with this action. We will continue to monitor that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u5	The minister won't convict. I have heard these words, that it would be self-defense and that they should be reluctant, from different sides. But the fact is that at the moment there is no evidence that the YPG would have attacked Turkey from Afrin. If that is the case, it must be delivered. One more point, NATO. If we look at what NATO stands for, it is promoting freedom, shared values such as individual freedom, human rights, democracy and the rule of law. At present, there is no international legal basis and/or evidence, let alone an international mandate for this attack. The attack from a neighbor's nothing is illegal. The task of this minister in our Constitution, but also in accordance with the UN Charter, is precisely to safeguard peace and security. I would like to ask this Minister the following question. What proof does the Minister have of the fact that the YPG would have attacked the Turks? Ankara, we all know, regards the PYD and the YPG as the only one of its allies as a terrorist organization. What are the concrete, factual justifications and evidence for this qualification? What policies and actions have led to them being classified as such?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u6	There's no evidence and there's no judgment. I took that up in the first answer. I have indicated that there is certainly grounds for the Turkish claim that there are attacks on Turkish territory. There have been attacks, there have been attacks. But I have already said at first that we do not have sufficient proof of the one, that it is certainly true, or of the other, that it is certainly not true. As long as that situation occurs, you can't proceed to a conviction. That is why we are very concerned and have asked the Turks to keep us informed, so that we can hopefully make that assessment at a later date. Second. I very much agree that NATO stands for this. That is also why we need to take the right steps internationally. Third. There are strong indications that the YPG is very closely associated with the PKK. The PKK, both military and political, has been identified by the Netherlands and by Europe as a terrorist movement. That's what's going on here. As much as the Dutch Government is concerned about this development, this leads away from the struggle we are fighting in Syria and it distracts from the struggle against the regime of Assad, which can benefit from this, the YPG is not for nothing an organisation that the Netherlands has not supported, nor non-lethal support, because of human rights violations that we have seen there too. Let me give you an example. In the region of Afrin, where the incidents are now taking place, the YPG has intervened at some point. The Free Syrian Army was partially driven out there. There, for example, the corpses of 60 Free Syrian Army fighters have been publicly dragged through the streets by the YPG. So let's avoid sketching an image here as if the YPG were innocent lambs. It is a group that has made an important contribution to the fight against IS. But like everything else in this region, there are two sides of the mirror that we need to keep looking at. It is therefore also important that, before we reach a verdict on Turkey, we first establish whether it is justified. So far there is no reason to put aside the Turkish claim that the right of self-defense can be applied here. We have to establish that first. Again, I understand the concerns. They're justified. That is why we have so firmly said to the Turks 'boys, reserved, proportionate, beware', but condemning it is a step too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u7	Finalizing, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u8	I note that there are a number of facts. That is that the YPG is an ally, an important ally, of this minister. The United States is at war and on the ground the people of YPG are fighting against ISIS. They're fighting it. It's an ally. Two. At the moment, there is no evidence whatsoever that the Minister also says for this illegal attack by Turkey in Syria. Three. To this end, the UN Security Council (UNSC) has been set up to prevent countries from operating on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u10	Finally, Mr President. Those who remain silent at the moment approve the illegal acts, but also Turkey's aggression and policy of repression, and that is disappointing to me. I ask the Minister to seek advice from the external international legal adviser on this point. Can this be what Turkey does, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u11	Mr. Chairman. We discussed this in the Security Council. France has made a request to this effect, supported by the Netherlands. We in the Security Council have expressed our concerns and called for restraint and proportionality. Moreover, the Turkish Government informed the UN Security Council that it was going to take this step at the time it was taken. So those steps have been taken in international law. I keep saying what I said at first: we have no firm evidence that Turkey is absolutely entitled to invoke this article, but we certainly have no evidence in the other direction, namely that they are not allowed to do so. As long as that is the case, as a government, we cannot condemn it internationally, no matter how much I understand Mrs Karabulut's concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mr Ten Broeke, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mr. Chairman. Solidarity with the Kurds, very important. Where was the SP when coalition partners in NATO attacked Raqqa to disarm Kurds, attacked Kobani to disarm Kurds, attacked Tikrit to disarm Kurds, attacked Mosul to disable Kurds? Then I didn't hear the SP. I couldn't, because the SP was against it. Now it's Afrin. It is indeed very necessary that we look at what is happening there in this case, NATO ally Turkey. I would like to ask the Minister if he wishes to call upon Secretary-General Stoltenberg in NATO, which is the platform where that should be done, to have Turkey provide more clarity. I believe that this is necessary from an international legal point of view and also because we do not want to be involved in a war that is not ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mr Ten Broeke, you know that in the case of oral questions the questions are about what the Minister says and that they are not meant to invite colleagues in between to respond. But you have already done so, so I now give Mrs Karabulut the floor to rule on you. It is not the intention, but you know that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u15	I know that very well and, of course, I have to wait and see if you will allow the debate, so I thought I would take an advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u16	No, a debate goes by majority of the Chamber. We'll see about that later. Mrs Karabulut, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u17	In itself, I can very much appreciate this from Mr Ten Broeke. Apparently, the VVD supports this illegal attack by the Turks, just as the VVD supported the illegal war in Iraq that led to the creation of the IS. If we had not, the Kurds and the other oppressed peoples would not have been in this position at all. May I remind you that Mr Ten Broeke did not save the Kurds, but that this was mainly the Kurdish struggle itself to this day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u18	No, Mr. Ten Broeke. I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u19	The Minister's answer is interesting, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u20	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u21	Mr. Chairman. If you don't mind, I'll answer my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u22	I think that's very wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u23	Mr Ten Broeke asked if the government could ask Mr Stoltenberg as Secretary-General of NATO to send more information to the Turks. That request has been made. That is what we did this morning in NATO, and that is what we have been promised. The Deputy Secretary-General is going to visit Turkey this week and the Turks have promised that they will continue to inform NATO of this operation. I would like to add that we are actually seeing two wars, to use that heavy word for a moment. We see a war on the ground, but we also see a media war, and there's a big difference between that in our first observations. The way in which it is displayed in the media, including in Turkey itself, is far more large-scale than the actual commitment we have seen so far, so we will also have to look at how that operation takes shape physically. If the Turkish government really wants to take over the region of Afrin, it will require large-scale, genuinely large-scale deployment of the Turkish army. The question remains whether this is actually the case. So we also need to keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u24	We know that the President of Turkey has already announced that he intends to create a buffer zone, that he intends to take Afrin, and that he intends to support the Free Syrian Army, a partner of the previous cabinet, and I assume also of this minister, in order to attack Afrin. Those are all signals. If you ignore Article 51 of the UN Charter, then there is a violation of international law, because there has been no long-term attack on Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u25	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u26	I would like to support Mrs Karabulut's plea for an international consultant to look into this. My question is: what does the Minister think of the Americans' plan to de-escalate and see if a border control mission between Turkey and the Kurds could be set up in Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u27	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u28	Yeah, the Americans' plan. Frankly, when the Americans announced that they wanted to turn into such a border control force or whatever you might call it, it did not seem to us to be de-escalating. The question is also whether such a solution is really going to create a situation for Turkey that it wants to withdraw. We must also note from the current developments on the ground that the Americans are not present in Afrin. They have also made their statements not about Afrin, but about the region on the other side of the Euphrates, and there is no question of any intervention. Afrin, we must also realise, is a region where a significant Arabic part of the population of Syria lived. 100,000 of them are now in refugee camps and have been expelled. Like everything else in Syria, this is extremely complex. It is not possible to say very one-dimensionally who is right and who is wrong. Unfortunately everyone is a beg, but every now and then everyone also has an excuse to do something. As far as the international consultant is concerned, there is little point in asking for advice now, as the information is still insufficient. And, frankly, if there is clear evidence of all kinds of attacks or clear evidence that there aren't, I think we ourselves are perfectly capable of making that judgment. This is not a question of unclear judgment. It's just that at the moment we don't have enough information to make a final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u29	This Minister is quite right to say that the Turkish invasion is worrying. Of course there is a distinction between a media war and a real war on the ground, but let us note that this media war also has consequences. Kurdish fighters are currently leaving front lines against ISIS. So it's distracting from the fight against that barbaric IS. My question to the Minister is what Turkey says on this argument. Can the Minister also put this argument into the NATO meeting that is to follow?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u30	It is a very justified observation by Mr Sjoerdsma of D66 that this has an impact. That is precisely why we expressed our deep concern about this yesterday in the letter to the Chamber. We have also transferred them to the Turkish Government. We have also said this in NATO. Moreover, this is widely shared in the NATO context. Whether it is right that Turkey should act on the basis of self-defense in Northern Syria, that is to say. Whether or not it is justified.............................................................................................................................................................................................. Turkey claims that IS is present in Afrin and that that is why it intervenes. The question is to what extent that is a legitimate claim, but the need remains to fight IS and prevent, while the YPG, the Turkish army and the Free Syrian Army are fighting each other, IS comes up again as a kind of third dog that runs off with its leg. That is what we have in mind, and so is NATO. That is what we continue to point out to our Turkish allies, because that would be the worst outcome of this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u31	In recent years, IS has carried out several heavier attacks in Turkey. At that time I did not hear Turkey say: now we are going to wipe the north of Syria completely clean; we are raving IS out of it! That didn't happen. That makes the story of what is happening with the Kurds in Afrin seem to be hypocritical at the very least. This hypocrisy is furthered by the fact that there is no convincing plausible evidence that attacks have taken place against Turkey from Afrin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u32	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u33	I'm going to the question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u34	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u35	That's not plausible. You should at least demand that it be made plausible. If it's not made plausible, then a conviction is definitely in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u36	Turkey has already intervened in another region in the past because of security problems that have occurred. So the picture that's being sketched here isn't quite right. We know that the PKK is active in Turkey as a terrorist organisation, that there are strong links between the YPG and the PKK, which brings great concern to the Turkish Government, and that it also responds strongly to this. There's no doubt about it. This will undoubtedly have played a role here. We continue, as I said to Mr Sjoerdsma, to urge the Turkish Government to react proportionally, with restraint and with regard to the fight we are fighting there, namely against IS, and in view of the fact that we are not going to implicitly strengthen the Assad regime through this kind of struggle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u37	I would just like to respond to the Minister's words that we actually have two wars next to each other. That is precisely what calls for a very critical approach to Turkey. I ask for the Minister's response, because to the UN and NATO, Turkey says nicely that it uses Article 51 and that it defends itself, without providing proof immediately. On the other hand, Erdogan says in the media to his own audience: we do this because 55% of the inhabitants of Afrin are Arabs and only 35% Kurds; they came later, so we give Afrin back to the Arabs. That is a very different argument from self-defense. Are you taking that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u38	Of course, we also listen to what is being said in the media, but as very often, especially in the region in question, there are a lot of things being said in the media and, in the end, you have to look at what is actually happening and what is being presented to us. The reports made by the Turkish Government and, as Mr Van Helvert correctly stated here, are of course not helping. We have also said to them: is this the real motive or does it play with other things? They rely on Article 51 of the UN Charter. There's land for that. It's not like there's a complete lack of evidence. There have been demonstrably attacks on Turkey. There is insufficient evidence that the number of 700, which they claim, is correct. But the fact that there have been attacks and attacks is beyond question. That claim has a clear foundation. I go along with Mr Van Helvert with the question whether it is mixed with other motives. We have also taken note of this. We will continue to ask the Turkish authorities about this. It is not to be ruled out that this is the case. This is without prejudice to the fact that Article 51 may indeed constitute an international legal basis for intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u39	The longer the answer takes, the more I get confused. I commend the Minister for saying that there is no judgment until there is sufficient information. May I paraphrase the Minister? In the beginning, I heard the Minister say that although the Turks have said that there is evidence, we cannot verify it. In the last sentence, I hear him say: there is evidence. So my first question is: have the Turks been able to demonstrate convincingly that they have reason to invoke Article 51? And two...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u40	No, one question, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u41	...what else is the Minister going to do to actively ask for evidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u42	No, no, the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u43	Mr President, I can now choose which of the two I answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u44	That's always difficult when you ask too many questions at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u45	That first point is the most important. I state that there is sufficient ground to justify the Turkish claim. Evidence is a second. So enough ground: there have been attacks, there have been attacks. Obviously, there's no discussion about that. Whether that's enough evidence to call in good Dutch wholeheartedly Article 51 is a second. We have asked the Turks to provide more information. But there is no discussion that there is a certain basis for it, because there have been attacks and attacks. Whether, in the end, the final judgment of international law on Article 51 is 'yes, this is absolutely right' is too early to say, because we need more information for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u46	Second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u47	And what is the Minister going to do in concrete terms to get this possible burden of proof on the table? What concrete actions, when and how will he inform the Chamber about them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u48	We have now taken these concrete actions. We in the UN Security Council, in NATO, have asked our Turkish ally to continue to provide the information so that we can further strengthen our judgement on the basis of that information. They have promised that, and we expect that to happen. Again, we will also have to see how this operation develops. The image that the outside world has on a large scale of what is happening is a different one than what we are actually seeing happening at the moment. The question remains as to whether we really intend to take over the whole region. A second question is whether they are capable of doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u49	And inform the Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u50	If there is information that is relevant to this discussion, then of course we will inform the Chamber, because even without the question I had the impression that this is a very important subject for the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u51	Maybe two things that still have a little bit of a twist in this debate. First of all, the Minister says that it is too early for me to condemn or not, because I do not really know whether Turkey is right to invoke the right to self-defense. Of course, that's strange: first you're gonna invade somewhere and then you're gonna see if that's right. Wouldn't it be better if that were the other way around? And if we don't know that, isn't it strange to rely solely on information that we're about to get from the Turks, after all, a party in this matter? Couldn't the U.S. help us out a little?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u52	To be honest, I would find it strange if we did it the other way around, as Mr Van Ojik seems to suggest. Then you judge a country first and then say: oh sorry, you were actually right. Because that would be the consequence. I don't think we should want to. I can assure Mr Van Ojik that we will not only look at information received from the Turkish authorities, but that other sources of information, which are also available to us, will of course also be used to reach our verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u53	Mr Van Ojik, second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u54	I do not think I expressed myself quite clearly, at least the Minister did not fully understand me. The interesting thing about this issue is not when the Netherlands condemns it. The important thing is when Turkey invades. The Minister says: they have been invaded, I cannot yet condemn it, and I do not know whether or not I will be able to do so in the future, because there is not enough evidence yet. Well, it would be a good thing if we were to shape our international relations on the basis of that Zijlstradoctrine in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u55	Then I didn't properly assess the question. I would not like to make this a Zijlstradoctrine, because that would be an extremely annoying doctrine. I have not for nothing indicated that we see that there is clear ground for the claim of the Turkish authorities on the basis of Article 51. That's one thing. That's what I just pointed to the PvdA. We will never rely solely on the first information, but we will also see if there is more information and more evidence for it. It is undoubtedly the case that there is first of all a strong link between the YPG and the PKK. The latter is, also in the Netherlands and Europe, a terrorist organisation. Secondly, there have been unmistakably attacks on Turkey and attacks in Turkey. That is indeed the case. In this way, the government's basic attitude is that there is clear ground for the Turkish claim to Article 51. Then there's a second case. We have to look a little further than that, perhaps that is the Zijlstradoctrine.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's why I'm not going to sentence you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u56	As far as we are concerned, this is not a battle between Turks and Kurds, but between Turkey and the terrorist organisation PKK. The Minister explained that the YPG is closely related to the terrorist organisation PKK. We often see the spark skipping to the Netherlands. Last night there was a fight at Schiphol. I understand that windows were thrown in last night at a Turkish Islamic association in Rotterdam. I would therefore ask the Minister, together with his colleague in the Ministry of Justice and Security, to ensure that the moods in the Netherlands remain calm and to take the necessary measures to protect organisations and individuals involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u57	It is a justified appeal not to let this skip to the Netherlands. This is not a conflict between Turks and Kurds. Nor should it be in the Netherlands. There is, of course, strong contact within the cabinet to ensure that this does not escalate further in the Netherlands. Of course, my colleague from JenV is also looking at it. That would be the worst possible outcome to this very regrettable situation in Northern Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-2.u58	Thank you.
