ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. In particular, I would like to welcome the people in the gallery who are here today in connection with this debate. I give the floor to Mr Alkaya as the first speaker. He is speaking on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, we're going back to 1994. The first tranche of PTT shares has just been brought to the market when a newspaper writes: "Privatised public enterprises need to improve their service to the public. (...) So they must actively go after the customers, because without customers there will be no revenue. Maybe we can still win the honorable clientele, but it is much harder to keep it. Then both the product and the service must be of excellent quality." With this childish thought, many public services were left to the market in the Netherlands during that period, including postal delivery. The market would discipline the postmen and make everything cheaper and better, was the thought of many Cabinets and successive parties who participated, such as the CDA and the VVD. The opposite is true, as the SP and the postmen predicted. The opposite has also proved to be true. In order to win the competition, the main savings have been made on working conditions. Insecure contracts, low working hours, piece wages and even salaries below the minimum wage were the result. That was humiliating. At the same time, the number of mailboxes decreases, delivery is reduced and stamps become increasingly expensive. Also, shopkeepers with a PostNL point are not allowed to offer services from other companies to consumers. What do you mean, market forces? The market doesn't work in the mail. Of course, we have all started to send fewer and fewer letters. We've been sending more apps, more messages and more e-mails. But the necessity and importance of physical mail remained. I'm sure you will for the time being. Certain messages will be delivered through the mail for years to come. Not only Christmas cards, but also payment memories, mourning cards and registered letters. Then it doesn't help to let multiple poorly paid, exploited mail delivery guys with a half-empty bag walk through the streets. A quarter of a century later, the conclusion is that the two largest postal companies, PostNL and Sandd, must go together to maintain a proper postal delivery. The market hasn't worked, which the postmen predicted for a long time. So more cooperation is allowed. That's good. The SP supports this direction. I can see that the process of privatisation has also taken years since the 1990s. It would be an illusion to now think that the reversal of the failed market experiment will go off the rails. For example, I doubt whether the Competition Authority will approve more cooperation or consolidation. The misconception that the market can make everything better and cheaper is as vivid as it was in 1994. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to use, if necessary, the special powers she has under Article 47 of the Competition Act if the Competition Authority is to be obstructed. Is the Secretary of State prepared to clarify this in advance and to remove that uncertainty? However, I also have a question about the future. For why should we allow an organisation with a public task which will soon have more than 95% of its market share and therefore not really be subject to competition, to make profits and to distribute dividends to its shareholders? The Chamber has already called on the cabinet in a motion to involve the possibility of turning the postal delivery into a public task in the postal dialogue. But this is hardly mentioned in the opinion of the postal dialogue. Why not? Has this option been considered seriously? While the shareholders have been paid millions in dividends in recent years, the employees have had to deal with a devaluation of their profession, which has barely earned a living wage. There is a need for clarity as soon as possible for the staff in this sector. What is the Secretary of State going to do to prevent redundancies and improve working conditions in the event of consolidation? I call on her to make agreements with all the employers of PostNL, Sandd and the small regional companies to offer these postal service providers a future perspective. PostNL will then no longer have to employ office staff for delivery and we can take a first step towards dignity for this profession. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. I now give the floor to Mrs Bromet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. The post belongs to everyone, even if you don't know what a postal dialogue is or what "consolidation" means. Even if you don't know that the postal market shrinks 10% every year, you still have a mailbox at home and you are assured that the letter you throw in the mailbox will be delivered the next day throughout the Netherlands. The digitalization, the ease with which you can communicate via e-mail, WhatsApp or Skype, ensures that the mailbox always becomes army at home. At the same time, digitalisation has led us to go shopping differently. The internet purchases are driven into our streets with vans and we, consumers, know the delivery people of those packages as well as our trusted mailman. In the letter sent by the Secretary of State to the Chamber on the future of the post, she writes that the regular mail will disappear in the long term and that e-commerce-driven growth in the parcel market will occur. At the same time, it assumes that the postal and package markets are two completely separate markets. But can these two developments be separated? Do they not influence each other any more than the Secretary of State is now describing? For example, what about flat mail items like the book I order at bol.com? In response to the problem, a postal dialogue was set up which concluded that the two major remaining players in the postal market, PostNL and Sandd, should proceed together. GroenLinks basically agrees with this. We are not opposed to market forces, because we believe healthy competition can bring benefits for consumers and sustainable innovations. At the same time, every Dutchman can see that it may not be as convenient and efficient as the postmen riding each other through the Dutch streets. The course of the Secretary of State therefore has our support for the time being, but I still have a number of questions. First of all, how does the Secretary of State think the Authority will react to the planned plans? Is it also referring to the SP in the event of a negative outcome willing to use its power to continue despite a negative opinion of the ACM? How does the Secretary of State prevent PostNL from abusing its monopoly position? How does it ensure that mail remains accessible and affordable for everyone in the Netherlands? Then the parcel market. In practice, the parcel market is becoming more and more like the postal market. In cities, hubs are created where packages are collected. From there they are spread around the city by bike. The parcel delivery guys are getting more and more like mailmen. However, several market players are active in the package market. I have a few questions for the Secretary of State about this. Will there be a moment when the mail has become so small that the parcel market can take over? When's that moment? How will market forces take place? I have seen as an alderman that the many vans with packages that drive through our streets also cause annoyance and nuisance. The question is also how sustainable all this is. GroenLinks believes that, in addition to the current postal dialogue, consideration should be given to the development of the parcel market. Does the Secretary of State agree with GroenLinks? And what steps is it going to take to look at the future of the package market? Mr. Chairman. They're sitting in the stands, and they deserve some words too: the postmen. In the village where the Secretary of State and I both lived for a long time, postman Eric is a welcome guest. He makes a chat with people who sometimes don't speak to anyone else, he swings happy when he drives by and when it's sintering season, some people hang a chocolate letter at his door. Market forces can lead to lower prices, better services and more sustainability, but should never be at the expense of the working conditions of the postal service. Can the Secretary of State assure me that postmen after the merger of PostNL and Sandd can be assured of pleasant working conditions and good working conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. The liberalisation of the postal market has brought us a lot since 2009. PostNL became an efficient market player instead of a loss-making state company. Companies and consumers were given freedom of choice and benefited from it, in terms of the stamp price, because it remained relatively affordable, and in terms of quality, because it remained excellent. But the postal market has been under pressure for years. We send fewer letters, more e-mails and especially more packages. That's because we're shopping more and more online. It won't be long now whether the parcel delivery will make more money than with the mail delivery. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to my main point. D66 would have preferred to have the debate today on the wider delivery market rather than zooming in on the future narrow part of it, the post office. But the shrinkage now requires a solution. According to the postal dialogue, this solution is a consolidation in the postal market. My party is a party that wants to avoid market dominance as much as possible because we see the importance of competition and the danger of a monopolist being barren and lazy. But it is not the politics that must force consolidation. That's where parties have to figure it out themselves. It is then up to the ACM to assess whether this is and can be done, whether or not by examining the significant market power regime. Therefore, my question to the Secretary of State: what if the ACM rejects a takeover of Sandd by PostNL? I'm taking that seriously. Then what's her plan B? I'm coming back to that wider delivery market. The postal dialogue has, as the name says, focused on the post. But since the postal market is about to become part of that wider delivery market, it seems logical to me that we should also look at the parcel market. That market is growing, that market has a future and that market can be affected by the decisions we are taking on the postal market. Does the Secretary of State consider that the postal dialogue has taken sufficient account of its impact on the parcel market? Mr. Chairman. D66 also wants the ACM to look closely at access regulation in case of consolidation. The monopolist must not take an anticompetitive attitude and make it impossible for competitors to become effective competitors. That danger is now lurking. At the beginning of this month, the CBb has destroyed an ACM decision on access and tariff obligations. As a result, PostNL can decide for itself who is granted access and at what price. That is absolutely undesirable. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about this? Will it also take this into account in the future discussion on the wider market?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u7	I see interrupts, but I'll let you finish your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u8	Okay. Finally, Mr President, the stamp price. D66 doesn't want this one shooting through the roof. The Secretary of State states in her letter that under unchanged policies read: no consolidation will double the stamp price again. Do I interpret it correctly that consolidation excludes a doubling? If not, how is it going to prevent the monopolist from throwing up prices? Because even if everything gets more digital, Aunt Annie needs to be able to keep sending her Christmas cards. That was the case in 2009 and it will remain so for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u9	I hear Mrs Van Eijs making a plea for the free market, and that is permitted. D66 is a liberal party. But a free market only works when there is a truly functioning free market. What is Mrs Van Eijs' assessment on this point? To what extent does there exist a free market for the mail that we are talking about here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u10	Well, that's limited, of course. That also came from the postal dialogue. In order to maintain the UPD, i.e. the mandatory letter post, and to maintain its quality, we need to look at consolidation. The conclusion may be that the free market in the Netherlands is, of course, very difficult to sell.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u11	If that market is so limited and shrinking, then that market only works with a good, fair, fair market leader. Who, according to Mrs Van Eijs, is the market master who has to act here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u12	The market master must act insofar as we ultimately have an objective in that free market and that is to ensure that the people who deliver the mail can do so under normal and good conditions, that the quality of the mail delivery remains in order and that it is also a little affordable. That is ultimately the goal and we need to see how we get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u13	D66 doesn't really say anything about the postmen and mailmen and I find that striking. D66 indicates that competition has worked because quality would have increased and prices would have increased to a limited extent. My question to D66 is this: if we see what has happened to the postal servicemen, who in some cases are even paid below the minimum wage, does that amount to the quality gain and the limited price increase she is talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mr Alkaya says that I say that quality has increased. Above all, I wanted to stress that the mail is still very well delivered in the Netherlands, that everyone still puts his letter in the mailbox and that sometimes it is there the next day. That is of course very nice in a market that is shrinking. The fact that the market is shrinking and that we are sending fewer and fewer letters means that we have to do something. So it weighs against it? No, I just want people with a contract of employment to get paid properly. I believe that you have already followed debates on this subject in the areas of Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u15	Doesn't D66 see that one-on-one is connected? The fact that mail deliverers are paid under the minimum wage has to do with that competition one-on-one. And the profits that would be on the other side are minimal and, as far as I am concerned, totally absent. How can you conclude that the competition has brought many beautiful things to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u16	I think Mr Alkaya ignores the fact that we no longer live ten, fifteen or twenty years ago, when everyone did everything by letter. It's a very different time and we have to look for other models in it, but all of that doesn't change the fact that the postmen just have to get paid. We have taken steps on this. The Secretary of State has begun to maintain the 80% principle. We think that's a good move.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u17	There are only two parties that have warned about this, almost ten years ago. That was the SP, the Socialist Party, Mrs Gesthuizen, who unfortunately is no longer here. I was there then, too. We are the only parties that have warned about this and then I have three questions. Why didn't D66 listen to those warnings for everything that comes out now? Because we have also been right about the problems with immigration and we have been right about the nationalisation of the banks. Every time, the PVV is years ahead. We're always laughed at and ignored and over and over again we're right. My second question is whether you are now prepared not to look at the author of the motion, which party it is doing or which spokesperson, but to look at the operative part of the motion, especially if that is in the national interest. And the third question is whether you agree with me that this should be a chefsache, that the Prime Minister should get involved in this. This is also happening in other countries around us. This is a very important case. I would have liked to have answered that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u18	Three questions. I always listen when someone says something. I may not always hear it right, but I always listen. So I'll also listen to what the PVV has to say. The second question was whether we are not looking at the author of the motion, but at the content. Yeah, I think so. I'm one of the contents. I'm looking at the contents of the motion. The third question was whether the Prime Minister should take over. I think the Secretary of State has just come to the bar and we need to see what kind of plans she's made. She has written a comprehensive letter with a number of plans and steps she wants to take in the postal market, and we want to follow that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u19	I think that is very honest and correct answers. I hope and count on it, too. This colleague hasn't been in the Chamber for an extremely long time, so I'm just counting on support. 'Cause over and over and over again, we're right. They don't call me "nostradionus" for nothing. I just always get right when I'm predicting something ten years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mrs Van Eijs has a whole speech, including on the importance of competition. I have two questions about that. Does Mrs Van Eijs recognise that much of the competition has been achieved over the backs of the people? It is unclear to me whether or not D66 supports the Secretary of State's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u21	I think I have just said, perhaps in the answer, that we support the steps taken by the Secretary of State, that we want to see how they work out and that we are simply following the process. This is about privatisation. I think this is a special market; this is not the telecoms market, for example, but this is really a different market. What has happened has made sure that the price of the stamp is still available. This does not alter the fact that people's working conditions must be in order, but that is also one of the conditions laid down at the time. That has not been met, and that is why steps are now being taken, and I support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u22	Thank you. Mr Moorlag would like to ask you another question, Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u23	I do listen with some surprise to the praises of D66 on the market and on competition. The people who are now sitting in the public gallery are increasingly feeling that they are being squeezed out like lemons. Furthermore, the prospect of the postal sector is simply very poor and continuity is under pressure. Then consolidation is the only solution for the postal market, isn't it? Does D66 share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u24	I have already said that the postal dialogue shows that consolidation is the way forward. However, we regret that market forces have not brought what we wanted here, namely good conditions, mail that arrives neatly, the quality that is in order and an affordable stamp for anyone who simply wants to send mail. Those wishes are always the same. Those three things, that's what we're aiming for. Market forces in themselves are not a sacred grail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u25	I'm glad to hear that. The question of restrictions of competition. Mrs Van Eijs asked the Secretary of State: if there are restrictions, what is the plan B? My question to D66 is: what is the plan B of D66? Do you agree that the public interest in this is so great that competition law provisions may have to depart?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u26	I really think it is an extreme option to say: we are putting aside any competition. So first I want to see if we can't achieve the three goals I mentioned in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u27	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mr. Chairman. It has already been put forward today: the number of delivered mail items has fallen dramatically since 2009, has been halved. The CDA therefore welcomes the fact that the Secretary of State has considered the possibilities of making the postal market future-proof. With a view to a fair economy, the CDA can also support the three policy objectives set by the Secretary of State, namely a good quality-price ratio, affordability and accessibility, as well as protection of working conditions. The CDA therefore welcomes the decision of the Secretary of State to maintain that at least 80% of workers must be covered by a contract of employment with the postal carrier. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Oudeman, who has led the postal dialogue, recommends that a far-reaching form of cooperation or consolidation is the only option that will provide enough to ensure an affordable universal postal service for the future. The CDA understands this line of thinking. We think competition is good in principle, because it stimulates creativity, lower prices and innovation. This has created an efficient service and has transformed PostNL from a loss-making state company to an efficient logistics service provider. However, with the current sharp contraction in the market, stimulating a lot of competition leads to inefficiency, cherry picking, or "take out the cherries" and competition over the backs of the people working on that market. Several postmen are now running one after the other through the streets, with increasingly army bags and competition on working conditions. Due to the starting point of competition where it can and cooperation where it has to be done, the CDA sees opportunities to make a fair transition to the wider delivery market in such a way that tariffs and conditions should be reasonable for both PostNL and other postal operators and no longer encourage cherrypicking on the postal market. The CDA would like to hear from the Secretary of State what obstacles there are if market players wanted to proceed to a far-reaching form of cooperation or consolidation. Is the Secretary of State prepared to remove these obstacles? Does this mean that it wants to speed up legislation and regulations? The CDA is also interested in the possibilities for applying Article 47 if the ACM would reject a possible request for consolidation. Mr. Chairman. The CDA has long been calling for attention to the ever-increasing stamp price and ensuring the accessibility of mailboxes to vulnerable groups. We have asked several questions about this. A resident who simply wants to put a birthday card on the bus must be able to continue to do so at a reasonable price as regards the CDA. Can the Secretary of State confirm that it is expected that its proposed legislative and policy agenda will help to ensure that the stamp price will rise less quickly than would be the case under unchanged policies? In the case of mailboxes, we consider it important to ensure accessibility for vulnerable groups such as the elderly and the disabled, so that provision can be made for them as well. In a number of areas the removal of mailboxes leads to unrest. Can the Secretary of State indicate how it is possible to prevent mailboxes from disappearing in essential places? We are also concerned about the timely delivery of the letters. Last Christmas there were problems with timely delivery and now there are signs of this in the newspaper again. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether PostNL can continue to deliver letters in good time throughout the year or whether there is a structural problem? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u29	I actually want to ask a clarifying question. Do I now hear Mrs Van den Berg calling on the Secretary of State to implement Article 47? Or does she want to leave the ACM move first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u30	We are now only asking the Secretary of State what the possibilities are with regard to Article 47. But we assume that the ACM does its job first. But we do want to know what the possibilities would be for applying Article 47 if the ACM rejected a consolidation request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Graus, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u32	Mr. Chairman. I have just said it in the case of interruption: Mrs Gesthuizen of the Socialist Party and the undersigned of the Party for Freedom have been the only ones who have warned about this. We started it more than ten years ago, because I've been here almost thirteen years. I've always said this would be a failure, always. I have said many times about things; I have also warned the KLM about things that are happening now. I also warned against the nationalisation of banks. And we always get laughed at here, but we get right over and over and over again. I hope everyone wakes up sometime. Check out the Acts: I've always been right, always. So I want a little more listening to me now. That would be nice if I had the gift to always provide that. The volume decreases continue, processes change, those are all things that happen. It is about uncontrolled liberalisation in an uneven playing field, with unfair competition, because countries around us receive state aid. We've always said that we can't do that at all. Competition is simply going to destroy our beautiful postal company, the largest private employer in our country. Together with the Socialist Party, we have always stood up for the postmen, the mailmen who deliver them, indeed I hear quite few people about them because of weather and wind always ensure that we get everything on time. This should also be done a little more. We think affordability is important, security of life, reliability. I'm also looking at letter secret, medical mail, grief mail, you name it. But we also want as much work as possible to be maintained. We want to stand up for our postmen, who run for years through weather and wind for us and who are still so kind and helpful to show you the way and things like that. We should cherish those people a little more. We also want the mailboxes to be maintained. We have come up with a solution for this. For shrinking areas, my policy officer has developed a postmobile. I know Mr. Van der Veegte from VDL can build that postmobile. I know the CDA was still in favour of it back then. In the shrinking areas you could even drive those postmobiles around to help older people. And they could, for example, bring around medicines and stuff. That's a really good idea, too, so how's my post-mobile? Is it going to be in the shrinking areas, as a relatively cheap solution in any case? How sustainable is the current system? And is consolidation also the solution of the Secretary of State, the shepherd of the sheep? Tens of thousands of sheep in this case, including workers, and millions of citizens who are affected by it. Under what conditions, at what time? 'Cause it all has to be urgent. Madam President. Again, as far as I am concerned, PostNL should have simply remained a full state company. That's when you heard no one complaining. Then everything went well, too. This whole thing should never have happened. At all events, liberalisation and free market forces have failed almost everywhere, except for the telecoms market. Everything else hasn't worked out. What does this also mean for the rates? 'Cause the VVD used to take on me all the time. Mr. Elias was sitting there at the time, saying: yes, but the stamp is going to be cheaper. Then I said, "Mr. Elias, the stamp's gonna be even more expensive for Christmas next year." And it did. So even the only advantage the VVD predicted didn't come true. Sorry, Madam President, I see Mr. Weverling is trying to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u33	Yeah, I see it, too. I thought you were almost done. Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mr Graus says that state-owned companies work very well. I wonder if he can call it a well-functioning postal company in any part of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u35	There is, of course, unbridled liberalization everywhere. However, in the neighbouring countries, England and Germany, for example, there is still state aid. And I've been there... I am a little older than you are, although the people in the gallery wouldn't say that because of course I look a little younger than you, but I am a lot older, and I have seen that it was still a state-owned company. In fact, one of my uncles even once sat on the board of one of those departments. That was a very good company. The postman I used to know as a child, I found the most happy person there was. They were paid relatively well. They had relatively good working conditions. It's logical that there are also disadvantages to that box that are all about everything but when I envyed someone, it was always the postman. Back in the day, Pietje Puk became a mailman. Pietje Puk, did you know him, Mr. Weverling? Also my favorite book. That love was in there with me when I was a kid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u36	Mr Graus is a caress for the eye and also for the hearing. I thought you were gonna come up with Venezuela's mail company or something. Do you know that the Dutch postal market is one of the most efficient and functioning postal markets? I just wanted to bring that to your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u37	I'll share that with you. We often do not run first with everything unfortunately but that does not mean that we have to choose for a second best or something worse? That can't be a reason, can it? What does this mean for the rates? The ACM also looks at economic conditions and so on, but the State Secretary can look at the national interest. Is the Secretary of State prepared to initiate an article 47 procedure? Indeed, the ACM can reject that consolidation on the basis of those economic conditions. This is the shepherd of our national sheep. I'd love to... Mr. Weverling, there you are again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u38	Finish your sentence first. You wanted to say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u39	I would like the Prime Minister to get involved, as is the case in other countries. I do not want to say that it is now such an incredibly heavyweight, but a prime minister is, by definition, seen more as a heavyweight. Maybe that's what's gonna happen. I would also like a response from the Secretary of State to that. It is important to say that I have every confidence in the Secretary of State. I've been in the Chamber with her. I even went to the Toppers with her once, so you split up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u40	I don't need to know everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u41	No, no, no, you don't have to. So it does not have to do with a lack of trust, but I would nevertheless like to see a somewhat heavier delegation brought up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u42	I am jealous of Mr Graus, to be honest. But do I hear you say that the Secretary of State must apply Article 47 in advance, before the ACM has been able to do anything? We have an independent supervisory body. That's the ACM. I don't think it should be overruled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u43	Now Mr Weverling has not listened very carefully, because I explained to all the listeners and also the people at home that the ACM can reject it on the basis of economic conditions. I then asked the Secretary of State if she was prepared to use that article. That's what I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u44	So you're already taking an advance? You already want to know what the Secretary of State would do in case of rejection?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u45	Sure. That makes sense, because it concerns very important interests. Many workers and many citizens can be directly or indirectly affected by this. It's about millions of people. I always serve the national interest, Mr. Weverling. I'll take a lot of advance on that. Everything I have, I'll use for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u46	I would just like to clear up a misunderstanding, because Mr Weverling asks every spokesperson. Article 47 also provides that if the Authority has refused a licence, the Minister, or in this case the State Secretary to whom this has been delegated, may go there. There is therefore no question whatsoever of the Minister or the Secretary of State taking an advance on this. The Authority's Consumer & Market must first assess this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u47	So that was a clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u48	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. I'll give you a stuffed cake right away at the member's restaurant. Thank you for assisting me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u50	I tried to make that clear to Mr Weverling, but in a different way. But at least thanks for the support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u51	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Weverling on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u52	Mr. Chairman. If you want to send a ticket, you have to be sure that it comes to the right person in a reasonable time and that it doesn't cost you capital. That is important, because even though we all send less mail than before, they are the important, often emotional moments in our lives where we feel the need to communicate through the post. That is often at happy times, such as when a child is born or on birthdays, but also in sad cases, for example when we lose a loved one. All this mail is delivered by postmen, the men and women here in the gallery, who have an important role in the neighborhood and are always ready for a chat, in weather and wind. The VVD believes it is of the utmost importance that this post can continue to be sent and delivered in a good and efficient way in the future. At the same time, we can see that much has changed in Dutch mail delivery in recent years, especially in volumes. In 2009, some 5 billion postal items were sent a year, now that is barely half. This leads to intervention in the postal market, so that mail delivery can also be guaranteed in the coming years. We are pleased that the Secretary of State has taken this issue seriously and put forward proposals for the future of the postal market, because it will take some time for the postal market to enter into the so-called broad delivery market, where no distinction is made between letters and parcels. We find that different stakeholders in the postal dialogue have made their views and contributions valuable and necessary to ensure that in the coming years, everyone can rely on their mail being delivered at a reasonable price and efficiently. Mr. Chairman. The studies carried out and the results of the post-dialogue led by Mrs Oudeman show that cooperation on the so-called 'last mile' is the most fruitful option. Ultimately, postal delivery and proper implementation of the universal postal service must be guaranteed in the coming years. That's important. The other solutions that have been examined do not seem to weigh up enough. For the VVD it has become clear that consolidation is the best option for the coming years to ensure efficient and customer-friendly postal delivery. However, we still have a number of clarifying questions to the Secretary of State. Firstly, on the role of the ACM. In its letter of late June, the State Secretary indicated that she would like to make a request to the ACM regarding the assessment of future partnerships in the Dutch postal market. We all know the ACM as an independent body; we have just talked about Article 27. But as for the request she wants to make: what if the ACM has a different view? I'd like a reaction to that in a moment. We are also getting signals that this decision would lead to job losses among, among others, regional postal service providers. Could the Secretary of State clarify this? Mr. Chairman. As the Secretary of State indicated in her letter, the postal market will at some point enter the wider delivery market. Can the Commission explain the possibilities for cooperation in the postal market for the future wider delivery market and how can certain parties in the delivery market be prevented from being favoured or disadvantaged by consolidation in the postal market? Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with a word of thanks to all the stakeholders who have provided their vision and input in the discussion on the Dutch postal market in recent months and years. This has proved indispensable, especially in view of the unique situation in which the Dutch letter mail market is currently in place. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u53	Mr Weverling spoke warmly about the postal servicemen and the postal servicemen. That sounds good, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u55	But what does Mr Weverling think about the fact that almost 80 million in dividends were paid out by PostNL to shareholders last year, while the postmen are still taking action and have stopped to stop the introduction of the combi bundle?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u56	No dividend was paid between 2012 and 2015. In 2016, the dividend was €0.12 per share. In the end, the price of PostNL has declined mostly in recent years. In that respect, I do not endorse Mr Alkaya's story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u57	Nevertheless, Mr Weverling cannot avoid the contradiction that despite a fall in prices, shareholders have improved on it last year, they have received a total of €0.17 per share, which has been almost 80 million in total, while employees will soon have to sort mail on the street. The decline in working conditions is therefore continuing, precisely because of the market forces we are talking about. Does Mr Weverling not see that this is one-on-one? Shouldn't we remove those contradictions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u58	Look, a shareholder who, for example, bought €10,000 shares from PostNL in 2016 -- that's a lot of money -- two years later, he lost €1.316 on that. In that sense, I think we should be happy with investors in the beautiful Dutch company PostNL.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u59	If I understand correctly, Mr Weverling says at least, he acknowledges that consolidation in the letter mail market is inevitable. Does he therefore consider that the Secretary of State should do everything in his power to ensure that consolidation is a barrier to consolidation, even if the competition law precludes consolidation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u60	As I said in my speech, there are already possibilities in the current Competition Act. What matters now is that we want to make cooperation possible. The consumer is ultimately at the heart of the matter. He wants to go and needs to get the mail that is delivered at home, whether in Applescha in the north of the country or, for example, somewhere in Zeeland.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u61	If I understand correctly, I hear Mr Weverling say that he understands when the Secretary of State makes use of her competence under Article 47 of the Competition Act, because the public interest in the continuity of postal delivery in this case prevails over perhaps very strict, too strict competition rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u62	Mr Moorlag did not mention Rule 47 in the first stage of his interruption. He does that in the second part of his interruption. I am certainly not in favour of slinging Article 47 out of that law before the ACM has even said or found anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr Weverling referred to the wider delivery market and asked the Secretary of State. Does Mr Weverling himself have a vision of the future of that wider delivery market?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u64	Sure. In this sense, I believe that the delivery market is going to grow increasingly under the guidance of all kinds of e-commerce; you yourself have also mentioned parcel services. So that's going to be more and more integrated. The delivery market of mail is getting smaller and smaller. Now there are over 2 billion items of mail and that is definitely going down to 1 billion items of mail. It is therefore becoming more and more different packages that are being delivered. I do not rule out that in the long term pizzas and your packages with whatever you order at home will all go with you in the same bag or in the same van. In the end, of course, we are a few years ahead of that market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u65	And besides the pizzas, the letters?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u66	Yes. When I came to the Chamber a year and a half ago and dealt with the postal market, I was actually surprised that there was a separate postal logistics and a separate package logistics. I'd say one person goes to the front door, and that all works together. So it doesn't seem that way. It also appears that there is a separate regulation for the postal market and a separate regulation for the delivery market. In the end, therefore, we have to face the fact that this delivery market, led by all kinds of digitalisation, is about to take off. We're all gonna notice that. So logistics and regulation must be adapted to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u67	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u68	Last week, I was at the bar with two of my best friends. One of them is Martin. Martin is a postman at PostNL; he also has such a beautiful orange shirt. He had a bad day because it had rained. Then you know what day that must have been; I think it was Wednesday. Yes, I see nodding: it was Wednesday. But he said to me, "When the sun shines, I have the most beautiful profession you can have." Anyway, it shouldn't be 37°C; that's what I'm going to tell the people in the gallery. It's the postmen like Martin who make sure we can send each other real letters and cards, real signs of attention and compassion. These postmen see that the postal market and their jobs are under great pressure. This is not just about the shrinking market. In the First Chamber, the Roel Kuiper Committee gave its opinion on the independence and privatisation of public services. The conclusions have just been briefly and elegantly summarised by Mr Graus. The report states that public interests are more than the interests of the citizen in his role as an individual customer. We know that and yet we see that employers compete on wages and working conditions. We see here the market ing of the public interest with which, in our view, the Christian Union has fallen by a lower social threshold. That's gotta be different. The post-dialogue led by Mrs Oudeman came to a clear conclusion: large-scale consolidation gives the best future perspective. There are economies of scale by merging networks, the mail bags become fuller, the delivery costs per mail item go down and mailmen can pay a decent wage. I therefore welcome the direction taken by the Secretary of State in her letter. Let us ensure that the quality of universal postal services remains high. Let us protect the position of workers as quickly and as effectively as possible. The question is whether the ACM will approve the direction of consolidation. The ACM looks at the market with a very narrow short-term perspective, while we also want to take into account the social importance. Think, for example, of the sustainability initiatives of farmers that we want to give way to by allowing agreements in the chain. In this way, we also see that in the postal market, the ACM needs to look more broadly than only at the lowest price for the competitor. There are just other interests that are more important to us. My question to the Secretary of State is how it will protect the public interest when the ACM rejects consolidation. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that rejection of consolidation brings a lot of uncertainty for staff, for example, but also for PostNL's international position? The Secretary of State has previously reported that she will continue to take up the bill Boring UPD after the postal dialogue has been completed. How's this bill coming? How far along is she? Also in small villages and sparsely populated regions people are entitled to a mailbox and a post office at a reasonable distance. Older people and people with disabilities should continue to be able to use mail delivery at a low threshold. At the moment there is already a considerable austerity of the UPD, including the removal of mailboxes. The Old Man report notes that further austerity will yield little more. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that we are currently at the borders of the UPD? After all, the government agreement also provides for the SPD to be anchored at the current level of quality in rural areas and in shrinking regions. I also read in the Secretary of State's letter that the minimum requirements for the UPD fall into lower regulation, but that was already done in 2015 when this was delegated to an AMvB? By the way, the Christian Union was against it at the time. How does the Secretary of State see this in the light of the Kuiper Committee, which recommends that essential public services continue to be guaranteed by law? Finally, Mr President. Last week, the CBB destroyed the ACM's decision on access for other postal operators on the PostNL network. The Secretary of State has already announced that he will opt for a lighter form of access regulation. What does this statement mean for the plans for access regulation and significant market power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u69	I would also like to put the question to Mr Bruins. A number of parties have already mentioned it. At the time when the Authority would stop a merger or consolidation, do you agree with me that the Secretary of State should do everything in his power to ensure that it continues and, if necessary, use the powers conferred on it by Article 47 of the Competition Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u70	I don't want to rule out that option.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u71	That's very nice; it's already written down. Imagine that going on. I am quite happy with Mr Bruins' story. I have heard a few more anti-capitalist sounds from the Christian Union lately, and they are good for me. Mr Bruins can imagine that. What if we do this now? We will then have a private monopoly in which it is still allowed to make profits and pay dividends to shareholders, while there is no competition and the contradictions between employees and shareholders persist. Shouldn't we be able to think about making a real public service of postal delivery a step further?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u72	As far as the Christian Union is concerned, postmen are given a fair salary and the quality of mail delivery is not further reduced, as is shrinking regions as well as vulnerable people in shrinking regions. The aim is that we want to keep that and what is necessary for that, we must do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u73	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u74	Mr. Chairman. There's a lot at stake. It is not just a question of whether a child can be sure in a few years' time that the birthday card will be delivered to Grandma, but also of whether the 10,000 postmen still have a decent life and work in a few years' time. Smooth, reliable and affordable mail delivery is a great asset in this country. The post, especially the UPD, is an important provision. It is a public supply that we have entrusted to the market. The market isn't working perfectly. Adam Smith's invisible hand does not always lead to an optimal outcome for society. Then the government must intervene, and that must be done now. Mr. Chairman. It's just not going well. Margins are under pressure and profitability is declining. In this context, I am not very concerned about the shareholders, but I do notice that the budget pressure and the price pressure are very damaging to the working conditions of the people working in the postal sector. As far as continuity is concerned, too, there is a bad prospect. The position of the workers is under heavy pressure, and that is very important to me. Productivity and efficiency efforts weigh very heavily on the conditions of employment and on the working conditions of postal service providers. This simply leads to dehumanisation, to people turning into means of production. The professional is severely affected. Pride mail delivery guys feel like lemons being squeezed to the last drop. Mr. Chairman. It can't go on like this. The way things are going, it can't go on. We need to secure the delivery of mail for the future as a public service that is and remains reliable. A facility where tens of thousands of workers can have a decent job: decent work with decent working conditions and decent working conditions. Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the Secretary of State. She picked up the glove, went straight to work after her arrival and pro-actively operated. It has started the postal dialogue and that postal dialogue gives a crystal clear outcome. The letter mail market must be consolidated. That just means a merger of the biggest mail delivery companies. It's inevitable. My question to the Secretary of State is: how do we achieve it? I know the Secretary of State can't force a merger, but what is she going to do to promote consolidation? And how is she going to prevent the parties from staying in a surplace? How are we going to prevent competition law from becoming an obstacle? If that happens, will the Secretary of State avail himself of the powers conferred on it by Article 47 of the Competition Act? I think we need to clarify this now. I think that Mr Weverling leaves that in the air. In my opinion, not only do we have to crack today, but we also have to lay eggs today. It simply needs to be clarified for the sector. Indeed, the question of whether there are important reasons of general interest which prevail over competition rules has already been answered in the postal dialogue. The outcome is simply crystal clear. There's only one way, and that's consolidation, a merger of the big companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u75	I don't know who's cackling here, Madam President. What I hear is that you're not the only one who has a few spokesmen who don't trust the ACM. Let's respect the ACM. Let's just wait and see what the ACM says. Let's not make a collective mistake and make a fool of the ACM here in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u76	I believe that we are all politically active in serving the public interest and the public interest. The outcome of the postal dialogue is, in my opinion, crystal clear: consolidation in the market. Respect that there has been market forces and that it has worked suboptimally for a number of years, but consolidation is the only way. Then we can say very royally according to the rules that the ACM needs to be dealt with first and that we have to go back and see if the Secretary of State is going to do something, but I think it's just crystal clear. To my liking, in some cases, rules should be subordinate to solutions and you should just say materially that consolidation is really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u77	Now my nugget breaks. In my opinion, the PvdA is simply taking a walk with the regulations and the legislation. I don't get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u78	No, I am not taking the legislation for granted, but we should not just say that we are going to do a complete weighting with the ACM and then see if there are any reasons of general interest. The postal dialogue has given a crystal clear outcome, which is consolidation. That is the only way to secure the future of mail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u79	I shall now go to Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u80	I feel a little addressed by Mr Weverling. I have also listened very carefully to colleagues. I haven't been weird, derogatory or otherwise about the ACM at all. I just said this. Supposing the ACM is only looking at economic conditions, is the Secretary of State prepared to start that Article 47 process? So it is a little more nuanced than Mr Weverling just said. We're not shooting at the ACM at all. I didn't hear anyone do that. All we're saying is, if that happens, is the Secretary of State willing to do it? We take our responsibilities here as members of the States-General and we must also dare to look forward. So it's just really decent that we're doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u81	Those words by Mr Graus were taken from my heart. If the Oudeman Committee writes down that water is wet, then we can start by suggesting that the ACM should first assess whether water is wet, but that water is wet and let's just admit it. Consolidation is necessary and let us just acknowledge it and let us say it here. Then the Secretary of State will also have a bit of support if she has to consider at some point whether she wants to use that power. Mr. Chairman. I would like to raise two other points. First of all, access to PostNL's network. It is essential that the dozens of companies with thousands of workers with disabilities continue to have access to that network. Finally, the relationship between the postal market and the parcel market. PostNL is also an important player in the parcel market. The consolidation in the postal market is necessary but should not become disruptive in the parcel market. There should be no cross-subsidisation. How's the State Secretary gonna bail that out? Proper working conditions must also be introduced on the package market. There's an uneven playing field. There are too many parties who take a stroll at workers' rights and thereby give themselves an unfair competitive advantage. How does the Secretary of State intend to promote the removal of this unfair competitive advantage?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u82	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes and then the Secretary of State will answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u83	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u84	Mr. Chairman. When I joined last year, the postal market was about the first big problem that hit my desk. The urgent situation on the postal market and certainly the position of the postal servicemen were manifest. I therefore like to see how the mail delivery guys, whether they are wearing an orange sweater or a blue sweater, are here today. This shows the importance of this market, of a lot of people working there and of a lot of people still enjoying receiving mail. The beautiful tickets, also mentioned by some of the spokesmen. The analysis of the postal market, which was sent to the Chamber in 2017, by my predecessor, showed that due to the strong shrinkage of the postal market, the financing of the UPD, the universal postal service, is under pressure and that reforms are necessary to keep the postal market affordable and accessible. The analysis also raised a number of questions about the public interest of letter mail, about the rules governing the market organisation and about the planned transition. Since the government cannot answer this self-evidentity alone, and because support for postal operators and other organisations is of the utmost importance, I started the postal dialogue at the beginning of this year. Mrs Oudeman's opinion, which I also thank over your heads for all the work she has done, together with all the studies that have been carried out over the past few years on behalf of EZK, was the basis for the policy and legislative agenda that I sent to your Chamber for the summer recess. I am pleased that your Chamber has quickly taken up the matter. The situation is urgent. This will ensure that we can quickly clarify the political direction of all parties and the sector and that the transition can be initiated in order to make postal services future-proof. In my letter of 15 June I outlined the final picture I have in mind and what the transition to it should look like. For this transition, the following principles are guiding for me. The current, legally anchored quality level of the UPD remains stable without us making any extra money from the treasury. And in the future too, there is a role for the government to protect vulnerable groups of users. But for a very large group needs change and the post as we know it now is less and less important. Laws and regulations must respond to this in order to give the UPD provider space to adapt to the changing needs of the Dutch user. In my letter I also outlined the fundamental measures needed to ensure these principles in the longer term. That is what I would very much like to discuss with your Chamber today. I would like to divide the remainder of my speech into three parts: making the UPD the first to be future-proof, a future-proof market organisation as a second and protection for workers in a vulnerable position on the labour market. The first, making the UPD future-proof. The first is its sustainability. It is precisely for the transition phase that it is important to look for opportunities to maintain the current quality and to fulfil the UPD task as efficiently as possible so that it remains affordable. A dilemma that many other European countries are also struggling with. This cabinet chooses to protect vulnerable users. At the same time, we must not close our eyes to the wishes of an increasingly large group of users who grow up in a digital world and also communicate in this way. There is now a transition phase where a balance between old and new is needed. In this context, I would like to simplify and broaden the very detailed and technology-dependent rules on postal delivery. The current rules are based on mandatory physical delivery at a specific location in a mailbox of certain sizes. Tomorrow's consumer may well have other wishes and they should not be frustrated by legislation. In the context of protecting the delivery of the UPD we also have a bill Boring UPD, which was put on hold at the request of PostNL and Sandd at the time of the postal dialogue. This bill is intended to ensure the security of supply of the UPD and its monitoring. I intend to include this legislation in the other legislation announced in relation to the Postal Act. Then there is the second point: a future-proof market organization. The choices we have made in the past have been very successful. The quality of mail delivery is very high and innovative services are offered, such as a digital stamp, a kiss as a stamp on February 14th and getting a message in advance that mail is on the way. Large postal users have been able to benefit from choice and low prices. Therefore, I do not share what some of you have said, namely that privatisation and market forces in the postal sector have led to a lower level or poor quality. The opposite is the case, especially when you look at the countries around us. The 2018 Postal Development Report identified the Netherlands as number 2. However, we are now at a turning point. The benefits of the current model, based on strong competition in the business part of the market, are increasingly outweighing the disadvantages for the UPD. The space for multiple networks is limited by this. Mail volumes continue to fall by 15% last year. For affordable and with a "next day delivery" promise to continue delivering mail anywhere in the country at uniform prices, economies of scale are essential. For a uniform price, it is important that you can use profitable areas to continue serving uneconomic areas. Specifically, this means that stimulating network competition and focusing on the lowest price should no longer be the starting point for market regulation. That's what I'm going to anchor in the Postwet. I would like to ensure that a competitor can only join if these efficiency gains are introduced. Accession should not lead to undermining of public interests, including the ubiquitousness of the UPD. This includes a different, more targeted access tool than the current instrument of significant market power. I no longer want competition for the competition. Leading the monitoring must be what the impact of regulation is on the UPD. I would like to take the precise effect of this in good consultation with the ACM. Cooperation can also lead to better exploitation of economies of scale. This can be done on a small and large scale. Both options were put forward by the parties in the postal dialogue and included in Mrs Oudeman's opinion. Such cooperation does not require regulatory changes, but changes to the market regulation instrument may provide an incentive to achieve desirable incentives. Then the third block, Mr. Chairman. I shall, of course, come back to all the questions that have been asked. The third point concerns protection for postal service providers. The transition to a wider delivery market requires more equal treatment of similar work in sectors. Competition on working conditions can then be prevented. That is an interest which I believe is widely shared by your Chamber. This is directly linked to the proposals of this cabinet for greater protection of workers at the bottom of the wage building in the labour market. For the time being, the Temporary Decree provides for the necessary protection for part of the postal market. However, I think it is desirable to look at other people who work at the bottom of the payroll building in the parcel market. That's what the coalition agreement says. This is a subject that falls under the responsibility of my colleague Wouter Koolmees, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, but of course we have good contact. I do not exclude that in specific market segments, such as the package market, we should temporarily provide more protection if the parties do not assume their own responsibilities there. Mr President, I will conclude my introduction. With the above package of measures, I expect to be able to guarantee a high-quality postal service that meets the needs of users and which is attentive to the people working in this beautiful sector. I now turn to answering the questions. I'll try to put that together, too. A number of you, Mrs van den Berg, Mr Weverling, Mr Bruins, Mrs Bromet, Mr Alkaya, have asked questions about consolidation and Article 47 of the Competition Act. As the Postal Dialogue showed and as I wrote in the letter, far-reaching consolidation brings great benefits: significant synergy benefits are then called. I think consolidation is a very interesting option to keep the UPD affordable and allow the postal market to make a responsible transition. The current Postal Act does not contain any obstacles to this. However, there is merger control on the basis of the Competition Act. It is not up to politics but to parties themselves to take the initiative for consolidation. They must come forward and apply for it. The ACM must then give its consent on the basis of the Competition Act. In doing so, the ACM assesses the effects of the merger on competition. There are, of course, many possibilities where I can support consolidation. First of all, I can express my support for the direction that the parties want to take. By embracing Mrs. Oudeman's report, I have done so. We can express a shared political preference here. I can have conversations with parties. I can send a letter to the ACM, and on the basis of the General Administrative Law Act as an interested party I can submit an opinion on a merger. Nevertheless, despite the defence of the parties, the ACM may consider that the negative effects on competition are too severe and the authorisation is rejected. In that case, Article 47 of the Competition Act gives me a final opportunity to grant a merger authorisation if it has been applied for if there are important reasons of general interest, which outweigh the expected impediment to competition, and which require the merger. In the case of an Article 47 procedure, therefore, the ACM and I examine on different grounds. I consider the independence of the ACM to be of the utmost importance, but because we test on different grounds, there is no problem with the independence of the ACM if I came to a different judgment. That independence of the ACM is really important. It is true that the ACM can reject a request and that this may create some degree of uncertainty. I would like to work for further consolidation, but I do think it is important that there is a good, orderly process, in which the different roles of both mine and the ACM are kept separate. I cannot and will not anticipate the way in which this balance of interests will ultimately work out for the application of Article 47. I cannot believe it, Mr President: I have a question from Mr Moorlag first. I see he wants to interrupt, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u85	Then I give you the opportunity to answer that question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u86	Yeah, maybe that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u87	Handy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u88	It's more convenient, yeah. Mr Moorlag asked: can the Secretary of State use Article 47 in advance? This was also the case several times in an interrupting debate. No, I can't. I just said that's not how the law works. It is up to the parties to notify their intention to concentrate, and then the process will be completed as I have just outlined. I'm just gonna wait, Mr. Chairman. What can I do for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u89	Have you had all the questions from Mr Moorlag?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u90	Well, it is on this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u91	Okay. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u92	I hear the Secretary of State say several things. First, she says: I have tools to express an opinion or an opinion within that procedure of Article 47 and to have contact with the ACM. The Secretary of State literally said, "I can do that." But a can-determine is also a "can't" clause at the same time: you can do it, but you can't do it either. My question to the Secretary of State is whether she will. The second thing I would like to put to the Secretary of State is a dilemma. The ACM is going to test. Suppose the ACM rejects it, then there can be great uncertainty in the market. Perhaps there is also the risk that there will be a party that will make an unfriendly bid on PostNL. How can we tackle that? I also hear the Secretary of State say clearly: I have a different weighting of the general interest. It also says that it agrees with the need for consolidation. The end point seems clear to me, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u94	... does the Secretary of State also see opportunities to realize that a little earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u95	I understand Mr Moorlag's impatience, given the interests involved, but it is really a process that needs to take place. It is in itself remarkable that we are talking here about closer cooperation and that the words 'fusion' and 'consolidation' have been used here. It really starts with the parties. They must decide that with each other and then report to the ACM. And we're really gonna have to wait for that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u96	I understand that under normal circumstances, but we might have a situation where something is really going to disintegrate. I told you, an enemy bid on the stock market or something in a period of uncertainty. Then it does feel a bit uncomfortable when the Secretary of State says: then I certainly intend to use the defibrillator, but despite that cardiac arrest I have to wait until the ACM has fully assessed it. Couldn't it be too late?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u97	I hear a bit of the demand for guarantees, but I can't give a guarantee. We have gone through a process with each other, the postal dialogue, and it has been concluded in that dialogue: further cooperation and consolidation are the solution for the postal market. I sent that to the Chamber together with a letter, and now we really need to be patient with each other. To the extent that they are going to do so, the companies concerned must now take the next step. I understand the impatience, but that's how the procedure goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u98	I was pleased to hear from the Secretary of State that she is going to amend the legislation to ensure the UPD in the event of a foreign takeover. It didn't become quite clear what the timeline for that was. I would like to draw your attention to Mr Moorlag's question. Does she draw that forward or does she want to do so simultaneously with other legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u99	At the same time as the other amendments to the Postal Act that you have seen in the letter. This legislation is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2021, but this is ultimately due to the different times of treatment. But that's the planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u100	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u101	Mrs Bromet of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, Mrs Van Eijs of the D66 Group and Mr Graus asked how the ACM will respond to the proposed consolidation and how I will prevent one of the companies from abusing its new position. As I have just said, I cannot anticipate the assessment of the ACM. The parties themselves should report and justify why consolidation and merger should take place. The ACM then has to assess this. Consolidation brings efficiency benefits, including for the UPD. This cost advantage may then have a positive effect on the increase in the stamp price. In a consolidated market for business mail there is still competitive pressure. Too high a price level can lead users to switch to a digital medium or trigger entry. Also here, the, what do you call, disciplinary functioning of the market also does its job. In the new regulation, too, I intend to include an instrument to regulate retail tariffs. This instrument can then be used if market developments give rise to this. Companies must then also comply with the Competition Act. It contains provisions on abuse of a dominant position. These factors ultimately limit the scope for postal operators to raise prices. Some of you have asked about the consequences of a possible consolidation of PostNL and Sandd in the parcel market. Of course, several larger players are active in the parcel market, who fight for market share. Sandd has only recently started a parcel service. It's still small, 0.1% of the parcel market. Thus, merger has a negligible impact on the package market. Should competition problems arise, it is then up to the ACM to take action. The ACM has been publishing a monitor on the postal and parcel market for a number of years. In doing so, the ACM also shows that it is monitoring these markets closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u102	I'm watching. You're at the consolidation point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u103	Shall I finish that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u104	I'm really asking you to finish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u105	I'll finish it. Mrs Bromet asked me whether I can assure her that the combination of Sandd and PostNL can ensure good working conditions and working conditions. On the one hand, consolidation, merger, efficiency gains, potentially reducing the number of jobs needed. On the other hand, merging volumes ensures fuller bags in urban areas. This in turn leads to more work, which means that some of the FTEs, of jobs, are retained. Under the line, consolidation can always reduce the number of jobs. At the same time, the shrinkage in the postal market will, of course, also affect this. With regard to the quality of jobs, consolidation mainly provides scope for a more gradual and socially responsible phasing-out at a transition stage of a shrinking postal market. In the alternative scenario, where we do not rely on consolidation, for example, the sudden disappearance of a postal carrier or the need for a tough clean-up, without the possibility of accompanying workers from job to job, is also real. I share the importance that lies behind this, and I do not think that alternative scenario is desirable either. The interests of postal servicemen are at my heart and the cabinet. That is why I proposed in my letter to your Chamber that I should work to protect the working conditions of these people. As long as there is no other regulation, I intend to maintain the temporary decision on postal delivery. Mr Alkaya and Mr Weverling of the VVD asked me to prevent redundancies. If they're not necessary, you'll always have to avoid forced dismissals. If it comes to an Article 47 request, I will, of course, take this part with me: good working conditions and no competition on working conditions, as Mr Moorlag always says so beautifully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u106	Mr. Alkaya was before, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u107	On this point a brief response; my question is on another point. PostNL is on the other side of course screaming for people. They are now deploying office staff to deliver mail. I therefore assume that the Secretary of State, if she is committed, must be able to reach agreements that there will be no redundancies. That she has that intention is, in any case, beautiful. My question concerns the following. The Secretary of State said that with price fixing, a kind of maximum price, she wants to prevent the monopoly she creates from getting that organization 95% market share, if not unlimited, from increasing prices. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u108	That's the beauty of when your text is in front of you, I just literally said "in new regulation, too, I intend to include an instrument to regulate end-user tariffs. This instrument can then be used if market developments give rise to this." It is, of course, a far-reaching instrument, but one that I want to have up my sleeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u109	I get that. But there's another side too. We must take such measures to ensure that such a monopoly is not all going to do crazy things and raise prices. We ensure that such an organisation has 95% of the market share, so there is virtually no competition. So there is no longer a market. So what justifies that this is going to be a private organisation that can make a profit, with shareholders that expect dividends, and that we just keep pretending that it is still a market, when there is no market functioning at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u110	I look at it in a different way than Mr Alkaya. But I also find it a little unusual to argue in favour of a state-owned company which in the past has simply been loss-making. Competition has also brought us a great deal of good. One of the best-functioning postal companies, only Switzerland is doing better than we are. If you look at the stamp price in other European countries, ours is also acceptable. So I see it in a different way. In fact, what exactly is the benefit of market forces? That if you price yourself out of the market, no one's gonna make use of having a letter delivered by a mailman. That's what you saw in Denmark. There, changes in the system have led to a further decrease in the amount of mail sent. So I understand politically, but here it is wise to look at the benefits that market forces have brought us. Where it had disadvantages, namely competition on working conditions, I took the temporary decision on postal delivery. This is now being maintained, which means that 80% of people have a contract of employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u111	Finally, Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u112	Yes, finally, on this point. Look, if there was a market, I could go with the Secretary of State. We don't have to make mobile phones or produce chairs as government, I totally get that. But we all note here that the market has not worked. That is why we are allowing the two largest companies to come together. There will be one rural infrastructure that no one else can go around. So that market will no longer be de facto, but we are going to allow profits to be made there. What justifies that profits can be made if the people who want to send a letter will no longer be able to pass through one organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u113	I have not noticed that there is no longer a market; I have noticed that there is a market in which volumes are falling tremendously. This requires that the regulation we have now be adapted to ensure that we have a smooth transition to a new situation. A number of Members spoke about taking the letters with the packages. Some 2 billion letters and 200 million packages are currently being sent. That's gonna grow together at some point and get close. Whether that also means that, as is often said, the pizza deliveryer then takes the letter, is to watch proverbial coffee. My kids order pizza a lot, I don't order pizza that often. So it wouldn't work for me. So we really have to look to the future, but say "boys, we quit, a state company, and then everything's gonna be okay" that's not so. It is also good to give Mr Alkaya that the profits are maximized. So it's not like it can only grow endlessly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u114	We must not forget the human dimension. I don't know if my colleagues are getting all those messages from postmen. I am all getting very sad messages from people who have to get up at 2.45 a.m. because of all the situations we are talking about instead of 3.45 a.m. when they can't eat until 6:00 a.m., 7:00 a.m. and then lie in bed for three hours with a full stomach. Let's not forget the human size. We're having too much of a business discussion right now, but it's about people, about tens of thousands of people. We shouldn't forget that. My question to the Secretary of State is about the use of the Article 47 procedure or whatever you want to call it. I want to have a little more certainty about that in advance, because it's all a little too non-binding for me. The Secretary of State says I can't give guarantees. But the Secretary of State can. The Secretary of State can say: at the moment when the ACM goes down, I serve the national interest as a national shepherd of the sheep and I start the Article 47 procedure. I think we should also do PostNL a service.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u115	One of the reasons why we started a postal dialogue and why I sent a letter to your Chamber is, in addition to affordability and accessibility of the universal postal service, of the postal service, the interest of the people working in the postal market. I can absolutely see that. I can't stress that enough. Where Mr Graus is trying to provoke me to advance in an orderly manner on this subject, I must disappoint him. It doesn't depend on me either. This starts with two companies that decide to work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u116	I understand that so far. But what if the ACM is going to say "boys, that's not gonna happen" and she's just gonna look at economic conditions? The Secretary of State may then argue the national interest; she may be overruled. It's a nasty word; I don't want to use it, but I'll do it anyway. I want that guarantee anyway. We are debating this at night and I want to have a guarantee as a member of the States-General. Otherwise, we might have to do something with a motion or something. The Secretary of State may be able to make a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u117	I'm repeating myself. We have an independent supervisory body, the ACM. We should cherish them a little bit with each other. When the request arrives, let it do the work it has to do and act on business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u118	The Secretary of State says: I don't know if pizza delivery guys are gonna deliver letters, so I don't know what the parcel market is gonna look like either. I don't think anyone knows that. Does the Secretary of State really think it's important that we keep that direction? Or does it consider that to be a matter of the free market?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u119	The parcel market is now running. There's growth. There are new entrants, big companies, doing well. The quality is also good. As a cabinet, we do have concerns about the position of people who deliver the packages. That is what is included in the coalition agreement. The Minister for Social Affairs and Employment is working on this, very much supported by me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u120	I see something happening in the future as we continue to see the postal market as a separate part of the package market, when I think we all see them being put together. I think it's very important that that comes from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u121	I'm just to intervene when something goes wrong. That is not at the moment on the package market, except for the position of people who bring the packages around. That has the attention and that is being worked on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u122	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u123	Then the UPD. When do I expect to come up with the bill Boring UPD? I have just said something about it to Mrs Van den Berg. We're going to take the bill of deposit UPD along with the other changes to the Postal Act. I assume that in the second half of next year I will be able to send concrete proposals to the Chamber. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that Mrs Van den Berg and Mr Bruins. agree that we are currently at the borders of the UPD? The government agreement provides for the SPD to be anchored at the current level of quality in rural areas and in shrinking regions. However, we can see that mailboxes are still being removed. Some of you have rightly indicated that the government agreement says that we are keeping the UPD as it is. The removal of mailboxes by PostNL is a result of a change of regulation agreed by the Dutch Parliament in 2015. This will significantly reduce costs for PostNL, thus ensuring affordability and maintaining quality at an adequate level. This amendment has led to the relaxation of distribution requirements in the 2017 Postal Decision. This is a very large operation that PostNL performs over several years. That's why it's still working on that in 2018. PostNL tries to take local situations into account as much as possible. That is why this is also a long process. This is also discussed with vulnerable groups. Do I agree that we should maintain the current legal dispersal requirements and the minimum number of approximately 8,700 mailboxes? This has been agreed in the coalition agreement. The ACM supervises whether PostNL does this in a correct, good way. I understand PostNL is keeping to the agreements. I'm just gonna keep going, Mr. Chairman. I see Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u124	Is this point ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u125	I have two further questions, including those of Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u126	Okay, then I suggest you answer it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u127	The stamp price. Is the envisaged legislative and policy agenda likely to lead to a less rapid rise in stamp prices than in unchanged policies, i.e. continuing on the current path? Affordability and availability of the postal service are important. The measures I am taking now are also in this direction. The proposals I made in the letter aim to avoid unnecessary duplication of networks. Co-operation between postal operators can then also lead to cost-efficiency. The adaptation of the current regulatory framework that I have proposed can contribute to this, and that is the hope of dampening further increases in the stamp price in the coming years. Through further cooperation you get efficiency benefits and the hope and expectation is that this will have a positive impact on the increase in the stamp price. Mr President, the last question on this subject. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether PostNL can continue to deliver letters in good time throughout the year or whether there is a structural problem? We've seen problems around Christmas before. PostNL is obliged to ensure that the service is of good quality. This means that PostNL must ensure that at least 95% of the letters offered within the Netherlands are delivered on average per calendar year, unless the next day is a Sunday or a holiday. It cannot be excluded that PostNL is faced with extreme conditions, such as extreme weather or tight labour market conditions, which we are currently seeing widely. Last Christmas weather conditions played a role in the late delivery. These are occasional problems, which can temporarily lead to a dip in quality. I assume that PostNL will do everything in its power to comply with the legal requirements, as these are: legal requirements to continue to comply. Timely delivery is also what business customers pay for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u128	I would like to return to an earlier comment by the Secretary of State on the UPD and that the legislation is available in 2021. I may have missed something in that, and if the Secretary of State wants to answer in second term, fine, but I'm worried. If, if I may call it that, there would be hostile takeovers by 2021, what are the possibilities of the Secretary of State to protect the UPD anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u129	The bill of assurance UPD is still at the very beginning. That has yet to begin with internet consultation and the advice of the Council of State. There is therefore little point in bringing that forward now if you want to make these other major changes to the Postal Act at the same time. That's why I've decided to take it with the other law, because it can't go much faster either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u130	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u131	Mr. Chairman. Then the wider delivery market. There have already been a number of interruptions. Has the postal dialogue considered the parcel market sufficiently? Mrs Van Eijs asked for this. The postal dialogue specifically concerned the mail market. However, there were parcel carriers, including DHL, among the parties concerned, in order to be able to share their views. During the round table your Chamber had on 15 November 2017, PostNL and DHL indicated that they do not consider a synergy between these two markets realistic in the short term, because the quantities are still so far apart. But in the long run, that could turn into one. We just talked about this. That is why I want to combat possible restrictions, which are still in legislation. A striking example is the possibility of having packages delivered in office buildings; you can already see this. You can pick them up when you go home at night. If we are thinking about having the letters delivered there in the future, we must be able to do so by means of legislation. That is why the letter of 15 June states that I want to adopt technology-neutral legislation. Mrs Bromet assumes that I am based on a separate postal and parcel market. Can these two developments be separated and do they not influence each other any more than I am now describing? These are, for example, the flat mail items mentioned by Mrs Bromet, the well-known book. Letterbox packages are only a small part of the mail market. Compared to the total number of packages, approximately 3% to 4% is a mailbox package at PostNL. So that share is too limited to affect now. Of the mailbox packets, about one in three are sent by consumers. These packages are subject to PostNL's UPD obligation. That was this part. I now come to the SMP instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u132	I still have a question about the inclusion of the postal market in the wider package market. I asked him myself. I'll read it to you, because it'll be the same as in the first term. How is it prevented that certain parties in the delivery market are actually favoured or disadvantaged by the consolidation in the postal market? That was my question. You refer to the postal dialogue and say that it has been discussed. I understand that, but in the end those two markets, the postal market and the parcel market, are going to grow together. How do you prevent parties already operating in that delivery market, that parcel market, not already getting an advantage or a disadvantage because they are going to grow together? We, too, are in favour of consolidation, which I have just explained, but it should not affect each other too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u133	I don't see it yet. The parcel market is a well-functioning market. There are new entrants, there is competition, there is free delivery and there are attractive prices for consumers. We're all going through this together. In addition, the quantities are so different that they do not affect each other. In addition, all kinds of technical requirements have been imposed on the letter market. I don't see that so much. Many of you have talked about possible cooperation and consolidation between PostNL and Sandd. I have just indicated that Sandd has only a very small part of the parcel market in his hands. In the package market, there are large companies that compete well with each other. So I do not see the problem that Mr Weverling sees, because I hear that in his words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u134	The difference between these two markets is, of course, that one is a shrinkage market and the other is a growth market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u135	Yeah, that's a difference, too. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u136	That is a big difference and also an important argument, but the ACM also notes that PostNL, for example, already has 60% market share on the parcel market and a party like DHL has the remaining, and of course there are several parties. How do you prevent the same situation from arising in the parcel market, which is now actually on the postal market? There's PostNL and Sandd. Well, then go and work together and in ten years we'll be standing here saying: PostNL and DHL, go and work together. Well, then you're basically in the same situation. I don't want to benefit one person and give the other one a disadvantage. We are dealing with a growth market in that package market, but it must flourish. In this respect, we are really in favour of market forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u137	I understand. The reason why we are here today is because there is a huge drop in volumes in the mail market. As a result, the UPD, affordability and accessibility are under pressure and we share the view that further cooperation, consolidation and merger is the solution here; I have heard you say that. The parcel market is another market. That's a growth market. Exactly what you're saying. In addition, this is exactly what the ACM will eventually do when companies register with the request for permission to merge. Then they're gonna find out which markets these are active in. I trust he will say some sensible things about that in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u138	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u139	The SMP instrument (Remarkable Market Power Instrument). Last week, the College van Beroep voor het bedrijfsleven destroyed the ACM's decision on access for other postal operators on the PostNL network. I announced in the letter that I would opt for a lighter form of access regulation. What do these statements mean for the plans for access regulation and significant market power? In the letter of 15 June, I outlined the final picture of the postal market. In this situation, the postal market as a separate market is expected to have expanded to a certain extent in a wider delivery market. In the transition to that, we must always ask ourselves to what extent the postal market is still an independent market and whether specific regulation is needed to protect end-users as long as they do not have reasonable alternatives. The judgment of the CBb (College van Beroep voor het bedrijfsleven) fits in with the fact that the market may become wider. At the same time, a transition is not black and white. A 1 is not a 0 from one day to the next. That is a gradual process. It is precisely to accompany this process that I announced the amendment of the law to amend that SMP instrument. A form of access regulation is needed in the transition phase. This is not affected by the CBb's ruling. The measures I have outlined in this area are, as far as I am concerned, still valid. What effect does this ruling have on other postal operators and what am I going to do about the unrest that has arisen now? Many postal operators are affected by this ruling and have expressed their concerns with me. I understand that very well. It is of the utmost importance to try to provide security and tranquility to postal operators, especially now that that market is so under influence. PostNL announced that it would continue to offer access at the CBb plenary session. That is also stated in their press release following the ruling. I spoke to PostNL about this and also with Sandd, by the way. PostNL has assured me not to take irreversible steps without first consulting me. For the longer term, the ruling is also important for the review of regulation. I really need a moment to determine with stakeholders, including the ACM, the impact of this on the market and what actions are needed in the short term. What effect does a modification of the SMP system have on the position of regional postal operators? Regional postal operators offer added value in two respects: cost-effective delivery of business mail in a number of regions and the provision of appropriate employment for people with disabilities or distance from the labour market. These mail carriers often rely to a small extent on PostNL, for the delivery of mail for which they themselves do not have coverage and infrastructure. The amended law must continue to ensure that access for residual mail which these carriers cannot provide themselves remains possible under reasonable conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u140	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u141	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u142	Mrs. Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u143	I am pleased to hear that the Secretary of State has spoken with PostNL and that the company promises not to take irreversible steps in terms of access to their network. I would, of course, like to give the Secretary of State all the time, but can she give any indication when she will return to the Chamber with any results?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u144	If I have it, I'll let the Chamber know. But I'm finding it a little hard to estimate that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u145	Please continue. I think you're about to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u146	Yeah, I'm almost finishing up, that's right. The SP is asking me if we can prevent the distribution of millions to shareholders? The benefit is limited. Until 2016, no dividend has been paid at all. And shareholders are also at risk, of course. They've invested in a company, and that's where, just like you're putting savings somewhere, there's a return on it. How's the post-mobile coming? I'll be at the other cup, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u147	Yes, but Mr Alkaya wants to respond or ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u148	A reaction like that will provoke another reaction. Of course they're at risk, but they're at risk, aren't they? If they lose their jobs or if they have to work under appalling conditions and are paid under the minimum wage, they run a much higher risk than that shareholder who may have 1% of his portfolio in PostNL. I am not therefore concerned with the fact that this shareholder is going forward or backwards with the rise in prices or the fall in prices. The point is that such a company which has to deal with a decrease in volume, in addition to having to take into account the fact that it delivers the mail properly, must also take into account a distribution last year of 80 million shares. When we talk about a public service, is it not unreasonable to ask such an organisation that the 80 million does not go to the shareholders but simply to the employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u149	Mr. Chairman. We have just taken the temporary decision on mail delivery to protect people who work in the mail, so that they get a contract of employment with good working conditions. That is an interest that is high on the agenda and that is protected by me and which I also pay attention to and continue to pay attention to. On the other hand, the shareholders aren't all rich stinkers who have unlimited money. There are also people among those who take shares of their hard-earned savings. So I wouldn't want to make that very black and white contradiction here. The fact is, exactly as I say, the benefit is very limited. Until 2016, no dividend has been paid at all. Shareholders invest in companies, for example, allowing companies to make innovations that benefit us all. In addition, you have the interests of people who work at a company. As I said, they are high on the banner, and hence the temporary decision to deliver mail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u150	Mr Alkaya, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u151	Of course, there must also be investment in a company, but if the Secretary of State thought this was important enough, she could do so herself. Now that company is left to the whims of the shareholders and they have indeed chosen to pay dividends in the event of a takeover attempt by the shareholders, which means that the scarce resources in that company go not to the employees but to the shareholders. The Secretary of State is not going to be able to get away with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u152	I don't think it's that black and white. We're trying to secure a number of interests here. We want to ensure the accessibility of the postal service. We want to guarantee the affordability of the postal service, so we don't want the price to rise dramatically. We want a good quality. If the government puts money into something, we'll all get it through taxes. That's what we're trying to prevent. In that sense, of course, the government does not exist. At the same time, we want to ensure that people working in the sector have a contract of employment with good conditions. I'm trying to secure those different interests. That is also what we are doing with the letter I sent to the Chamber and all the amendments to the laws that are coming. Mr. Chairman. Dan last but definitely not least...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u153	But Mr Graus has been at the interrupting microphone for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u154	... the postmobile.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u155	Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u156	A rough estimate has been made that since 2016 there has been a small amount of lost revenue from these ACM measures. Now my colleague from D66 just asked when to expect something. But I do think something needs to be said, because we need to be able to control it. If the Secretary of State says "you have to wait and see," we can't pin her on that. So I'm gonna need something. I'd like some tools, because I haven't been able to cut anything off tonight. I want to know where we stand with regard to the time frame, also in view of the fact that we are really talking about hundreds of millions and that we are cutting down on the postmen. Of course you can't. We throw it out there, and in the meantime, people like the man of the moment are being cut off, who writes that he can barely sleep three hours a night. Of course, none of that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u157	I fear that Mr Graus is now confusing two things. But I think I'm gonna leave that for now, because otherwise it's gonna be too technical. I hear Mr Graus say: I didn't tap anything here. I have heard quite a few special things here that I think are important for the postal market and for those same postal service providers. I believe that almost everyone in the Chamber has also indicated that further cooperation in the postal market is important in order to keep the postal service affordable and accessible. For example, a number of words have been spoken here which are important for the future. So I see the bright side. I hope that Mr Graus will see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u158	First of all, I'm not confusing anything. I really have it all in mind; I've had it here for 13 years. The point is that I want to support my colleague. She asked for a certain deadline, although she asked a little more sympathetically. I'm just saying, give me a date, or just say "before the end of the year" or I know what's being said. Of course, I'd like to see it much sooner. But it must be possible to say that, mustn't it? Isn't that what all rulers do? And from what was promised, I knew before I entered the room that that would be promised, because you just know that. Those were all things that were already known to be said in advance. But I want more than that, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u159	I can tell you when I'm doing something, when I'm sending a letter to the Chamber and when I'm having a conversation, but I don't have companies on strings. And the next steps that need to be taken here should ultimately not be taken by me, but by the postal operators we have talked about today. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the post-mobile. I think Mr Graus would like to hear that. He has brought this to my attention earlier during a budget debate, even with a very nice drawing. We had a postal dialogue. As such, the post-mobile has not yet been mentioned, but I am going to do so in order to finally tell Mr Graus of the PVV Group if anyone sees bread in this. Postal carriers and other parties want to work on all kinds of innovative ideas; that's how I know them. Maybe this is one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u160	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u161	Thank you for that, I say to the Secretary of State through Madam President. It is possible that the Secretary of State can take this along with VWS and do so in such a way that medicines can also be delivered to the old people of days in shrinking areas. Because then the knife cuts both ways. That would be even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u163	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u164	Before we enter the second term, I would like to draw my attention to the Secretary of State's reply. I heard her say: I cannot enter into the procedure, in the considerations of the ACM. But she also says: then, in the public interest, I have to make an independent assessment on the basis of Article 47, and then there may be other arguments. I would just like to make sure that I have understood it so well, also with a view to tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u165	I have outlined the various possibilities for me and for you in this whole discussion. I have also mentioned, for example, the possibility of presenting an opinion throughout the process as an interested party. We have to do it in an orderly way. We have an independent supervisor. That is the one to whom we have given the power to look at any merger requests. I'll wait and see. I cannot and will not anticipate the use of the instruments I have. There are, however, Article 47 of the Competition Act has been mentioned several times here, but we really need to let the matter take place first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u166	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u167	I understand that very well. I am considering tabling a motion in which that is respected. The Secretary of State may consider the general interest. Then I think that as a Chamber we can give a direction as to what we think should be considered in determining what is the general interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u168	That's not up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u169	Thank you. We now move on to the second term of the Chamber. I assume that's what everyone needs. That's the case. Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by reading two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the liberalisation of postal services has failed;]] [[considers that mail delivery should be a public task and too important to leave to the whims of the market;]] [[calls on the government to restore the public service to the postal service, which has no role to play in the market;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the effects of the liberalisation of the postal service have been passed on to workers by means of competition on working conditions;]] [[considers that the burden of the proposed changes should not again be placed on the shoulders of workers;]] [[calls on the Government to prevent the consolidation of postal companies leading to forced job losses and deterioration of working conditions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29502-61]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29502-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u171	Yes, Mr President, on the first motion, in which the SP proposes to make it a state interest again. Does the SP not agree with me that it would be a strange move to integrate the postal market and the parcel market? Because then we've just turned the postal market back into a state-owned company. So how can the postal market go hand in hand with the parcel market if we follow this proposal from the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u172	It must be very clear that the market works, so that there is a healthy market, with competition, if we are to allow that market to survive if there is also a public interest. In the case of the package market, I believe that is the case. As the Secretary of State has indicated, there are competitors there. There are all kinds of abuses there. There are also all kinds of abuses why workers have to go on strike. But that's another story. I would point out here that we must turn the basic provision of postal services into a public task again, because we have all noticed that there is no healthy market there and there will soon be no competition there, because by consolidation almost 95% of the market is in the hands of one party. Why should we allow shareholders to run away with millions of dollars if that money can just as easily reach the employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u173	Do not repeat the debate. It's really about the motions. Finally, Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u174	It's still not clear to me. I don't think I got an answer to my question. You have a mail market and a parcel market. They have to go together in the long run. In his proposal, Mr Alkaya pretends to be completely separate markets. In my view, that is not the reality, not even for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u175	I think that's the Secretary of State's proposal, yes, that these two things go hand in hand. What I propose is that we turn the postal service into a public task. D66 acts like what's on the table right now is the only solution. I'm taking another side very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u176	That is a good point from Mrs Van Eijs, I must say. I'm gonna check in on the state-owned company anyway. How much million would you give to nationalize that company? No dividend has been paid until 2016 and now you say: let's nationalise PostNL. Then we can't use that money for good business, can we? Because in the end, all those shares have to be bought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u177	If we are going to implement this proposal, those shares will of course eventually be bought by the government. This must of course be further investigated, but at the moment the price of a share of PostNL is so close to the €3. We all know how many shares there are. If you calculate that, you'll get to a few hundred million euros, around 0.5 billion. So if we...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u178	So the first one...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u179	Can I finish this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u180	Yes, I'll let you finish your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u181	So if we have already paid 80 million in dividends to shareholders in one year, and in the year before around 20 million, we have already paid out about one fifth of what it would cost to nationalise that part in two years. Mr. Weverling is from the VVD. They always pretend to be so for the entrepreneurs. An entrepreneur would look at this and think: well, there's a good point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u182	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u183	The postal dialogue and the studies show very clearly that deprivatizing, so nationalizing a company like PostNL is simply not profitable at all. I hear the SP say: only spend EUR 0.5 billion to become the owner of such a company. I think that's putting the horse behind the cart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u184	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u185	No, Mr. Chairman, and I actually wanted to finish. Then I will also respond immediately to Mr Weverling. Look, we all note that the market has failed. And then we say that that's because the volume has dropped, and we pretend that nothing preceded that. It was these parties, including the CDA, from Lubbers to Balkenende, who even sold the mail. We're cleaning up those messes right now. So of course they say here now: it is not the market; it is the circumstances and we must...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u186	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u187	I have a few more seconds, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u188	Oh? Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u189	And I'd still like to use it to make my point. As far as I'm concerned, this is the beginning. We're gonna look at these privatisations and we're gonna start taking back what's ours all. We should not leave it to the market to do things that we all think are important, making millions of dollars, but reducing employees and people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u190	Thank you. Mrs Bromet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u191	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has conducted a postal dialogue. It was intended, among other things, to make statements on the market organisation and its acceptance. The debate shows that the Secretary of State and Members of Parliament do not know when the postal market and the parcel market will coincide, but that they will eventually coincide. GroenLinks finds: governance is foresight. That's why we have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the postal and parcel markets are interlinked;]] [[noting the need for a long-term vision of the entire delivery market in order to ensure smooth transition to this new market;]] [[calls on the Government, building on the postal dialogue, to also launch a package dialogue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet, Mr Moorlag and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29502-163]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u192	Mr. Chairman. I would just like to mention that I find it very remarkable that so many parties here presort on putting the ACM out of play. The Authority Consumer & Market is there for a reason. We were just talking about monitoring, for example, the removal of mailboxes. The Authority Consumer & Market also ensures that the consumer is protected. Of course, it's nothing new that the SP wants to nationalize: a new ministry of Post and back in time with a loss-making post company, PostNL. As far as D66 is concerned, that is certainly not a vision of the future, because a vision of the future should be about the wider delivery market. So it shouldn't see the mail as a single thing. The Secretary of State may not be able to see any effect. D66 has questions about that and that is why I have next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the postal market is shrinking, while the parcel market is growing due to rising e-commerce;]] [[Whereas the postal market will eventually become a wider delivery market;]] [[Whereas there is still insufficient insight into the impact on the parcel market or wide delivery market of any consolidation in the postal market;]] [[noting that the ACM is going to investigate the package market in order to define the market in a competition law sense and to assess whether there is a dominant party;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly bring to the attention of the ACM the impact on the parcel market of a consolidation in the postal market so that it can be involved in the assessment of a proposed merger in the postal market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Eijs and Mr Weverling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29502-164]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u193	Yes, Chairman, look...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u194	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u195	You're making it difficult for me. This is, of course, a second term and things are being said about the Socialist Party. I can assume that I will be able to respond briefly to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u196	Yes, you may respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u197	If Mrs Van Eijs says that the SP wants to go back in time and we all note here that we are going to allow more cooperation instead of market forces, does Mrs Van Eijs see the proposals of the Secretary of State as a step backwards in time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u198	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u199	The proposal involves further cooperation. That's not the same as nationalizing a company.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u200	But that is also a market operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u201	For you, too, Mr Moorlag, it must be a brief remark and not another lengthy discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u202	No, Mr President, but quite a few things were said; as if a number of parties were pulling the ACM all the way out of the way here!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u203	You can make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u204	That is not the case at all for my taste. I do not want to enter into the powers of the ACM, but that does not deprive me of the right to have a political opinion on the future of the post. There's a report from the mail dialog. If you want to ignore that, you could also try to stick an elephant wrinkle-free behind the wallpaper. Surely it is quite clear that the end point is consolidation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u205	Mr Graus hears the word "elephant" and thinks: what is going on here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u206	May I respond, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u207	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u208	I believe that almost all the parties here have said that consolidation was the outcome of the postal dialogue. That is also the way the Secretary of State indicated in her letter. I won't deny that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u209	What Mr Moorlag said does listen closely. Mr. Weverling just did this. Why did I tell you that, if necessary, we should overrule the ACM? That's because the Board of Appeal for Business, the CBb, after years of law, found that the consumer watchdog ACM has gone too far in enforcing more competition in the postal market and that the ACM has used a wrong definition in its decisions. With all due respect, that's quite something! We often deal here with authorities or companies that go wrong. That's our controlling task. We should do so, especially to protect all those people, some of whom are now sitting in the gallery, and also citizens. What we all do is very justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u210	You've made your point, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u211	I really want to finish this. We don't do that. I do want this to work out in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u212	I have a question about the motion. It is about highlighting the impact on the package market. I would like to ask D66 if it is not more convenient to include stakeholders. That's what I'm arguing in my motion. In this way, it will not be an opinion of the government on the future of the package market, but will also be heard by all concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u213	What I am looking for is not so much a judgment about the future or a vision of the package market. The motion is more about the effects on each other. The Green Left motion proposes a package dialogue. Personally, I wonder which question is on the table. The question on the table is quite clear: what about the future of the postal market? And in that light, we should look at the parcel market. That's what my motion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u214	I see that Mrs Van Eijs, in her motion, is asking the Secretary of State for an explicit mention of a particular aspect of the ACM. I find that rather dangerous. It actually sounds like politics is going to try to influence the ACM one more time. Can Mrs Van Eijs reassure me that that is not what she is trying to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u215	Then I can be very clear: no. I think it's gonna put the ACM aside if we start talking about article 47 right away. That goes a lot further than when I or the Secretary of State says to the ACM: look, this is the information I have for you. Then the ACM can see whether it takes that, how it takes it and how it assesses it. But saying in advance that it is all nice what the ACM says, while at the end of the day we make our own assessment, goes a lot further than what I propose in my motion. With the proposal in my motion, I respect the ACM.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u216	Mrs Van Eijs sets out a relationship with another step, but reasoning purely from her own motion, I ask her whether the explicit mention of one aspect, which a politician has to push, does not influence the ACM.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u217	No, because the ACM can independently consider whether and how to take this information with it. It seems to me that offering information you have is not directly the same as influencing, unlike when you say: well, I'm not listening to you anyway. That's what I think goes on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u218	I agree with what Mr Bruins said. This is a particularly uncertain time for the people currently employed in the postal service, since the whole postal dialogue. I wonder what it means for potential timelines if you want to put the matter in a huge hold-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u219	It seems to me that bringing information that already exists does not have to eat an enormous amount of time. It's just a journey we're all going through. A judgement of the ACM will also take some time. I'd like that, too. We all have to do this carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u220	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, we would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering all the questions. I have the next motion on behalf of Mr Bruins of the Christian Union. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the outcome of the postal dialogue;]] [[Whereas the Government Agreement has agreed to anchor the SPD at the current quality level, in rural areas and in shrinking regions;]] [[Considering that the ACM may not authorise such consolidation and that this may lead to significant uncertainty in the postal market;]] [[Whereas, in the event of rejection by the ACM, the Government may itself authorise a consolidation under Article 47 of the Competition Act;]] [[calls on the Government to consider carefully, but as soon as possible, any Article 47 application and to consider at least the following public interests in addition to the effects on competition:]] [[the quality, affordability and continuity of the SPD, including in rural and shrinking regions;]] [[consumer protection;]] [[the position of workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29502-165]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u222	(NL) Mr President, one of the reasons why I was critical of the premature withdrawal of Article 47 is because it was previously used, for example, in matters of state security when it came to competition in markets outside the Netherlands. Does the author of this motion consider this to be of the same kind of importance as defence matters, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u223	I think these are two different subjects. I just asked the Secretary of State a question about the issue of hostile takeovers. That is where separate legislation comes in. Here we are talking purely about the situation that the ACM will of course do its job first. We merely state that the Secretary of State can make use of this article and ask, if there is an application, whether the Secretary of State will respond quickly and also take various, what I call public interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u224	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u225	I do not think that is really an answer to my question, but perhaps I can put a variant to that question. Perhaps Article 47 could conflict with European competition law. Then why are you so attached to the solution through that article?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u226	We have no indication that Article 47 could be in conflict with that. It is not for nothing in the law that there is this possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u227	I'm having a little trouble with this motion, too. No one here is against consolidation. Let's take it one step at a time. There is still a lot to be done in the market and then the ACM is the move. You may wish to make an advance on Article 47. I think you're actually putting the ACM out of play. Whatever the outcome of their advice, you are already shouting: get to work with Article 47. To be honest, I don't think that's very fancy. We don't have the ACM for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u228	Look at the literal text of the motion. It says very clearly: The ACM may reject a request. At that time, the Secretary of State may be asked to use Article 47. At that time, we ask the Secretary of State to do this carefully, to do so quickly and to include some public interests and the interests of the workers in the considerations. That's how the lyrics work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u229	But you do know the Secretary of State as someone who would do that, don't you? I have no reason to believe she wouldn't do it if she had to. I think it's a bit of an unnecessary motion and not chic in front of the ACM.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u230	We have indicated in our input that we strongly support the principles of the Secretary of State. We wish to continue to support her in her further policy with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u231	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u232	Thank you, Madam President. I would have liked to sign a few motions. I am not the first, second or third speaker. There's no point in coming up with a duplicate. I would appreciate it if colleagues would ask me to sign in from now on. The motion also gets a little more power and power when there are more names underneath. In committee aviation, we do that. When it comes to KLM, we all work together and often put all the names under it. We'll have to do much more than that. We need to be much less concerned with our own grocery stores, but much more national thinking and serving the national interest. We should all do that much more here in the Lower House. PostNL should have remained a state-owned company. Then it would probably never have been called PostNL, but that doesn't matter now. It is indeed, as my colleague Alkaya says, debris. At least the SP and the PVV have tried to prevent that. Our motions were voted away time and time again. So there's nothing we can do about it. We gave the same warning in good time about the NVWA, the KLM, energy companies, banks and so on. We also had to clean up after that. That cost hundreds of millions more. And then cut back on the people who have always worked hard. Thank you for including employment in the decision whether or not to initiate an Article 47 procedure. That's what I call it. Thank you also for the commitment to look at the feasibility of and the possibilities for the use of the postmobile, which is still designed by my right hand and can be built by VDL and Dutch hands. I think it is important to say this: we keep everything in our own country. The chassis is built here, the whole structure and everything. A secure unit can be installed for banking purposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u233	Think of your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u234	It's a fantastic idea. Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for doing something about this, Madam President. A blessed evening, all of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u235	You too, Mr. Graus. I call Mr Weverling on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is widely shared here today that we all think it is important that we can continue to send tickets throughout the country in all kinds of corners and in the big cities for years to come. And that for an affordable price and at a high quality level. It is good that after Switzerland we have the best postal market in Europe. We must nurture that. However, the market is shrinking and that is why we too are in favour of consolidation. The VVD has a lot of appreciation, but fortunately I have heard a lot more here this afternoon for all mailmen who, due to weather and wind and day out, go out on the street, doing more than just delivering mail and really have a role in the neighbourhoods. The outcome of the postal dialogue was clear: more cooperation. That is what we are complying with. We also believe that this is the right way forward in this shrinkage market. But let's keep doing everything one step at a time. Let us not enter into the powers of the ACM. As with the ACM, the consumer is also at the centre of the VVD, so it has to work out in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u237	Thank you. Mr. Graus, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u238	And then I'm leaving, Madam President. However, I would like to ask Mr Weverling, through you, not only if there are postmen in the gallery, to express support, but also if there is a vote here at 11:30 a.m. or 11:00 a.m. on motions that affect the boys. Then you should be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u239	Mr Graus is quite right about that. I can remember, by the way, that in my short career here, of a year and a half, I was able to vote once at half past three at night, and that in the field where Mr Graus was sitting few people still voted in favour of a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u240	No, don't be so unkind to each other at the end of a debate like that. Thank you, Mr. Weverling. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u241	We almost kept it friendly until the end, Mr. Chairman, but not at all. It's something. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. It is clear that we must now wait for the ACM. No matter what comes out of that, I call on the Secretary of State to do everything in his power to fight for the maintenance of working conditions for the ladies and gentlemen sitting here in the gallery, and for maintaining the quality of the postal service at the current level, including in shrinking regions. That is why my name is under Mrs van den Berg's motion. When I look out that way, I can see that it's still a bit droopy, but I've seen that from tomorrow the sun comes through again. The rest of the week it gets a few degrees warmer, a degree of 18, so I wish the ladies and gentlemen in the gallery a very nice working week and a sunny future. And that applies not only to the outdoor weather, but also to the postal market. I wish the ladies and gentlemen an honest salary and a good social employership in the postal market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u242	Thank you. Finally, Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u243	Mr. Chairman. I also wish everyone that bright future, including the right working conditions, but something must be done. Then this consolidation must take place. I understand that the Secretary of State must behave in a pure manner, but I very much appreciate the motion of CDA and Christian Union. I would have liked to have co-signed it, because the public interest must ultimately weigh the hardest. I also think that as a Chamber we can send a political signal about this, so in addition to the motion I am going to support, I have two other motions. Those are the next ones. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the letter mail market is shrinking significantly, thereby damaging this important provision and the position of workers;]] [[Whereas consolidation is important to ensure continuity of services and employment;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to remove obstacles to consolidation in a timely manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29502-166]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u244	Second one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a few dozen postal companies employ thousands of workers with disabilities;]] [[Whereas it is essential that these postal operators keep access to the PostNL network under reasonable conditions;]] [[calls on the Government to promote this access so that workers with disabilities can be assured that their employment is maintained,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29502-167]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u245	I will reopen the meeting and give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have seven motions and I will provide them with one by one judgment. The first motion in part No. 161 belongs to the Member of the Alkaya. It calls on the government to make mail delivery a public task again, with no role for the market. We have exchanged a great deal of information about this in the debate. In order not to repeat this motion, I should like to leave it to the Council to reject it, referring to the arguments I used earlier. In the second motion in part No. Mr Alkaya asked the government to prevent the consolidation of postal companies from causing forced job losses and the deterioration of working conditions. This is, of course, primarily for the market players in which the trade unions also play a role. My proposals are intended to achieve a gradual and socially responsible phasing-out. I'll share the concerns. If, therefore, Mr Alkaya is prepared to amend the motion in such a way that I am asked to make an effort to do so, we agree with each other and I can give Chamber judgment to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u247	I will accept the suggestion made by the Secretary of State, because she is not herself responsible for it. That maximum effort seems to me to be a good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u248	Then the motion becomes part no. 162 amended. The State Secretary's verdict is then Chamber of Appeal. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u249	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Then the Bromet c.s. motion. in piece No. 163 in which the government is invited, building on the postal dialogue, to also launch a package dialogue. Mr President, I would advise against this motion. As argued in the debate, the Dutch parcel market is now being created in a natural way and consumers benefit from its dynamics. A level playing field on labour is developed through the lines of the coalition agreement and there is insufficient need for a package dialogue now. That's why I advise against this motion. Then I have the fourth motion in part No. 164 by Mrs Eijs...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u250	Ván Eijs!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u251	That's what I said. At least it was my intention to say that, Mr President. The motion by Mrs Ván Eijs and Mr Weverling asks the government to explicitly highlight the impact on the parcel market of a consolidation in the postal market to the ACM, so that this can be involved in the assessment of a merger proposal. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. It is up to the ACM to investigate the effects of a possible consolidation. The ACM thus takes the relevant market with it. The ACM therefore determines whether the parcel market is part of this. I can, once again, emphasise this and bring it to the attention of the House. Then I have a motion from Mrs van den Berg and Mr Bruins on item No. 165 in which they ask the Government to examine a possible Article 47 request carefully but as soon as possible and to take into account a number of interests. As pointed out in the debate, there are, of course, many possibilities to support consolidation. I can say that I do. Here you can express the common political preference that you do. I can have conversations with parties. I can send a letter to the ACM and submit an opinion, and finally there is Article 47 of the Competition Act. I have also argued how important it is to ensure that this process is conducted in an orderly manner, in which the ACM can use its competence independently. Article 47 concerns a different area of competence, since other interests are taken into account. You, as a Chamber, say that you think that this should be the case at least for a number of people. That is how I read this motion: as a Chamber, you state that, if it finally comes to that, you would like that power to be filled in in this way. I shall therefore leave this motion to the House. Then I have the motion in part no. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: As far as this is in my power, it is true that this motion supports the policy; I leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. Moreover, it remains the case that the parties themselves must act and act. Then the last motion, which is in part No. 167: the Chamber, having heard the debate, calls on the Government to promote access to the PostNL network, i.e. access by other postal operators to the PostNL network so that workers with disabilities can be assured that their jobs will be maintained. This is something I'm not talking about. This is ultimately about the network of PostNL and about a competence of the ACM. If Mr Moorlag, in agreement with Mrs Bromet, who also signed the motion, wishes to explain the motion in such a way that I advocate that it be discussed, I can leave it to the House to decide on this motion. I'm done with that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u252	Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u253	I very much agree with the Secretary of State because she does not have the instruments directly to do so. She has no power, but she does have authority, and I ask her to use that authority to argue that it is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u254	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u256	That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u257	We will not vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday, because then we will have Princess Day, but on Tuesday, on 25 September. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, the Members of Parliament, the stenography service, the staff, the messengers, but also, in particular, the people who are present in the public gallery for this debate. I was about to close, but Mr Bruins has a question or comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I came forward a little late. It is now unclear to me whether Mr Moorlag is going to amend his motion textually, according to the wishes of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u259	I understand you do. At least I made it up out of his words. But it's a good thing you asked. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u260	In my opinion, the question asked by the Secretary of State was whether she could explain the motion in this way, as "pleasure." I've responded to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u261	The question is whether the Acts will then be sufficient for a Chamber to judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u262	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u263	Mr President, this has become a bit of use in this Chamber, as I have noticed in recent years. When I asked if I could understand the motion in such a way that the word 'promoting' means 'promoting', Mr Moorlag nodded. Then we'll be on the same page. But you could also say to each other: adjust the word. Then it'll be in the Chamber's systems as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u264	Good. Are you going to change that one word?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u265	We are in favour of reducing the administrative burden, but I will amend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-7.u266	Thank you. Then I want to thank everyone. I wish the people in the public gallery a good night.
