ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to trade-K. The question is about the message that parents need to jump in more often than before when buying the first house. I call Mr Ronnes on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u2	Yes, Mr. Chairman, that's right. Last Friday, the message appeared that parents are more often than before indispensable in the purchase of a house. This is the umpteenth time that the image is confirmed that buying a first house is becoming increasingly difficult. On all fronts we see that the starters are having a hard time. But you'll happen to have parents who can't help you financially. Then as a starter, you're all the way in the back of the line of a lot of house seekers. The children of parents with a middle income or even less have it checked. The news shows that of the starters who bought a house for the past five years, more than a third of them need extra money. By far the majority sought support from their parents. The gap between house prices and the borrowing capacity of starters is growing. There are two reasons for this: house prices are rising rapidly and loan capacity is falling because the LTV has been at 100% since 1 January last. The CDA has the following questions to the Minister. Do you share the conclusion that it should not be the case that starters on the property market depend on rich parents? If you share that opinion, what do you intend to do about it? Do you also share the conclusion that for this target group there should be a strong addition? This morning there was a publication in NRC about creative solutions that take place locally to realize start-up homes. Maybe we can continue that route, so you're adding to it by doing smart collaboration combinations that the Empire supports? Previously, we tabled a motion with D66 to clarify the real possibilities for mortgage lending for starters. Where are you on the execution of that motion? Finally, we are surprised that many people think that the costs buyer can be co-financed in mortgage lending. In our view, this could help to provide better information. Are you prepared to put energy into that by supporting better information on the fact that the cost of buying is not possible? That is the first time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I have to say that Mr Ronnes' questions and comments have been taken from my heart, because this is precisely the problem of today. A lot of people have trouble finding an affordable home for them. That's actually true in all urban areas, not just in the Randstad. Prices are rising. There is a need for residential properties and affordable rentals in the free sector, the middle segment. For starters who want to build up their lives in the city, the urgency is perhaps the greatest. I therefore very much agree with Mr Ronnes that we need to build. That is also the intention of the cabinet. The coalition agreement speaks of that. When the cabinet was in office, I also said that as Minister responsible for housing, I wanted to encourage housing. That is why I am also consulting with all those regions where the housing market is most tense. Yesterday, for example, I was in Delft, to speak with the entire region of South Holland. The question is how to speed up the plans that are already there. What's it gonna take? Is there some kind of tight regulation? Are there long procedures that can be shortened? But in the end it comes down to the crucial role that the municipalities themselves have, because the municipalities go by the land. This is the moment. At the moment, the new municipalities are being formed and they are choosing their priorities for the next four years. I call on the municipalities where this is a problem, where there are people who can't find a place, to make an absolute top priority of building homes. This is the challenge facing the new municipalities. What is now being determined determines the policy for the next four years. The municipalities go by the land. They can make sufficient land available for purchase, the so-called start-up homes, and make arrangements for the middle hire by recording it in the issue of the land and including it in zoning plans. In short, the municipalities have a very important part to play. The college agreements must give substance to this. I hope they have heard Mr Ronnes, because it is our shared concern. Let those college agreements also be acceleration agreements. Let people not, as Mr Ronnes rightly said, be dependent on whether parents still want to co-finance, depending on others. No, there's a good offer to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u5	I am pleased that the Minister shares my view that we must fight against the division that can arise in society if you can only obtain a home as a child of a wealthy parent. That's where we'll find each other. We are also in complete agreement on the building, the priority to be given to this and that this is extremely important in all the lecture programmes that are currently being written in the country. My question was, in fact, what further steps can we take on that? One of these steps, as a Chamber, was placed on the board with you a few months ago. It's about finding solutions: can you still find space in the mortgage provision? That is one of my questions to you, which I asked the first time, but which I have not yet had an answer to. Second. Take, for example, the Focal Fund Housing Netherlands. This is an organisation that has a lot of experience in designing products that, for example, can help start-ups. Are you willing to take that up again and see if that way you can create more space for starters? Finally, I will return to the piece that was in the NRC this morning and in which you see that the creativity that is in the country can help. Are you willing, for example, to look together with the Association of Dutch Municipalities to see if you can do what by means of instruments set up under national regulations or in the form of incentives? Are you prepared to take that up with VNG?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr Ronnes did indeed have a few specific questions. I'll try to get through that fast now. We note that we are in broad agreement, namely that we must do everything we can. Much has been done in the past to stimulate demand. I think we should focus on the supply side now. Mr Ronnes rightly said that it is clear that not everyone knows, certainly start-ups, who experience this for the first time, what can and cannot be done in terms of funding. It is therefore very important that good information is given on this issue. The Ronnes/Van Eijs motion was about start-up loans. That is what I am doing, because it has been accepted and is being implemented. Several municipalities already offer start-up loans through the fund that Mr Ronnes just mentioned. When it comes to getting a mortgage at all, the mortgage platform looks at solutions such as more customization in mortgage lending and the so-called perspective statement, so that it looks not only at the type of contract but also at the future. In short, there are a number of routes which are very in line with what Mr Ronnes is putting forward here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u7	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u8	I'm missing two more answers to questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u9	You may repeat them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u10	When do you expect to come up with the result of setting out real options for mortgage lending? And are you prepared, for example, to discuss with SVn and VNG whether additional steps are possible, on top of the discussions that are already taking place?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u11	Excuse me. I should have said, "You'll be getting a message before the summer." Your last question was indeed about consultation with the VNG. The VNG is involved in the routes that are running, but I will pay particular attention to that in response to your comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u12	Does this also apply to the Housing Fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u13	The same applies to the People's Housing Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes. Mrs Van Eijs, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u16	Starters also deserve a chance at the housing market, a very important subject. We as D66 have been concerned about this before. We specifically tabled a motion, which was adopted by the Chamber at the end of last year, on the co-financing of the NHG, the National Mortgage Guarantee. Without increasing house prices immediately, starters have a little more security and lower burdens and it becomes easier for them to enter the housing market. We were wondering about the investigation requested in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u17	It is indeed a well-known point. We had the discussion about loan to value. We have chosen to maintain it at 100%, but at the request of the Chamber we are now examining whether the NHG premium can be co-financed. I expect to be able to inform the Chamber before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mr Nijboer, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mr. Chairman. On the one hand, you can do something about funding for start-ups, but on the other hand, of course, you can also prevent investors from buying whole cities, which means that start-ups no longer have a chance. I have tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject and it will be voted on shortly. I already know what the Minister thinks about the tax treatment of this, but what other measures does she intend to take to prevent investors from taking over power in cities, which will eliminate opportunities for start-ups?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u20	As I have just said in my first answer, the key lies mainly with the municipalities. The municipalities have a lot of possibilities, both in making the land available and in the planning plans, to make agreements which can lead to an increase in the middle-rental segment in cities. There's often the bottleneck. That's the smallest segment, and that's what's stopping the flow. The municipalities already had a number of instruments and have now been given additional instruments, including through the planning plans, to do more. In addition, in the context of the government agreement, we have said "that is, for the corporations "that we want to simplify the market test in areas where that is relevant, so that the corporations in that segment can become active. In my view, therefore, there are a number of instruments available to local authorities and I will also discuss this with these municipalities and with the housing corporations and Aedes to broaden it. That seems to me to be the right answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. I thank the Minister and suspend the sitting until 3 p.m.
