ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 34808 Amendment of the Law on the Prevention of Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and any other laws related to the implementation of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing, amending Regulation (EU) No. 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive 2000/70/EC (OJ 2015 L 141, p. 1781/2006... Can you turn that phone off? Oh, it's mine. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u2	Oh, this is really bad! The Warrior says he can't find him. The Warrior can't look. Oh, guys! He says he's never in my bag. Finish the phone! What a nice bite remark "So, you can turn off the phone!', And it was me. It hasn't happened before. Well, good. Anyway, there's a first time for everything. ... information to be attached to transfers of funds and repealing Regulation (EC) No. 1781/2006 (PbEU 2015, L 141, in short, the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive. I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u3	I give the floor to Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here we are: according to this cabinet about one third, today a little less, of the criminal summit in the field of drug trafficking, money laundering and terrorist financing. I understand it's a bit of a scare, but there's not much else to explain. Or maybe you do? One possibility could also be that, somewhere in the playgrounds of the European buildings in Brussels, a few officials, probably under the influence of an evening, have made a bet among themselves on who could come up with the most bizarre directive that would be adopted and worked out blindly by national governments and parliaments in national legislation. Because what are we talking about today? Money laundering and terrorist financing are major problems, so much is clear. The fourth and fifth directives are intended to tighten up European rules on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. In connection with the implementation of the Anti-Money Laundering Directive and in order to implement the Regulation, the present Implementation Act should be implemented. Mr. Chairman. To begin with, let me be clear about the position of the PVV in this matter. We are and remain a party of law-and-order. But, I say right away, when it comes to drawing up European rules and directives, we particularly want to use common sense. That does not seem to be superfluous here today. Mr. Chairman. That is why we have to comment on the objective right away. This law constantly mentions money laundering and terrorism in one breath. It's not very clear why. Money laundering is a criminal act. The goal is to use the criminally obtained money in the upper world. Financing terrorism is, in fact, independent of this. Terrorism comes mainly from religious fanaticism. You can do that with white money and black money. If there is one effective means against terrorism, it is close borders. That's gonna make a hell of a lot more sense. It is clear to everyone that terrorists are coming with them in the flow of migrants and that returning Syrians are only a real danger. One thing we know for sure: terrorism in Europe has been almost exclusively a result of the Islamisation of Europe in recent years. If you look at Wikipedia's list of global attacks from 2014 to 2017, there are 154 attacks on it. These are almost exclusively Islamic attacks. There are several lists, but that doesn't matter for the picture. It is then very strange that an organisation such as RAND Europe experiences as much opposition as they want to make a report on the foreign financing of Dutch mosques and Islamic institutions on behalf of the WODC. Recently, it was found that in 2015, when that report was made, the cabinet already had information on that funding from the Gulf States, but it did everything possible to keep this data out of sight of the researchers. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. If you read the response, you will encounter the word "terrorism" 55 times. Each time it is associated with the word "laundering" or "finance," but not once with Islam and for example not once with the foreign financing of mosques. No, terrorism is associated with PPPs: politically prominent persons. My group finds that bizarre. I would ask the Minister once again to explain all this, contrary to the facts I have just put forward. Mr. Chairman. There are two important concepts in this law which are really all about and which I would like to talk about in particular. 1. The ultimate interested party, the ultimate benifical owner, or the UBO. 2. The politically prominent person, also called politically exposed person, abbreviated to PPP or PEP. As far as the UBO is concerned, we can be relatively short. Every reasonable thinking person understands that when tracking down crimes, money laundering, for tax reasons, and you name it, you want to know who the ultimate interested party is. Therefore, the implementation of the Anti-Money Laundering Directive introduces the UBO Registry. It should include who is the ultimate interested party, or who is the ultimate interested party of an undertaking or of a legal person. However, since this register is partly public, the privacy of the UBO is also infringed. As far as we are concerned, there is a bottleneck, not only because of what is directly public, but also what lies on the street with a little bit of rooting. If this UBO is clearly a terrorist, we're fine with it, but most UBOs are of course just decent citizens. Then we find that completely dangerous. Mr. Chairman. Let me give you an example. On April 5th, an article was published in the Volkskrant about the medical record of reality star Barbie, the artist name of Samantha de Jong, who was the main character in numerous RTL-reallifesoaps. She ended up in the hospital early this year, and at first nobody knew exactly why. That didn't take long. All approximately 2,800 doctors and nurses at the Haga Hospital in The Hague have access to all data of each patient who has been admitted or ever been in hospital through the electronic patient file. Dozens of employees have made use of this opportunity, despite warning screens pointing to the possible illegal nature of their action to look at Samantha de Jong's medical records. And what happens if there's a lot of fuss about that? Three weeks later, I read in De Telegraaf that 85 employees are 85 employees! We have received a warning because they have illegally seen Mrs De Jong's file. A pitiful punishment, compared to the possible monetary gain. The Private, the Story and UBO's are undoubtedly also the Quote on the finch rope with this information. Mr. Chairman. The Volkskrant has also rightly placed a column entitled "Who has access to my bank information" in this article, in my opinion. My question to the Minister is therefore: is the moral standard for bank employees higher than for hospital staff? And what exactly is he going to do about this abuse? What is now about sanctions is not much more than the warning that management has in hand. I would also like to know whether boards of banks and other organisations mentioned in this law cannot be held personally liable for violations, including of their employees. Because that would probably really help. I would also like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the PPPs. This concerns the most incomprehensible part of this law. The questions that we have asked in the preparation have sometimes given us an understandable answer, usually an evasive answer, and often the answer 'the answer must be from Brussels'. The latter is an abomination for any reasonable thinking person to hear, but especially for PVV's, I can tell you. Let me go back to the basics for sketching out the problems: money laundering. According to the WODC I admit: according to recent reports not the most ingenious institute, but I need some to get some figures. A few years ago, some EUR 16 billion a year was laundered. The same institute notes that this is preceded by another form of crime. The basic crimes are drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, theft and social or tax fraud. Mr. Chairman. When I look around like that, I see a lot of people in this room with whom I absolutely cannot find it politically. But when it comes to these crimes, they're really not the first ones I'd think of. However, this law causes that when, for example, a notary sits at the table of a number of people who, let's say, sell an e.g. to another party, the notary in question asks only one question, a question that, upon confirmation, causes an administrative explosion: is there a PPP at the table here? He does not ask whether one of the parties is involved in drug trafficking or trafficking in human beings. He does not ask whether they are financed directly or indirectly by Saudi Arabia, Turkey or any other Islamic country. He doesn't ask if they're Muslim or have a double nationality. He's not asking if they're a tax fraud or stealing anything else. No, only the word "PPP" causes serious research. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan dan ook niet anders dan constateren dat de wet ervan uitgaat dat bij die PPP's een belangrijk deel van die 16 miljard te vinden is.]] I would like to put two questions to the Minister. Could he call at least one other social group that should subject banks and financial intermediaries to the same research regime in order to identify additional money laundering activities? In the event that the Minister could not be named by such a group, I note that the rules presented are mainly aimed at making it difficult or impossible for terrorist organisations to obtain money. In that light, I repeat what I said before, it is very strange to see how little interest this government is in direct funding of mosques from Islamic countries. The second question is: isn't the choice for PPPs actually an unauthorized form of profiling? We should not conduct targeted investigations into the possessions of Turkish Dutch people abroad in connection with welfare fraud, but we should do more research into PPPs, as mentioned here. I would like a concrete answer from the Minister on both questions. Mr. Chairman. When reviewing the debate in the House of Representatives, I found it quite comical that the spokesmen of the Labour Party and D66 seemed rather proud to be considered "politically prominent" at the bank when applying for their mortgage. It is nice to see those MPs getting their mortgage, but this kind of conversation also raises a lot of questions for my group. First of all, there are a lot of costs for the bank and work on additional studies for PPPs. At least two banks have already indicated that they are not doing business with PPPs due to excessive costs. Last week's newspaper Van Lanschot read that Van Lanschot will send away all customers who do not want to invest enough and therefore do not pay enough. In the second reply, the Minister is very light about this: he assumes that there are enough banks where services can be obtained. For my group, this answer is not acceptable. We believe that there should be a level playing field for all banks and that banks should not discriminate against PPPs. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Secondly, in the written discussion of the bill by my group, but also by other groups, the question of how far a bank can go in demanding evidence from the client to underpin its entire financial history. At some point, what the bank reasonably expects to be able to ask for information is opposed to the reasonableness of what the PPP thinks it can provide. In the opinion of my group, it is not appropriate for a bank to unilaterally cancel the bank account after an unfinished discussion, in the opinion of the client. There are simply too few banks in the Netherlands to leave the last word to the bank. I should like to hear from the Minister what guarantees he can give in this area. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I give the floor to Mr Köhler. No, to Mrs. Sent. I need to get to the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The police estimated in 2010 that some 16 billion euros will be laundered in the Netherlands. Moreover, this money comes largely from abroad: about 12 billion. Criminals channel money to the Netherlands, where they try to launder it. Dutch criminals would have tried that here for about 4 billion. The PvdA considers this unacceptable. It's bad for tax morals and it's parasitating on the state treasury. We want to make sure that companies and wealthy people make a fair contribution to a connected society. At the same time, my group is aware that the approach to money laundering is not easy. Additional investments have been made and additional people have been attracted, but an overview of what has been achieved is missing. The Dutch anti-money laundering policy is based on the 40 recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force and on EU legislation that obliges the Netherlands to conduct risk-oriented policies against money laundering. The fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive and the new Regulation on information to be attached to transfers of funds are examples of EU legislation. And the current Implementation Act 4th Anti-Money Laundering Directive amends the Law on Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and some other laws related to this regulation. During the written debate prior to this debate, my group asked questions about the delay in implementation, about the administrative burden increase that will be faced by SMEs in particular and about the impact in AMVBs. The questions have largely been answered satisfactorily. We have opted for care over haste, and negotiations on the Fifth Anti-Money Laundering Directive have been launched. The administrative burden is highly dependent on the circumstances and risks in a specific case, as indicated by the Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure Review. Finally, the detailed impact does not lend itself to the level of law and the AMvBs are put forward. As far as my group is concerned, this leaves a small number of issues, starting with the implementation of the law itself. As indicated in the reply, institutions should conduct enhanced customer investigations in all cases where there is an increased risk of money laundering or terrorist financing. To this end, the supervisory authorities in the Netherlands have published guidance documents, which will be updated following the entry into force of the present legislative proposal. To what extent are financial service providers equipped to conduct enhanced customer research, I ask the Minister. Second, the fourth Anti-Washing Directive had to be implemented by 26 June 2017. In December 2017, the European Commission already presented the Fifth Anti-money laundering Directive. It contains a set of new rules to combat money laundering. The Netherlands thus lags behind two directives. At the same time, the European Commission has advised Member States to take into account the implementation of the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive, which was subsequently published. To what extent did the Minister follow this advice? And how can he take away the impression that the Netherlands is still part of the coalition of the unwilling in the fight against money laundering? Mr President, I will conclude. Research led by Professor Brigitte Unger of Utrecht University shows that our country is in a row with Cyprus and Luxembourg as the top three EU Member States most vulnerable to money laundering. The cause lies in a combination of high profits and low penalties. This goes against my party's sense of justice. There is something to be done about that, by passing higher sentences and better detecting. The legislative proposal before us takes important steps, but there is still a long way to go. What can we expect from the government in this respect? My group looks forward to the Minister's answers to this question and to the other questions from our input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u7	Mrs. Sent, will you stand still? Mr. Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u8	Money laundering is a problem, says Mrs Sent, and I fully agree with that. What I have not heard from Mrs Sent is that this law mentions one group that plays a prominent role in money laundering. That's the PPPs. Does Mrs Sent believe that this gives a real picture of the money laundering activities in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u9	Money laundering activities in the Netherlands are wide. The present bill is a part of that. We believe it is important to tackle money laundering in a broad sense, hence our support for the additional investment and for the additional people who have been attracted. But we are questioning an overview of what it has achieved in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u10	That hardly answers my question. Of course one must look everywhere where money laundering activities can be discovered. But this law is explicitly based on starting with PPPs, because that's where you can find a large part. We're talking about 16 billion a year. If Mrs Sent thinks that is a real picture, the question is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u11	Again, as I mentioned earlier, money laundering needs to be tackled in a broad framework and this legislative proposal is only part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are discussing the Implementation Act for the European Union's fourth anti-money laundering directive. It has a number of tightenings on the third directive. I'd like to talk to you about one of them. The implementing law provides that members of the Dutch Government and of the parliament, chief executives of political parties, members of the Supreme Court, members of the Court of Auditors, directors of De Nederlandsche Bank and state companies, ambassadors, senior officers and directors of international organisations as well as their spouses, parents and children.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The proposed law therefore requires the financial institutions to conduct, in all of these individuals, politically exposed persons, called PEPs, an intensified customer investigation. Our question as to what facts are behind the assumption that these groups of people with a public function and their families pose a higher risk with regard to money laundering and terrorist financing has so far remained the answer to this question. The Minister only refers to international agreements, actually recommendations, in which these groups are referred to as risk groups for corruption. That may well be true for a country like Ukraine, but we do not think that is true for the Netherlands. Without any indication, the summit of the armed forces, of the judiciary and of the parliament will be incriminated. Volunteers performing a function in the management of a political party are considered to be at risk for criminal acts such as money laundering and terrorist financing and subject to intensified investigation by their bank. What an insult, not to speak of their family members who, according to this bill, are also getting rid of this! Does the Minister consider this proportionate? My group finds it remarkable that the international recommendations do not prescribe that domestic PEPs should always be subject to enhanced customer due diligence. This was made up within the European Union itself, because the distinction between domestic and foreign PEPs would not be compatible with free movement. This is a strange argument which my group cannot follow. What free movement? Of capital? From people? And why isn't that consistent with that? Perhaps the Minister has an answer to these questions. Moreover, I finally had to find the explanation of these not insignificant articles of the implementing law on page 55 of the explanatory memorandum. Perhaps the Minister could ask how that got there and then answer my questions 'which free movement and why that is not right'. To our question how banks can find out that their clients belong to these high-risk groups, the Minister replied that there are lists of these groups of people. The banks can apparently buy this data from one of the many traders in data we find today. Apart from the fact that I do not think this is a reassuring communication at all, I doubt that such lists exist for the parents and children of the officials concerned. Could the Minister perhaps also clarify this? If the banks have or engage in a financial relationship with a person in the risk groups, they should conduct an intensified client investigation. This applies to the holding or opening of a payment account, a savings account and an investment account, regardless of the amount paid in. In view of the letter already sent by ASN Bank to implement the implementing law, this would in practice appear to be an investigation into the origin of these clients' assets. It states that clients can support their story with pay slips, tax returns and the like. So if the child of a political party's board member opens a payment account and throws a few hundred euros into it, this whole process is set in motion. Does the Minister consider that to be out of proportion? Why is there no financial limit of €15,000 when having accounts, as in the case of financial transactions, before the bank has to carry out an intensified customer investigation? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question about the evaluation of this law. I assume that the European Commission is going to evaluate this fourth directive, as was the case at the time with the third directive, and that the Member States, including the Netherlands, are going to provide data for that purpose. I ask the Minister to report this information to our Chamber as well. In or outside that framework, my group would like to hear in a few years' time how often a client investigation into a PEP has led to the failure to enter into or break up a business relationship and how often a report to a Fiscal Intelligence Unit and/or to the Public Prosecutor's Office has led to the prosecution and conviction of such a prominent political officer or family member. Will the Minister undertake to report to the Chamber on this? Mr President, we look forward to the Minister's reply to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. I give the floor to Mrs Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It feels a little uncomfortable to debate a bill that deals with us as political leaders. But every bill, and therefore this too, must be judged in this Chamber on legality, proportionality and enforcement. Moreover, the present legislative proposal concerns not only politically relevant persons, but also their close relatives, partners and other associates. With the aim of the law, namely to detect and combat corruption, money laundering and terrorist financing, my group can, of course, only agree. But we have serious questions about the means: the means on their own and in relation to the purpose. The answers to the written questions have not provided us with sufficient clarity and have also raised new questions. Before I come back to those questions, I would like to put the purpose of the law, which is to implement an EU directive, in perspective. Reducing money laundering and political corruption is important for several reasons. I'll mention a few. Democracy requires politicians not to be bribed. Money laundering is a waste of money; money that could be used for education, health care, infrastructure, social services, culture. If we want people to pay proper taxes, we must prevent those who do not, from going free, both for reasons of fairness and to avoid worse. Individual behavior is not only determined by their intrinsic norm in most people, but is also influenced by what others can apparently do unpunished: the descriptive social norm. Hence in Amsterdam cyclists, with the exception of tourists, drive by red: you have to explain when you stop. That is why there are considerable differences within the EU between countries in terms of money laundering and corruption. Maybe you should explain it in some countries if you don't pay or receive bribes. There was once, in the forties and fifties of the last century, a mayor of Boston, I think he was the mother's grandfather of John F. Kennedy who was arrested for nepotism and in defense: but he is my son! According to Transparency International, the Netherlands scores 82 out of 100 points on the integrity index: a large 8 so. Within the EU, we share third place with Luxembourg. The average score for Western Europe is 66, thanks to Italy and Spain, and the EU average is even lower, thanks to the EU countries in Central and Eastern Europe. According to Transparency International, public corruption is "by officials and politicians abusing their position for personal gain." According to Transparency International, Defence officials, police officers and a former alderman were involved in the top five public corruption cases in the Netherlands in 2016. I am talking here about the top five corruption cases in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I ask the Minister whether it is true that local leaders and local politicians do not belong to the category of political leaders. If so, can the Minister explain that? Does he think that corruption in local politics is less likely? I also ask the Minister if he has figures on the extent of money laundering and corruption in the Netherlands by political leaders. Does he have any idea how much euro the treasury is going to miss out on every year, and not anymore? It doesn't have to be on the comma. We are already satisfied with an order-size answer: thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions, half a billion a year? So much for the potential benefits of this law. Then there's the cost. When this law is introduced, banks have to screen alongside associates, alongside politically prominent customers: close family, partners and business associates. This means administrative burdens for the screening agencies, such as banks, but also a burden in terms of time, difficulty nowadays, we often say: cognitive taxation and possibly money for the screened, including the people who have the bad luck of being associated with family ties with political prominents. This law, in conjunction with AMvBs to be determined, writes for who exactly needs to be screened. This is a substantial change with the current rules and practice, which require banks to "know your customer." Even now, banks need to map their customers. Due diligence, we call it. But it is up to the banks themselves to decide in which cases the screening, including the screening of associates, is necessary. That's what we call a principle-based approach. In practice, Mr Sent has already said that banks follow the guidelines of the Financial Action Task Force. That changes with this law. Is it true, I ask the Minister, that the present law provides for the screening rule-based rather than principle-based and that, for example, the senior parent of a politically prominent annually should be placed under the magnifying glass, even if the bank does not see any reason to do so? In order to be able to properly assess the proportionality of this law, we need to have a picture of those who qualify as next-to-members. In his written answer to questions from the House of Representatives, the Minister indicated that the elaboration of the terms "politically prominent person," "family member of a politically prominent person" and "closely associated with a politically prominent person" is characterized by "I quote a high level of detail and technical character." The Minister therefore wants to record with an AMvB who belongs to this category. My group needs an explanation of this. Can the Minister estimate how many people we're talking about? For example, from the further statement of reply and the Implementing Decision Wwft 2018, it can be deduced that the other members of a vve, an association of owners, can qualify as close associate if a politically prominent person is a member of a vve. At least there are banks that are distracting from that. I'm asking the Minister if this is true. One of my colleagues mentioned it earlier: is it true that banks buy lists of politically prominent international commercial institutions to comply with the current "principl-based know your customer" legislation? If so, will they also include the data of the close associates of such commercial companies after this law has been introduced? Does the Minister have an idea of the number of close associates to be screened when this law is introduced? In response to our written question about the estimated financial cost of screening, the Minister came up with an amount of €104 per screened per year, regardless of incidental transactions. We hear a more than three times the amount from the banks. Probably the truth lies in the middle of it with €200 a year, but let's assume that the Minister is right with his €104 plus incidental costs. Customers pay €20 per year for simple bank account. 20 minus 104 is -84. In any case, this will make the close relatives of a politically prominent, if not loss-making, less attractive to the bank. We asked in the written round whether this could cause banks to exclude these customers for reasons of return. Mr Van Strien pointed that out as well. The Minister's answer did not give us any clarity. I would therefore like to ask the Minister once again this question. That banks are allowed to say goodbye to customers if they find them insufficiently profitable, we now know thanks to the report last week about Van Lanschot. Can the Minister promise that he will not allow banks to refuse customers simply because they are associated with a politically prominent and therefore financially unattractive? According to the legislative proposal, institutions must take appropriate measures to identify the customers mentioned above. What does the Minister mean by "appropriate"? We know that bank customers have already received lists of detailed questions about account balances and their origin. Can it be appropriate, for example, to send associate political leaders such a list only if they had an amount higher than €30,000 in their accounts in recent years, or if they do not ask people above and below a certain age? And what are the precise consequences for an account holder who does not complete the questionnaire or who does not complete the questionnaire? Mr. Chairman. I also ask the Minister about the possibilities for screening of associates without the need for an effort of the screened. Every Dutchman with his debts is registered with BKR, Credit Registration Bureau, without having to do anything for it. Is anything similar conceivable for the data required under this law? People can have an account with different banks. In the questionnaires that are now circulating, she is asked to do so. Does the Minister see an opportunity for banks to coordinate, to reduce the burden on individuals? As has been said, my group naturally considers the reduction of money laundering and corruption to be extremely important. However, we have great concerns about proportionality, particularly with regard to the PEP partners and the benefits in relation to the financial costs, and the time and effort that people have to put into this. We also need more information on how institutions, especially banks, get the lists of persons to be screened. We look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Prast. I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr President. The Panama Papers have made it clear that money laundering is a widespread phenomenon, and that there are many shrewd financial structures to mask the illegality of money flows and to channel money illegally obtained through different countries and companies and thus to stay out of the picture of the government. In 2017, FIU Netherlands received more than 360,000 reports of suspicious financial transactions in our country. Indeed, after further investigation, more than 40,000 were found suspicious, with a total value of EUR 6.7 billion. The actual size cannot be estimated, but will certainly be a multiple of this amount. So we're talking about a serious problem. A problem also with serious social effects. Money laundering undermines our society and economy; it mixes the upper and underworld. Terrorism holds European countries in a suffocating grip and leads to a spiral of fear and insecurity. This Anti-Money Laundering Directive reflects the importance of a European approach to money laundering and terrorist financing. After all, criminals and terrorists do not disturb themselves at national borders. It is precisely for this reason that Europe and its Member States must work together. That seems to us to be the profit of this directive. Does this directive, as I ask the Minister, also apply to the Caribbean Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. In the written run-up to this plenary debate, the necessary questions have been asked, including by my group. The answers have clarified a number of issues, for which I am grateful, but some have not. My group has four points left, which I would like to share with the Minister. These issues concern the focus of the bill, the deployment of cryptocurrency, the policy on PPPs, or politically prominent persons, and the position of churches as "final stakeholders." First of all, the focus of the implementation law. There are always two issues at stake in the legislative proposal: the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering and the financing of terrorism. Two core obligations apply: the obligation to conduct customer due diligence and the obligation to report unusual transactions to the FIU. What is immediately striking in the examination of the dossier is that in the explanatory memorandum and the draft law the primary focus is on combating money laundering; the prevention of terrorist financing is dealt with directly but indirectly. That leads to a certain imbalance. Can the Minister agree with this statement? And in this light how does he indicate the relationship with the three other directives? This imbalance also has the necessary consequences in the present time. After all, the detection of illegal money laundering appeals to other skills and competences than the detection of financial transactions involving terrorism. It only overlaps in part. That determination is not stress-free. After all, combating terrorism through customer research requires a thorough knowledge of terrorism and terrorist profiles. It requires a different antenna and a different expertise, I think, than money laundering for tax reasons. Those skills and competences are also not at home with regular financial institutions. If this finding of imbalance is correct, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice and Security need to direct and coordinate closely. How were these key roles invested in the implementation of this fourth directive? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Money laundering and terrorist financing have clearly become high-tech. It has long been no longer a question of unsavory types knocking on an old sock full of money at a branch of a financial institution just before closing time. It is increasingly complex transaction routes that use advanced methods to evade the eyes of government and society. A number of colleagues pointed out in the written run-up to this plenary debate the use of virtual cryptocurrency to launder money. The Minister spoke about this, but my group needs a more precise answer. This concerns in particular the knowledge and expertise in the field of cryptocurrency in its department and financial implementation organisations. How does the Minister qualify this expertise? Is the knowledge available in the services in order or is there a need for additional investment in knowledge and experience? Can the execution services compete with criminals and terrorists using this virtual currency, in a market that is very similar to a "wildwest economy"? Then there is the third issue, which was discussed at length earlier in the evening: the policy on politically prominent persons, for the sake of short term called PPPs. Some banks, including mine, have already informed us, as members of the First Chamber, to be part of the target group. Let me say first of all that my group has no difficulty in saying that we too, as national politicians, are in the crossroads when it comes to unusual financial transactions. However, it has to be said, and that is a bit of the cake of this bill, which will be laid down in many, very much, in further regulations, in AMvBs. Not only the PPP itself, but also his or her family and next to associates are in the picture when it comes to such transactions. It is clear where the concept of family begins, but it is not so clear where that concept ends. That too needs to be further developed, as we are given. How far does the concept of the PPP family extend? Fathers, mothers, grandparents, children, partners of children? The possibilities are many. This also applies to the related concept of "associated persons." My group needs a more detailed explanation of this important point, which has also been raised by a number of colleagues. In his reply, I would also ask the Minister to address the privacy aspects and the extent to which family members and associated persons can be taxed in this way by means of this via-approach. How do we prevent stigmatisation of innocent and unsuspecting family members? How do we weigh the proportionality of the bill in this respect? Mr. Chairman. Finally. In this light, the Christian Union Group has also drawn attention to the position of churches, as indicated in the draft Implementing Decision Wwft 2018, Article 3. Churches, it is said, may ultimately be stakeholders (UBO). Can the Minister, more than in the reply, give some colour to the underlying motivation and reasoning of this article? Why is there such an explicit zooming in on churches, which are, in general, mainly Christian religious communities? My group assumes that the Minister refers to the broad spectrum of organized Western and non-Western beliefs and beliefs, including, for example, mosques. Please confirm and elaborate on this point. Mr President, my group looks forward to the Minister's answers to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you very much, Mr Ester. I give the floor to Mr Knip.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u19	Madam President, my group would like to thank the Minister for his answers to the questions we have put in writing and also for the way in which he has dealt with the examples we have given. The VVD, which will be clear, welcomes a tough approach to money laundering and to facilitating terrorism and considers that it is not quick enough to do so. After all, developments have not stopped and the next version of the Anti-Money Laundering Directive is already on its way. The government has made it very clear that the implementation proposal is entirely determined by the requirement of minimum harmonisation on the one hand and by the Financial Action Task Force on the other. This reduces the room for manoeuvre for national legislators. The VVD Group understands this, but has wondered whether the government, when designing this bill for implementation, has shown sufficient consideration for the requirement of proportionality in the violation of privacy of those subject to so-called enhanced customer investigation, hereinafter referred to as VCO. The requirement of minimum harmonisation certainly does not prevent rules ensuring proportionality. Many treaties, laws and other regulations and case law rightly apply very strict standards affecting people's privacy, see for example the recently introduced General Data Protection Regulation. Infringements of privacy may be necessary, for example in the fight against money laundering, but it must always be possible to justify them. They must be proportionate and, at the same time, subject to strict limits. Where a police officer is not yet able to obtain a vehicle registration without good reason or suspicion, the financial institution is not only competent, but is even obliged to include rather indefinite groups of clients in a category-by-category investigation, the politically exposed persons, hereinafter PEPs, without having to be a specific cause. This approach has been agreed internationally and is already being applied outside the Netherlands, but for the VVD it goes without saying that we also need to know exactly what we are doing. That's what's wrong with this bill. First of all, the reply states that the definition of concepts such as "final interested', "PEP' and "family' is not suitable for legal commitment and will therefore be filled in by general administrative measure. I do not see why this should be the case, where many other laws contain strict definitions of persons involved, and indeed not only in criminal law. Moreover, if this cannot be established in a legal text, how can it be established in the text of an AMvB? Would the Minister like to give further support to this and, as a follow-up, also indicate what exactly is meant by the text "... purpose and nature of the intended business relationship corresponds to what can reasonably be expected from the PEP." The VCO, the client investigation, is by its very nature preventive and risk-based. There is no need for suspicion of criminal offences and there is no question of investigative powers. That sounds reassuring, but reality is a different one. It just means that whoever executes a VCO, a random employee of a bank or financial institution, can do a lot more than an investigative officer. This, in conjunction with the vagueness mentioned above, leaves little for certain groups of bank clients of the normal legal status of natural persons in our country. There is no indication in the proposal or in the explanatory statement of how to prevent unbridled interference and curiosity on the part of random bank employees. However, this prevention is necessary. Police and justice, for example, also apply strict rules to their staff when dealing with sensitive information, whether or not already stored. This applies to many groups of employees, at many institutions. Just now the hospital staff were mentioned. It's true for them, too. What specific role, I ask the Minister, does the government see here for the supervisors? How is their so-called guidance given on this point and to what extent does the Minister himself keep his finger on the pulse? When will the rules for financial institutions drawn up by De Nederlandsche Bank and the AFM be evaluated? Can the Minister promise that the Chamber will be actively informed about this? Mr. Chairman. It will be clear that the VVD Group has some difficulty with legislation which is not exactly in the area of privacy, with legislation which can be rather fluid in its application and can therefore have serious consequences for the persons concerned and, in any case, their families and even in-laws. We are particularly concerned about the fact that large numbers of random, undefined staff are given the power to conduct those customer investigations. Sure, there is also the consent requirement of a "senior executive" per specific case, but I don't know what that is. What is the definition of a "senior executive"? Executive level? A desk head with two people? How many are there actually per institution, those executives, and what is at least their level in the organization? Mr. Chairman. This is just too easy, not to say casual. For dealing with sensitive information in the human resources and financial fields, it should be absolutely clear who is responsible for decision-making within the financial institution. This concerns what is often called the compliance function, performed by persons who are first responsible within the financial institution for both the initiative for and the correct implementation of the VCOs. The VVD believes that this compliance function should definitely be invested at management level. For my group, it is not clear how compliance on this point will now be shaped in the implementation of the new law. This is, after all, an essential point. How are the supervisors going to ensure that the institutions pay proper attention to this? Do guidance and guidance instructions have a sufficient legal basis to enforce such attention if necessary? For the VVD Group, it is essential that the physical compliance officers receive a personal appointment and that the clients involved are also clear who they are. Can the Minister promise that these requirements will be included in the supervisory guidance or perhaps even in the AMvB? Mr. Chairman. The group looks forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Cut. I give the floor to Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Every year, society misses billions because money is illegally channelled through chains of companies or trusts. Combating these practices is therefore very important, not only because it contributes to international security, but also because it is essential for the integrity of the financial system and sustainable growth. This directive is therefore important both for the resilience of the Dutch financial system and for developing countries, for example, who are currently missing a lot of income because money can easily be locked away illegally. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance therefore assesses the added value of the implementation of this Directive on the basis of both the national and the international importance of a fair and resilient financial system. Current money laundering practices do not stop at borders and therefore a cross-border and collective approach is needed to effectively combat these practices. In 1990 the first European directive to combat abuse of the financial system was therefore adopted. My group is pleased that, in addition to the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force, there is now a fourth improved directive. However, we still have a number of questions about the privacy sensitivity and feasibility of this proposal. First of all, the privacy aspects. By implementing this Anti-Money Laundering Directive, more parties will need to collect more data from larger groups of people. It is therefore important to pay sufficient attention to the relationship between the obligations of this Directive and the right to privacy. It is very important for the GroenLinks Group that the data collected will not be used for commercial purposes. Although the Minister stated in his reply that this is prohibited, we wonder whether the Data Protection Authority currently has sufficient resources to ensure that the GDPR is fully complied with under this Directive. The institutions themselves are responsible for compliance with the GDPR and for the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. So the question is: if the institutions are not doing their job properly, how will the Personal Data Authority be able to monitor this and signal it? The Minister states in his proposal that the protection of personal data is sufficiently guaranteed by the application of the GDPR. However, my group also reads in the legislative proposal that Article 15 of the GDPR on the right of access of the data subject can be excluded if an institution considers it necessary and proportionate. How does the Minister reconcile the confidentiality obligations of institutions and the right of access of the person concerned? Can the Minister indicate when he considers it necessary to restrict the right of access of the person concerned? My group also has questions with the politically exposed individuals. A lot of questions have been asked about that. What if you're a kid from a politically exposed person? You haven't chosen a parent who goes into politics and yet you may have to turn in a lot of financial data and make it known. How has the balance been made between the privacy of family members and the importance of understanding their finances in order to prevent money laundering? The bill will also require different parties to collect more data from more people. This could also increase the administrative burden on small entrepreneurs and institutions, for example. The Minister acknowledges in the documents that the regulatory pressure may increase. Several parties have stressed that the legislative proposal relies too much on a single set of obligations for all institutions, regardless of their nature and size. As a solution, the Minister suggests that customer research leaves room for an effort geared to the nature and size of an institution, but does the Minister agree with the GroenLinks Group that as long as there is uncertainty as to what exactly is expected of small entrepreneurs, this area will only create confusion? And how does the Minister intend to ensure that the new obligations become effective for this group? Would the Minister be prepared, for example, to draw up separate directives for small institutions which are more in line with the size of these institutions? Another question about the pace of implementation, because this bill should have been implemented by now. The Council of State also expressed its concern about this. The Netherlands defaulted in 2017. The Minister replied that he was not so concerned about possible consequences, but it seems important to my group to consider why we have so exceeded this time limit and how we can prevent it in the future. Indeed, the Fifth Anti-Money Laundering Directive has already been published and must be implemented by January 2020. How does the Minister intend to prevent us from following up on the facts and implementing this directive too late? A number of important elements of this directive, such as the obligation to register the final stakeholders, will also be regulated by separate legislation. But this legislation is not yet in place either. One question that we have for the Minister, in addition to the question of how he is going to speed things up, is whether he can confirm that in the end the real natural person, who is ultimately interested, can always enter the register and that these persons will not be able to hide behind directors of a trust who run their company as a director. I would like to explain this further. I also have a question about the many AMvBs that are going to follow. In the Lower House there has been a debate on this and the Minister has promised that he will arrange a veil. Will this apply to all AMVBs that will be created under this bill? Precisely because combating money laundering is a long process that needs to be evaluated each time, my group would like to see more insight into how different countries implement the directive and what the effects of the different directives have been. A motion has been tabled in the House of Representatives, including by GroenLinks, who asks to argue in the implementation of future European legislation why it is chosen which Member State option and to describe the consequences of these choices. My group wonders whether the effectiveness of anti-money laundering policy in the EU can be taken into account. Are there up-to-date figures on the situation in the different Member States, linked to the way in which Member States have implemented the options offered by the Directive? In this way we can see which approaches are more or less effective when it comes to reducing illegal financial transactions and money laundering. Mr President, my group awaits the Minister's reply with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. I give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. The draft law before us today has an important aim: to combat money laundering in order to combat corruption and the financing of terrorism. Terrorism has sown death and destruction in many parts of the world in recent years, and corruption is an evil that affects the roots of democracy. More important things are hardly there. It is therefore strange that legislation is being introduced far too late. This should have been done on 26 June 2017. An obvious question to the Minister is therefore: is the added value of these proposals in relation to existing legislation so low that much time has been wasted? Draft Law 34808 implements the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive. There were already three earlier and there is already a fifth. The legislative machinery is running at full speed. Therefore, there has also been for years implementing legislation requiring financial institutions to report unusual transactions and conduct customer due diligence. There are estimates that many billions of euros are laundered every year in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. However heavy and significant the fight against corruption and the financing of terrorism, it does not relieve us of the obligation to monitor the proportionality of the proposed measures. That's the weighting we have to make. The aim of the legislation is undisputed, but are the means used in this way proportionate? The CDA Group's questions in this brief contribution are addressed to this. I therefore ask the Minister to give an indication of how much money laundering has been reported in recent years and how much money has been collected from fines. How effective has it all been? Could he also comment on recent reports in, among others, NRC last Saturday, which reported a trial in which the police passed on names of suspected terrorists to the banks so that they could look for unusual transactions? It seems that this trial has revealed 300 payments. But how much money was it all about? Mr. Chairman. My group is generally interested in the functioning of the existing legislation in this area. After all, the present draft law builds on the existing one. What are the experiences with companies that do a lot in cash, for example? Companies receiving cash payments of €10,000 or more must carry out research. How many are there? What sectors should we think about? And what has become of their reporting obligations in recent years? Here too, please explain the effectiveness of the rules. Then, Chairman, another question. The CDA Group is in favour of not introducing additional rules in the implementation of European legislation. No Dutch headlines on European rules, so to speak. Can the Minister indicate whether or not that is the case here? As far as our group is concerned, the UBO register that is coming and the implementation of which is laid down in a subsequent law is asking for a shot. It seems that all owners of companies need to be registered. And not only them, but also those ultimately responsible for charitable institutions, political parties, churches and perhaps others. That's gonna be a big bureaucratic operation. Is the means still in proportion to the purpose? We are nailing everything in this country in the field of privacy, and here in the future the personal capacity of citizens can be made public, with all the security risks that this entails. Our group is asking the cabinet to think again very carefully about proportionality, also on this point. Then, Mr President, much has already been said about the Politically Exposed Persons. The bill extends this group. The legislation will apply to cabinet members, parliamentarians, judges, ambassadors and a few other categories. If they do a transaction of €15,000 or more, the financial institution concerned must verify whether it is pure coffee. We need to see where the money comes from and what it's spent on. Speaking of privacy. And this rule not only for the politicians themselves, but also for their family members. Is this proportional? From the written debate, I would point out that the proposal is defended by the assertion that this type of legislation is particularly necessary abroad. Does that mean that we are dealing here with legislation that is not necessary in the Netherlands? My group is curious about the reaction of the cabinet to this. What is the reason for introducing this legislation? And what are the possibilities of providing as much practical information as possible in a general measure of governance, which is in preparation on this point? Mr President, so much for the input on behalf of the CDA Group. We await the answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u24	Thank you very much, Mr Van Kesteren. Does one of the Members wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u25	I shall suspend the sitting for a short moment in anticipation of the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
