ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u1	We will begin with the questions from Mrs. Kikk on behalf of the PvdA to the Minister about the message that an imam attacks in a video Aboutaleb. Mrs. Kuik, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. In a video on Facebook, a religious creep, who calls himself imam, called our Rotterdam mayor Aboutaleb an apostate Muslim and an enemy of the Muslims. We all know what that means in his salafistic circles. Previously, he threatened Ayaan Hirsi Ali and Theo van Gogh with similar words. Such words are not therefore innocent. We can't let this go on our side. This so-called imam threatens a Dutch mayor with violence, turns people against each other and causes hatred in our society. He abuses our freedoms to deprive many Dutch people, both with an Islamic and non-Islamic background, of those freedoms, and to impose on them a certain way of life and a certain way of looking at the world. That's unacceptable. We stand for our free society and for the freedom we cherish together. After all this we see the National Counterterrorism Coordinator on TV, who acknowledges that this man is a danger, but at the same time says: I can't do anything and I can't do anything; it's a danger, but I'm empty-handed. Mr. Chairman. We can't accept that. I therefore believe that the Minister should intervene. That's why my next questions to him. Does the Minister share the assessment of NCTV and, if so, how can we amend the law so that we can do something against this objectionable imam? What measures does the Minister himself see in front of him, or does he take his shoulders and accept the situation as it is now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u3	I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u4	Madam President. Let me begin by emphasising that the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security is by no means taking responsibility for these statements. The statements made here are in an extremely extremist area. The cabinet is committed to preventing extremist speakers from spreading their extremist ideas. That is why this issue is also included in the coalition agreement. So I am also familiar with the statements of this Mr.Fawaz Jneid from January 2018. This, as you know, is also included in the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands 47, which was published yesterday and on which the National Coordinator in Nieuwsuur gave an explanation. The sermon we're talking about has led me to extend this Mr. Fawaz's ban for another six months. His statements I want to say out loud here are objectionable and contribute to an antidemocratic, unbearable climate in which people eventually face each other. However, Fawaz remains just, but just, within the limits of the legislation on hate-sowing. In the meantime, there is a danger that his statements, as the National Coordinator warned us yesterday, will give people the feeling that they have a reason for radicalisation or radical action. There are persistent concerns that Jneid could gain influence among radical young people with such statements. The high level of threat indicated in the Threat Picture Terrorism Netherlands is partly determined by the danger of people who radicalize here. The existence of a Dutch and Dutch-speaking jihadist movement strongly contributes to the imaginable terrorist threat in the Netherlands. You can indeed count on the Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security, to monitor this Fawaz very closely and will not hesitate to take it further if there is reason to do so. I will stop for a moment, because I see Mr Markuszower standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u5	First, Mrs. Kuik has the opportunity to say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u6	The Minister confirms that this so-called imam is a danger and that it provides radicalisation and insecurity in our society. He also confirms the statements of the National Coordinator: we see the danger but we can't and can't do anything. You cannot blame me for not finding that an acceptable statement, because there is a danger. It contributes to jihadism in the Netherlands and to the feeling of insecurity. So I would like to repeat my question. A restraining order is nice, but that doesn't help with the screaming and threatening by this guy on Facebook. It screams, but it doesn't do anything. So I repeat my question again: what will this cabinet, this minister do to stop this man and what he causes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u7	We hold everything this gentleman says against the Code of Criminal Law, in particular Article 137d on hate-sowing. And indeed, that article has a description of a crime that at some point knows its limitation in freedom of expression. You may know that I am equally frustrated: this gentleman seeks out the limits of freedom of expression in a very defiant manner, which unfortunately still falls outside the criminal code. We must realise that if we were to tighten up the definition of crime, we would be restricting our own freedom of expression in such a way that we would suddenly restrict people who are in good faith or, let me say, in the emotion of the debate, perhaps a little bit, too. That's the devilish dilemma that's going on here. In the meantime, I keep saying that the services here are on top of it, and that we, in particular, are also on top of it, and I think that is the worst thing about the well-being of Mr Aboutaleb and his neighbors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u8	Our mayors, our people in Rotterdam or anywhere in the Netherlands, whether they believe or not, have nothing to do with dilemmas. They want a minister and a cabinet to act. I am extremely disappointed to hear a minister repeat what the National Coordinator on the fight against terrorism and security said yesterday: we are dealing with a danger here, but I can and I cannot. I am sorry to have to conclude that this is the end of the debate here in Question Time. I find this unacceptable, and we will therefore have to jointly look for measures that will work to stop this disruptive behavior, this threatening behavior and this violent behavior of this so-called imam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u9	You are disappointed by the fact that our rule of law has certain limits and lines, which I am telling you frankly, in a situation like this, I find it very difficult. That is also why I ended by saying first of all that we are watching this person very closely and secondly that we are paying particular attention to the well-being of the Mayor of Rotterdam in this case, but also to others who come into this situation. And in the meantime, we have to talk to each other, which is why the National Coordinator has paid so much attention to this in the threat picture. We open the conversation about this that we do not accept this and that it is not part of our society. We should not allow the prosecution to be prosecuted, which they say is probably not going to be able to do. If you did, you'd be sending the wrong signal. As Minister of Justice and Security, you can certainly appeal to me for legislation that could be improved, so that we can fight this better, but we must be careful not to include something in our law that is actually playing into the hands of these people because it is actually going to restrict our own rule of law and ultimately it is still giving this kind of person space. He's doing it online now, and that's very frustrating. And I also know that such a ban has nothing but a certain meaning. By the way, a meaning that has a significant impact and which has been looked at with great attention abroad, let me say, in the sense that a Dutch judge has determined in two instances that someone, a so-called preacher, I do not know what to call that preacher, but is still denied access to an area. That's not nothing. I think that the Dutch judge has shown what the Dutch rule of law is and what we can and cannot accept. Finally, with an excuse for the somewhat long dramatic answer, the following. I am pleased that you are addressing me here and that I am accountable to you for this, because we have to show that we are disgusted by such statements and actions and we reject them because they do not belong in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u10	Finalizing, Mrs. Chicken. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u11	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u12	The Minister disgusts him and words are all beautiful but this is not a theoretical Chamber. This is the House of Representatives of the States-General and I think the House of Representatives demands the Minister to act. We do not need to discuss whether or not this is hate. It's just a hell of a call for violence. If an imam is an imam because it is an imam about a mayor, I think you can ask for an increase in the sentence, say he is an apostate, then within the teachings of Islam it is simply a brutal call for violence. The Minister can indeed instruct the Public Prosecutor to prosecute. The big question today is why the Minister is only talking about hate-sowing and not about a loud call for violence. And why didn't the minister pick up the phone this morning, call the state's attorney's office and use his powers of instruction by telling the state's attorney to prosecute this imam?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u13	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u14	One more thing. Because the Minister knows as well as I do and as well as the entire Chamber that a land ban...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u15	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u16	... this imam and all its hundreds of thousands of followers in the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mr. Markuszower!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u18	A restraining order won't help.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u19	I would like to say a few words about the latter, whether or not a ban works, but first of all about the criminal acts. The Public Prosecutor's Office has carefully placed all statements under the criminal magnifying glass and, unfortunately, concluded that they move along the sharp edges of what is and is not allowed. If you think there are any statements that the Public Prosecutor has missed or misinterpreted, you are free to report them. I have to answer here. I can explain why the Public Prosecutor's Office has not prosecuted so far, no matter how bitter and horrible it may be. Then we'll talk about the restraining order. I don't agree with you that the restraining order doesn't help. The ban is a very clear signal to the municipality and society that we do not accept this gentleman in our midst, given his remarks. This is also a signal to those young people who are in danger of radicalising. I understand Mr Markuszower's frustration at the fact that such a person in modern times... I used to talk about my youth, so that's a long time ago. Indeed, such a ban was such that such a person could no longer reach his audience. Today, such a person can also go online from another country. That's very frustrating. I can only share that frustration with Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u20	A second supplementary question. In time, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u21	I'll be very brief. Thank you the cuckoo, I tell the Minister I can report it. My question to the Minister is why the Minister does not use his powers of instruction to persuade the Public Prosecutor to prosecute himself, namely for inciting violence. The second point is the ban. The question is whether that works for the imam, but can the Minister also comment on the fact that there are 100,000 potential jihadists in the Netherlands who are willing to listen to this imam and to kill the mayor of the city? Because that is the reality here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u22	On the first point: I think I have already made that clear. So that would be a repeat. The State's Attorney General's office has made a reasonable assessment. As a minister, I can only stand for that, however annoying I am, again, perhaps also that the prosecution cannot establish that someone has indeed crossed the criminal border. As regards the second point, I have often said in the Chamber that our services are extremely vigilant about this type of activity, but also about the possible radicalisation that results from it. In the Threat Picture Terrorism Netherlands you have also seen that, unlike our southern neighbours, we still maintain the threat level in the Netherlands at 4. That was written for last Friday's horrible event in France.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u23	Terrorism always starts with hate-sowing. This gentleman will continue to sow hatred where and when he can. He's got a restraining order now, but he's spreading hate on Facebook. And I don't see a land ban on Facebook right now. If that hate-sowing is not allowed and cannot be done in a particular area, then you would say that the same hate-sowing, inciting people to violence, is not allowed anywhere at all? Does the Minister have too few instruments? Or are the instruments being used too little?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u24	It is good that Mr Van Raak raises this point. I have previously reported in this Chamber that we in the European Union are busy with the big Internet companies to get terrorist content offline. We are also working with them to provide us with the information on that terrorist content. I think that is already a very important step. We are now ready for a second group of Internet companies, not the largest, but the companies that are underneath to participate. In the long term, the Internet must be purified as much as possible from this kind of reprehensible expression. I would like to endorse that, I say to Mr Van Raak. But then, of course, we always come to a very difficult area; you know that. What I find reprehensible is another person not reprehensible. The term "purification" is also quite the wrong term. So you really have to handle that very well and carefully. Your other point concerns the area ban. Also on Facebook this gentleman does everything just inside the border. I looked at the footage just like you. Of course, I've also been briefed by the NCTV. It stays just inside the border. It's frustrating the fact that the ban doesn't work. The prohibition is intended to ensure that a person in a particular region can no longer enter the building or buildings where he can keep this kind of talk. You may not get into the area anymore, but you turn on your computer and your webcam and you're going to do it over the Internet. That's the frustrating part. You avoid any geographical physical area ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u25	In a threatened forest fire, you're harder on playing with fire than on a rainy day. In the event of a huge jihadist threat, the SGP also believes that we should be stricter on people who spread this kind of language around apostasy. Is that what our rules are for? Does the Minister see opportunities to tighten up those rules and say: get the hell out of here? That should therefore apply to our digital reality. We should not allow people there to throw oil on the fire. What possibilities for tightening up is the Minister seeing in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u26	Mr Van der Staaij is aware that some time ago, in this Parliament, I defended a legislative proposal arising from the coalition agreement and that there are a number of additional measures against people suspected of terrorist offences, particularly in the area of war in the Middle East. Of course, I am still looking into whether we can look for further enlargement. But I don't want to sell your room tubers for lemons. This is, of course, about hate-sowinging. The big problem is that, if I present the article on hate-sowing to you in order to expand it, we will soon discover that we are crossing a border with it. People are going to say: but listen, now you are going to unduly restrict my freedom of speech. Besides, I'm with all the international judges. Finally, I would like to say to Mr Van der Staaij that he is aware, also in connection with the recent debate in the Chamber, that even the fact that hate is punishable leads some people to debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u27	My concern remains with the certain powerlessness that emerges from the reaction of the government when they try to stay within those penal provisions, but they do throw oil on the fire. We can't have that with this jihadist threat. Then my question remains why, if you can impose an ordinary ban on territory, you cannot also impose a digital ban on territory.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u28	The wretched thing about imposing a digital ban on the territory is that for me, I hope you will not blame me for this, but only the Kingdom of the Netherlands and, in particular, the Netherlands. Someone can do so without too much trouble from another country which is not within our jurisdiction. I don't think it's wrong to explore ideas like that at all. We have already done that, as you can see from my answer. You have to go somewhere where we can really catch people in criminal court.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u29	I understand from the media that action could have been taken in a number of other countries, which are also states of law. Hence my question to the Minister: is he prepared to give an overview of the grounds on which these other countries think they can intervene, and in particular those countries which we call absolutely democratic and free, so countries in which people do not feel limited in their freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u30	I do not think it is a problem to give you an overview of the regulations and legal proceedings in this kind of situation in a number of similar Western European countries, Western European democracies. I can promise you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u31	I have another supplementary question. I also heard the Minister say that the Mayor of Rotterdam will be well protected. We saw two weeks ago that a mayor in the south of the country was probably threatened for other reasons. He got a gun pointed at him. Just the mayor says that after something so serious, he didn't notice anything about extra protection. From what can I conclude that the mayor of Rotterdam can rest assured?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u32	I think this is a misunderstanding. The mayor of Rotterdam is already being secured. I will not say anything else about that, because that is not the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u33	An Islamic predecessor, an imam, known to have many followers, also in jihadist circles, writes about a mayor in which he portrays him more or less as an apostate. We know that in jihadist circles, the death penalty is apostasy. In what way is there no threat, no sedition and no hatred? Isn't there really every reason to have this at least checked out by a judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u34	Then I'll go into the details of the D.A.'s trade-off. Once again, of course, I have been briefed on what is at stake. We have seen some of them on television or at least on film. Let me put it this way: these statements unfortunately do not meet the requirements of the definition of the offence of Article 137d. That is why I repeat what I said to Mr Markuszower through the President: if you think that this is justified because certain statements have not yet been taken into account, then you should report them to the Public Prosecutor's Office. In any case, you can rely on me to have looked at this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u35	I do understand the Minister's reluctance to explain, but we now have a stage on which people have these big questions and really do not understand why it is not hate-sowing. I just outlined that the imam has jihadist followers. He thinks of someone as a renegade. We know that apostasy is the death penalty. In what way is there no other crime such as threat? In what way is there no description of the crime of sedition? I don't think people who have serious questions don't understand this. Before we start interfering with legislation, I would very much like a judge to test it. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u36	No. Let me put it this way: it has been going on since 2001 or 2002 that this imam regularly comes up with this kind of objectionable statement. That was on display yesterday in Nieuwsuur. So this has been tested several times by the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u37	Theo van Gogh, Ayaan Hirsi Ali and Ahmed Aboutaleb have all been molested by Fawaz and labeled an enemy of Islam. They have in common that they are either dead or need to be protected. You cannot say in general terms: it does not meet the description of the crime; we have a rule of law. Fortunately, we have a rule of law, but the rule of law is being taunted, mocked, mocked here. And the Minister of Justice, who is standing here with his National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security, cannot say "it is unacceptable in this society" if no action is taken. He can say "I'm defending it and I think it's acceptable" or he'll say "it's not acceptable" and then we'll do something about it. As far as administrative measures are concerned, the area ban has twice been held before the courts. A virtual ban on territory is indeed a good suggestion. Then let them come from abroad. It's two-and-a-half, I'll tell the minister. Crocodile tears about how sorry we are, that's not what the people who get scared of here buy. And these are not only the well-known names, but also many Muslims in this country who want to fulfill their faith in their own way and who wish to remain free from this kind of medieval wrath.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u38	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u39	I ask the Minister for a letter in which he indicates what measures he has considered, why they could not...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u40	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u41	... and what measures he would consider stopping this. Because it hasn't been separate from that context since 2001.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u42	Let me say first of all that, contrary to what Mr Asscher fears, there is no crocodile tears. As soon as we got the chance, we really decided to ask the judge to at least start imposing an area ban. As you know, that was extended for another six months in January, because these statements were repeated. I am happy to discuss with your Chamber whether or not you should do something about certain offences within our system of freedoms and fundamental rights and our criminal law. But that's a discussion we need to have together. Because if I go on a reconnaissance trip alone in such an area, which, as we all know, affects the core values of our society, it does not have the support it needs. I believe that Mr Asscher and I both speak out, and these are not crocodile tears; I have already dropped the word 'frustration' a number of times............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. But then I would agree that the Chamber should once discuss with me how we feel that this should look in our criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u43	And you will send a letter to the Chamber about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u44	I'd be happy to send a letter to the Chamber. Sure. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u45	I still don't understand one aspect. If the judge says that this man is spreading jihadist ideas and that he is inciting the commission of terrorist crimes and is thereby a threat to national security, how can this man have this freedom? I want to know from the Minister whether he can not only send a letter, but can actually make an analysis of what crime definitions we need to adapt to ensure that this man is just behind bars. We, as the CDA, are working on this matter as far as glorifying terrorist violence is concerned, but it really cannot be the case that we are still powerless with this designation from the judge himself. So the Minister wants to do that analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u46	Before I say yes or no to that, I think it is good to realise that the decision taken by the judge, as Mr Asscher rightly pointed out, is an administrative decision, which of course has a slightly different weighting from a criminal decision. That is a first point. That is actually, may I say, fortunately, so that at least we have been given the administrative measure of the ban twice. I hope that happens again in the future, that the judge will do it again. Indeed, I have already said something about definitions of crime that do not include this. I cannot say with certainty exactly where it is lacking, because then I am going to entrust myself with an intellectual task that I may not be able to accomplish. In the letter which I have already promised to Mr Asscher through the chairman, I can tell you again which of the offences we are talking about and which of the statements we are rejecting. If that letter is discussed, then we can put it next to each other very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u47	With all due respect, I have been following this little Question Time, this debate for a while, but I haven't gotten any better. You would therefore like to hear from the Minister why the prosecutor does not see any possibility of prosecution and neither does the security coordinator. By the way, I have never heard from the public prosecutor in a formal sense a text that should show that the public prosecutor is in the hair as the minister now says, with great regret watching this course of things and having insufficient legislative capacity. I have only heard an OM representative say: we must first identify a terrorist target. What nonsense, with all due respect. Why doesn't the Minister prosecute him? He can give an instruction on the basis of 137d? I don't want to lecture, but you have to look at all these articles in the context of what's going on, and they don't lie about it. Here by an imam... Whether he is real Joost may know, but he is accepted as such in his circle of faith...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u48	Do you mind if I give the Minister the floor to answer your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u49	But I have two questions. Question one: Then why are there no possibilities to prosecute according to 137d? The call comes from the mouth of an imam in the midst of fellow believers...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u50	Mr. Hiddema, I need to interrupt you for a moment. The Minister first answers the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u51	I am going to repeat what I said a few times before, but perhaps as a gesture to Mr Hiddema to avoid that later: in the letter I made through you to Mr Asscher and Mrs Van Toorenburg, I will probably go into a number of points as well. Anyway, returning to 137d. The statements are thorough in the context in which they were made. There, however annoying, it has come out that it has been going on for a long time now that it is someone who remains close to the limits of what is still allowed under criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u52	The second supplementary question, but it really needs to be short, Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u53	The question is simple. A bar has been set and, in my best view, that has been a very crooked lat, because the security coordinator and the prosecutor in question could have seen what in this context a person with administrative power accuses of betrayal of Islam means. It is a fact of general fame that is also a legal concept that such a statement within the group of fellow believers is understood as a call for violence. That's 137d. You can apply it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u54	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u55	That's question one: why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u56	Is this another question? 'Cause the one from before was also question one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u57	Question two, then. You're supposed to be constructive opposition, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u58	Yes, but we don't have all the time Mr. Hiddema. Question Time is very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u59	Well, there's been a lot of time in fog, because we haven't learned anything so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u60	But the Minister has promised to answer your question in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u61	Yeah, but the minister's high-ranking, and he's legally trained. He can answer me as a simple lawyer and MP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u62	I'll give you a constructive answer. The National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security, I would like to recommend everyone to take a look at the broadcast yesterday in Nieuwsuur, who outlined exactly that context, that this gentleman's........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Let me really stress, in this way, through the President, to Mr Hiddema, that this context has, of course, been taken into account very clearly. Otherwise, I think it would be wise for me to write that letter and, I hope, to debate it with you once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u63	Yes, then everyone will have time to elaborate on that. Thank you. That's it, Mr. Hiddema. This is oral Question Time. Then everyone can ask two short questions. The Minister has promised to take your question with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u64	No. He can't, because I haven't asked him anything yet, and I need a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-2.u65	No. It applies to everyone. There are only two questions to be asked, and that applies to you, and you have really asked a few questions. Thank you.
