ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u1	A warm welcome to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. The next item is the 30-member debate on the new style of the social workshop. We have eight participants from the Chamber, all of whom have three minutes' speaking time. First of all, Mr Jasper van Dijk from the SP Group is going to address us. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr President. This debate is about a group of people who are at the centre of attention, a group that is mercilessly caught by successive cabinets. It's about people with disabilities. Look at the broadcast of ZEMBLA last Wednesday, read the excellent articles of Ingrid Weel in Trouw: the disabled are always the child of the account. That has nothing to do with civilization. It has nothing to do with degradation. 50 years ago, that was very different. In 1969, the Social Employment Services Act was introduced, a law that ensured that people with disabilities received appropriate work in a safe environment: the social workplace. From the 1990s on, things went south. The neoliberal austerity dogma dictated that social workshops were expensive and uneconomic. The admission requirements were tightened and financial discounts quickly followed up, until Mark Rutte and Jetta Klijnsma handed out the death blow in 2015 with the introduction of the Participation Act. The social workshop was locked. Of course, all that was accompanied by a great sales pitch. The people of the social workshop were able to work in ordinary businesses. We all know that bar doesn't end up very much. Close social workshops and at the same time close to 2 billion cuts lead to accidents. Look at Freddy Cuijpers in ZEMBLA. He was promised a job years ago by Jetta Klijnsma. Freddy's still on the couch and that goes for 80% of the SW'ers. Of the promised 30,000 sheltered workplaces 735 have come. The participation paradise appears to be an illusion. And now the government has a new plan. The Secretary of State wants to pay the people with a disability under the minimum wage. You take away their pension and confront them with a huge administrative burden. You're gonna cut 500 million in ice, and you're gonna cut the shareholders by 1.4 billion at the same time. What kind of madness is this? Is that how the government wants to be remembered? People are furious! I'd be ashamed of myself if I were you. Mistakes we all make. That can happen to anyone, but then set them straight. That is why I urge the government to open up the social workplace to those who do not work in a regular business. Acknowledging that inclusive society has its limits. Stop making cuts to the SW and to municipalities, invest in the much-needed guidance and please delete that perverse plan to pay job disabled people below the minimum wage. Save yourself a tough period of protests and resistance. The petition of "We stand up!" of Noortje van Lith and Amber Bindels has been drawn more than 60,000 times. The protest is swelling. There has to be an end to this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Before any further accidents occur, I call for reflection, for fundamental research through a parliamentary survey. Let us learn from past mistakes rather than continuing on a hopeless road without support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs Voortman from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The Participation Act is based on the idea that people with disabilities should be able to contact regular employers as much as possible. That is a fine idea which we also support in principle, because it is so important that everyone can participate in the labour market and that everyone has equal rights. However, the shortcoming in the introduction of the Participation Act was that people wanted everyone to be able to participate fully, but above all we had to spend less money on it. I also said: tough cuts, but buttery promises or jobs. Mr. Chairman. The previous Secretary of State was an incorrigible optimist. "Those jobs will come. I want everyone to get to work." I see the same style with the current Secretary of State. Optimism is, of course, good, but reality is also good. Just being nice to employers isn't gonna help everyone get a job. This also requires good guidance and investment, not austerity. In the broadcast of ZEMBLA last week, this was clearly expressed by the Association of Dutch Municipalities: we have to ask ourselves what the work of these people is worth to us. I would also like to put that question to the Secretary of State. Aren't these people worth it? Why does "more jobs" automatically mean "but for less money"? Why does the Secretary of State want to help more people to work, but by reducing the income of those same people? We will soon be discussing the pay dispensation in detail, but as far as I am concerned, this is all covered by the same question: what is the work of people with disabilities worth to us? The same applies to social employment services. GroenLinks was already concerned about the rapid dismantling of the Participation Act. Knowledge and skills disappear, but new jobs are not yet available. As Mr Van Dijk has just said, only 735 people have a sheltered workplace. At the end of 2014, 11,000 people were on a waiting list for the social employment service. 80% of them haven't got a job yet, so they're at home, and so they're not with that great regular employer. The government itself is unable to create sufficient jobs for people with disabilities. In short, it's not moving yet. But also here the mantra continues to "sustain." People now do the same work in the old social workplace, but as a sheltered workplace, for less pay and without retirement. Mr. Chairman. The sharp cuts in the WSW result in a slow but certainly increasing loss of knowledge, expertise and infrastructure. It is precisely this knowledge that is so important to provide jobs for people with disabilities. Many SW companies indicate that they could do more, not only as a traditional social workshop, but wider, as a social employer, as a leader and supporter of the different target groups towards the labour market. So it's a social workshop 2.0. Shouldn't we make much more use of that? That means we may have to make a little more money available, but isn't it just worth it to the Secretary of State? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you. Mr Raemakers from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are debating sheltered work and the working conditions that apply there. There has been a large change on this domain. I see that as a positive change. Municipalities are committed to getting people to work with ordinary employers as much as possible. That is worth a great deal to my group and D66. Just getting involved is very important for these people for social contact but also for their own development. That's the idea of the Participation Act: everyone's in. Is it all settled now? No, not by a long shot. For people who really cannot work with a regular employer, the instrument of sheltered work has been created. The numbers are left behind. The Secretary of State and this Chamber but also municipalities themselves try to change that with man and power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u7	I would like to hear from Mr Raemakers whether it is all arranged for the people who come to work with a regular employer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u8	We see that companies are very well on their way with the 100,000 jobs that need to be created. Companies are on schedule. This means that a great many workers are able to work at a distance from the labour market, but I would say to Mrs Voortman that we still have a problem there, because more than half of the workers with a distance from the labour market are still not getting to work. Half of employers are also unwilling to accept people who are remote from the labour market or with disabilities. So I still see real challenges in the future, which we can work on together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u9	Challenges in the future? Some of the people who were previously eligible for a workplace in the social work facility are now just out on the street and just sitting at home. That wasn't the intention of the Participation Act, was it? The promise of Secretary of State Klijnsma was: we're going to help people work with regular employers. But at the same time, if you cut back on the guidance that municipalities have to organise, it is not surprising that people come home?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u10	There are two or actually three ways in which people can get to work: with regular employers, with sheltered work or through day-to-day spending. We see that a group actually falls a little bit between ship and ship. Last December, together with Mr Bruins of the Christian Union, I received a motion on sheltered work to look very closely at the people who are now falling apart. That is also the group of people Mrs Voortman is talking about. What can we do to ensure that anyone who wants to do so is able to work in the labour market through section A or via section B of the directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u11	It is precisely that social work provision that exists for people who, as Mr Raemakers says, fall apart. The Economic and Social Council has carried out an exploratory study and has said that we must maintain social employment in a new form. Does Mr Raemakers agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u12	That's what we think. We do not think that they should be retained entirely in the old form, but I do think that the expertise and instruments used by the social workshops are very useful to be used for new sheltered work. So I would really like to call on all the municipalities, because a lot of municipalities are lagging behind with new sheltered work to see how they can create new sheltered work at the existing social workshop, so that a social workshop can come up with a new style.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u13	The Economic and Social Council is concerned, because we now see that some municipalities are saying goodbye to social workshops, while the Economic and Social Council and Mr Raemakers say that we need them so badly. So I think Mr Raemakers is on my side when we say that the social workshop should remain available in a new form throughout the Netherlands, so that we can help and keep everyone at work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u14	That's what municipalities are about, of course. That's what labor regions are about. I, too, have read the opinion of the ESC. There's some really good stuff in there. I am therefore sticking to what I have just said: I would really like to call on the municipalities to use the expertise and tools of these social workshops as much as possible. But if the municipality of A fills this in a very good way, in a just different way than the municipality of B does, I am not necessarily against it, because that is also the concept of decentralisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr Raemakers admits that not all employers are eager to employ people with disabilities. Now you can see that the social employment service has already done a lot of posting. That's gonna take away a lot of trouble, because that employer's gonna have less worries. How does Mr Raemakers feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u16	I think it is very important to relieve employers in this too and to ensure that people can get to work quickly and easily. In this respect, I think that we have a huge challenge together to ensure that half the people who are not working anywhere now can get to work somewhere. So that can also be through new sheltered work. This is somewhat similar to what Mrs Van Brenk says, that is to say to the old social employment services. There's some resemblance in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u17	One more try. That was the old style of social work, but the new style can also be that we give them a great role in the relief of employers, because this cabinet seems to have a great deal of attention to it. They have a large network, they have facilities. If the employer is no longer able to place people, then at least they have a fall back to work within the social employment system. How does Mr Raemakers see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u18	I think I am repeating myself, because we really think it is very important that anyone who wants to do so can get to work. Even when we look at, for example, the Wajong, we see an enormous number of people who are still unable to get to work. Actually, that's my priority. In order to answer the question of exactly how to do that, we have a great deal of work to do in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u19	This debate seems to go on again that we will be told at the end of the journey that no one is responsible here anymore and that everything lies with the municipalities. But the municipality has been given a task. If we look now at the social unrest that has arisen, which was very visible in last week's broadcast of Zembla, it would be fantastic if D66 would take a look at it and say: okay, I will release the systematics that we all thought of in The Hague and we will get something back. You could take a step because you are in the cabinet, by saying, for example, that there is so much unrest now, which I am taking away by saying that sheltered work takes place in social workshops. Can D66 promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u20	You actually ask the Secretary of State or the Secretary of State. I do not want to make any promises here to Mr De Jong of the PVV. I would like to say what our commitment is and what our questions to the Secretary of State are. We asked for this plan of action in the budgetary procedure. Before the summer, the Secretary of State comes up with a plan of action on how to complete the new sheltered work and how to ensure that many more people can get to work through sheltered work. Frankly, I'd like to wait and see what's in it. I may be able to respond to that again, but I fully agree with the PVV Group that we really need to do something to ensure that more people can get to work through sheltered work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u21	D66 does not agree at all with the PVV that more people need to work through sheltered workplaces because otherwise she would have promised it now, not only to me but also to the people in whom this unrest has now arisen. Because D66 is in the cabinet, she can get those sheltered workplaces into those social workshops. Why do I say that? Because those places in the social workshops have been demolished, you know that too! So if we want to restore this, we can take a step forward by saying that we are sheltered from people with a distance from the labour market, which is currently experiencing enormous unrest, and that we are allowing social workshops to take place. The advantage of this is that the expertise and the locations are already there. So you can say right away that no other social workshops are being closed. Surely that would be a fantastic commitment, not so much to the PVV, but to all those people who are in uncertainty at home and haven't been working for years through government policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u22	Just a little nuance. The social workshops are not completely demolished. People who have a WSW indication also keep it and they can also work through social workshops, even in the coming years. I fully agree with the second element of Mr De Jong's question. I also read this in the ESC opinion. In my opinion, the Secretary of State said in the Cedris lecture that it is very important to preserve the expertise and tools of the SW companies. But what I wouldn't want is for The Hague to centralise what we have decentralised to the municipalities with the Act of Participation. In my opinion, a lot of municipalities are doing well and we need to see how we can help the municipalities even better. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. If you look at the terms of employment, you can see that in this respect there is a distinction between someone who can work through sheltered work and someone who can work through a regular employer. It's been mentioned a few times. The Secretary of State will come forward with a plan of action before the summer. I would like to read what the Secretary of State can say about the distinction between working conditions in sheltered work and work with a regular employer. Can the Secretary of State take that into account in the plan? Second. A number of municipalities indicate that there is not enough budget to maintain the infrastructure of SW companies. That point has just been mentioned a number of times. Could the Secretary of State perhaps indicate how the ibp, the inter-administrative programme and the March circular influence this? Is there anything in the barrel that might make it easier for municipalities? Thirdly, there are still a lot of municipalities on the list which do not have to create sheltered workplaces at all, or which, for example, have waiting lists for sheltered work. That's what I'm worried about. The Knowledge Document states that, as more indications are issued, the target for the following year changes. But then what happens in the meantime? Could this mean someone has to wait a year or more than a year? That's a long time. What is the role of the UWV in this? In some cases it is the responsibility of the UWV to provide a temporary place, but does the UWV also pick up this role? Finally, I have a question about the WSW thermometer. In the planning letter, during the AO on the Participation Act and in the reply, the State Secretary indicated that the WSW thermometer would come to the Chamber in the first quarter. It would provide information on the relationship between the WSW budgets and the actual development of volumes. Can the Secretary of State give us a little more insight into that today? I think this will help us all. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u23	One more question from Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u24	I had hoped for a little more reflection from Mr Raemakers, starting with the last week. There have been quite a few shocking broadcasts, from ZEMBLA, but also from Pauw and Nieuwsuur, and the ladies Noortje and Amber get huge support for their petition. Something is not going well with the treatment of disabled workers, so was my impression, to express the light. Does Mr Raemakers share that impression? Does he agree with me that something really needs to change to meet these people, who are now furious?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u25	I understand Mr Van Dijk's question from the SP very well. I've also seen the broadcasts of Nieuwsuur and Pauw. Sometimes there were poignant examples of people who very much want to work somewhere or of people with huge limitations who rightly worry about their future. I understand these concerns, too. You want to talk specifically about the proposal for a pay dispensation. My group says that we should look very closely at this in the coming weeks. We'll have a technical briefing tomorrow. Next week or the following week, we will probably have another round table on this subject. Then we'll talk about that in the Chamber too. I think we should then have the debate on this. We certainly have an eye for that. I did not say that today because my group would not be aware of this, but because today's debate is about the social workplace new style. There is also another very important discussion. Let's feed it for the next few weeks. We're not running away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u26	It is quite right for Mr Raemakers to say that, because I believe that one cannot be separated from the other. In fact, we are now seeing people who are no longer able to enter the social workplace and sit at home on the couch and who are now faced with the proposal to pay them below the minimum wage, if they come to work at all. As far as I'm concerned, they're literally falling apart. You said you were going to take a very good look at that proposal, and the President also heard it. That's what grows expectations. It seems to me quite right to look at this very carefully, because that proposal is raging on all sides, that is my impression. And the least you could do today...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u27	What Mr. Raemakers could do...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u28	That's right, Mr. Chairman. The least Mr Raemakers could do today is to say that we are also going to look very closely at whether the social workplace cannot be opened up to people who we now know will not get regular work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mr. Chairman. I agree with the latter. I think we really need to see how we can ensure that people who fall between shore and ship, who may have been at welfare level for years, get to work. This can be through new sheltered work, and physically perhaps in a social workshop; that will depend on the municipality. Secondly, I think it is very important that those people, when they take that step to work from welfare or benefit, actually get better, so they really do notice in their wallets that they are working. So they have to make an effort and see in their wallets that they are really improving. These are very important conditions for our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u30	A further question from Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to build on those conditions. Is it still an important condition for D66 that there is a mission per municipality for the amount of sheltered workplaces she needs to realize? I ask this because the Secretary of State refers in the outline letter to pay dispensation to: the rules for municipalities to offer sheltered work have been tightened, 'if needed'. But the task of municipalities with regard to an x number of sheltered workplaces still stands, also for Mr Raemakers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u32	Yeah, I'm sure that's a mission. In fact, I don't think we're sharp enough to do that. So I want municipalities to make a real start on that. What I can also say is that the motion by Mr Bruins and myself from the last budget debate states that we are asking the Secretary of State to look again at the legislation and regulations on sheltered work. That also means, in our view, that this regulation might perhaps be changed because the Secretary of State is going to find out something that needs to be changed, so that people can get to work easier and therefore much more through sheltered work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u33	I am glad that D66 also says that this task is with municipalities, and that municipalities, if it says 'if there is a need for it', cannot therefore wait and see if people report to them. I'm glad that's so clear, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u34	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u35	Make someone happy again! Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u36	Thank you, Mr President. It has been said several times: there is enormous social unrest. And as far as I'm concerned, that's right. I referred to ZEMBLA, but it was also very well expressed last Monday evening in Nieuwsuur and in Pauw by, among others, Noortje and Amber. It is, of course, about the plans for pay dispensation, which we want people to work below the minimum. But the main question of these brave people who speak out, but many more people behind it, is: are we part of it? Yes, of course you are! And that includes normal conditions. This includes a policy that looks with that eye at proposals to improve the position of those people. That is why I am strongly in favour of a social work provision 2.0. It has already been recalled: the Economic and Social Council, employers and employees, concluded after a few years of participation law that it is not going well enough. People get entangled in the system, they don't get out and they get on the couch. It is precisely that social work provision that is of the utmost importance as a springboard for people, but also as a shelter for when things are not right. After all, there are many people who end up with a normal employer from social services and after one or two years they find that they need to go back. Our current system is so regulated that the rules say they can't go back. The only way back is towards a benefit, home on the couch. We set up a system with good intentions, but people get caught up in it. We need to create a system that will help people, not stop people. That is why the following is important, and that is also my main question to the Secretary of State in this debate: can the Secretary of State actually accept those recommendations of the Economic and Social Council, of employers and employees? Is the Secretary of State prepared to maintain social employment 2.0 in every labour market region and to make sufficient money available for it, as a springboard for people but also as a shelter for people? Because now it's true that the system determines that you can't go back once you're in the regular job. Let's finally change that system. There is broad support in society. Let's do it together. That's my main question to the Secretary of State. Next, I come to the working conditions for people in the social services sector. There is no longer a collective agreement in the social employment sector. Is this Secretary of State prepared to look with the municipality and with employers to see if there can be enough money to work on normal working conditions and a future perspective for people who are now working in social employment? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the pay dispensation. Yeah, we're gonna have the debate about it. But it's an antisocial measure. It's something we shouldn't do. Many people, here in the gallery and also at home in the bank and in the media, are right to speak out and say: let us not do this. Everyone's part of it. This includes equal conditions, a normal wage and a normal pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u37	Thank you. It's not about the pay dispensation today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u38	I welcome Mr Van Dijk's glowing speech from the PvdA. It could have been the argument of 50PLUS. Mr. van Dijk, does this mean that you say that the Secretary of State for PvdA House, Mrs. Klijnsma, was too optimistic, as Mr. Voortman put it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u39	At the time we were talking about three or four years ago, Secretary of State Klijnsma and the social partners developed a model for getting people to work as much as possible with a normal employer. But that was a theoretical model. We must now note that ZEMBLA has rightly called for attention to be paid to the fact that there are far too many people at home. And that is a bitter observation. That was never the objective at the time, but it is the result. Then I also think that as a policy we should learn from it and say that this social work provision is actually crucial to helping a lot of people in the Netherlands to get to work and to offer perspective. After a few years of participation law, therefore, we have to conclude that it is not good enough and that we need to improve that social employment provision. That is why we really need to shape social employment 2.0.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u40	I remember an action at the Malieveld, with the target group up there, in the public gallery. Mr Samsom said: no one will find out about the geraniums. We have to note that a lot of people are behind the geraniums now. Could Mr Van Dijk briefly state what has gone wrong and what should happen now? That's what Secretary of State Van Ark is learning from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u41	A fair question from Mrs Van Brenn. There's a lot to be done. We should not close down the social employment services, but redesign them. We must ensure that we have sufficient money, both for social services and for municipalities. The municipalities have an important role to play in guiding people. Above all, we should not want this pay dispensation. For example, I see a number of measures that we need to take together to ensure that people can participate again and that no one is left out. If I may say one more thing: that also means that we in The Hague should stop referring to municipalities all the time. Mr De Jong said that. We in The Hague too have an important task, a public task, when it comes to social services and to getting people to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u42	Thank you. Then Mrs Van Brenk of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u43	Mr. Chairman. It has been said many times: last week's broadcast of ZEMBLA shows that we are on the wrong track with the social services. Covered work, which, according to this cabinet, has another 20,000 jobs to add, on top of the already planned 30,000, is a joke when you realize that no 750 people have actually been placed. The old style of social work provided a need. People found a protected workplace there and did it according to their ability. 50PLUS asks: what is the new sheltered workplace more than a big cut with a new sticker on it? It is theoretically more activation, at the expense of decent payment and pension security for the target group. Allowing people to participate to the maximum is excellent, but participation is far from feasible for everyone. Social employment remains necessary, whether we like it or not. Does the Cabinet recognize this reality? Aren't vulnerable people the victims of the cabinet "everyone just get to work"? Employers mainly do not want to employ disabled people, especially not in permanent employment. Posting with limited overhead costs is then a good option. 50PLUS wants to honour the SW companies with their expertise. If development companies develop those people with disabilities as far as possible to the highest possible level of employment, preferably outside the social services, but if they fail to do so, an individual posting is the best second. Group posting is a third possibility. If it does not succeed at all, there must be permanent, full shelter within the SW. All this should involve work with adequate remuneration, with corresponding remuneration and a pension scheme. If the best employees are to flow out, we must realise that they are the ones who are responsible for the end-of-life exploitation. Healthy business lines absorb losses from weaker business lines. If you want the best people to pour out, then you also have to accept that money has to be added every year. That is decency and that is a political choice. Leaving people at home with benefits also costs money. The SW's infrastructure has been largely destroyed since 2015. It all had to be different, it had to be better, with much less money. The example of Venlo is poignant. A lot of people lose their jobs and their senses. We must not continue to close the SW companies. At 50PLUS there is also a petition on the website We Staan Op! We call on everyone in the Netherlands to support this petition, because we support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u44	Thank you. Then there is Mr Peters of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Six years ago, I was alderman in Oss. Patrick appeared at my desk. For years he had worked at Organon. Like a man of all kinds, he did all kinds of things there. He can do a lot, but he can't do everything and not everything just as quickly. Because Organon had started blowing a less social wind after years, he was suddenly out on the street. Now what? In the meantime, Patrick works to everyone's satisfaction as a postman. He is posted through the IBN, our social work facility, so I say to Mrs Van Brenk. We'll see each other at regular intervals. On Monday he organised a meeting about people with a distance from the labour market, where Mr Heerma and I were guests. Patrick's fine, but people are worried. And I understand that. Mr. Chairman. Work is important, and it's important to everyone. Not just to make money, but because a person also needs a reason to get out of bed: a piece of meaning, knowing that you are useful and important in this society. This can be regular, which can be posted from the Social Employment Service, which can be used by a work company of the employment service, which can be sheltered and can be used as a day's work. Municipalities are responsible for helping people to work; it is important to realize that. This applies to people who are not able to flow in regularly but who depend on sheltered work. Municipalities have to offer these people a job. They're getting resources for it, too. Mr. Chairman. In theory it is simple, but in practice it is often less easy. It is simply true that until recently municipalities have not made sufficient efforts to fill jobs in sheltered work. What is the current state of affairs there? What will the Secretary of State do to encourage municipalities to do more? Are the criteria perhaps too strict? In the meantime, I've been calling around Brabant municipalities. In this case, people were shocked when people heard how much money municipalities get according to the last March circular. It's so much. With the State Secretary's current plans, municipalities are given even more resources to offer sheltered jobs. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that that money is put into use quickly and correctly and that those sheltered jobs are there? Mr. Chairman. In theory, the CDA is quite well organized, but it stands and falls with the execution. In practice, I also see very nice examples, of Patrick's postman but also of Macek Technika from Oss, where dozens of people from a distance from the labour market are being hired. I see partnerships emerging between social work facilities and municipal social services. Social Employment Services have plenty of assignments, but because of the inflow stop in the old WSW they simply have too few employees. They hire regular employees. They use the existing infrastructure to do what needs to be done. Unfortunately, I also see municipalities where people are more or less left to their fate. What is the Secretary of State going to do to encourage municipalities that are not doing well to pick up the glove properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u46	I also know the colleague from when he was alderman. We've been in action with you once. You were a very involved alderman. I'm totally surprised you're saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u47	That Mr Peters says...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u48	Sorry. I am surprised that Mr Peters of the CDA says that he made a call to municipalities and that they had so much money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u49	Well, had...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u50	Well, get it. All I hear is that there's a screaming shortage to properly implement the Participation Act. Perhaps Mr Peters knows more than all the others, but our alderman in Nijmegen still lacks a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u51	Sorry, Chairman. I'll pay more attention next time and don't answer right away. That's a reaction I have a lot of times. The March circular that has just arrived shows that municipalities are going to receive a lot more money than before. They did have problems. I, too, as an alderman in Oss, didn't have enough money at all. We could only just get out with the money, given the big cuts. Then I also realize that the Work Supply and Social Workshops in Noordoost-Brabant were among the white ravens. Of course, we were very tight on that and we were short on it. All I'm saying is that we've now got a March circular showing that municipalities are going to get a lot more money. Through this place, I immediately make the following appeal to all colleagues from the parties that are now at the table in coalition negotiations: use that money in the right way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u52	I've got one small point. It is said that everyone has to get to work. You called, too. Do you also think that social employment can play a dominant role in ensuring that the infrastructure works properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u53	I'd think it was stupid not to. It's not a law. Municipalities go over. But the letter from Cedris, which arrived on 10 April, also states that in the majority of cases the conversion of a social employment facility to a social enterprise 2.0 is what I call it. In a quarter of the cases there is a phasing-out scenario, which I personally would not be in favour of. In some cases, they just break it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u54	Mr Peters knows that there is a huge objective. Tens of thousands of people must be placed in the coming years. Now, if we look at what the municipalities have realized, it's only a few hundred. Of course, that's great for the people who have been helped, but there are so many more people who need help. Now I hear Mr Peters asking all kinds of questions to the cabinet, but he himself does not give what he wants. He's right to say it's in the municipalities. That's right. But wouldn't it be fantastic, since the CDA is in the cabinet, to say that in terms of the sheltered workplaces and the objectives we have agreed on, or at least the cabinet has agreed on, those social work facilities are no longer being closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u55	I'm not talking about social services being closed down. I have already indicated that I personally would find it very unwise. I think you should use and develop the expertise that social work facilities have often had for decades. Cedris also wrote in that letter on 10 April that most people say: we can just do that. Just use it, I'd say. But something is true or not true; it cannot be true at the same time and cannot be true. So the logic is that if we decentralize, we can't impose things from here at the same time, even if I think it's stupid. I would call my CDA colleagues myself and say "don't do it," but we cannot decentralise and then impose on them from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u56	Well, there's been a task set from here. It has been said: listen to your friends in the municipalities, you simply have the position and the duty to help people from a distance to the labour market. We see now that it doesn't seem to work, with all the good intentions there are. Only 700 people have been placed while tens of thousands of people are waiting for an opportunity. In any case, tens of thousands are needed to be placed in the coming years. I'm looking for a hole, a hole for a solution, to remove unrest. Why not say now about the tasks that have gone to the municipalities: implement them and use the social work facilities for that purpose? Then the unrest is removed, people see that there are social workshops that are closing and they know that places are going to be created there, and then municipalities also know where they are going. Wouldn't that be a great solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u57	Well, not as far as I'm concerned. As far as I am concerned, the solution is that people who have to have sheltered work also get sheltered work. That's what the municipalities get. That is decentralized; about how they go themselves. As far as I am concerned, they do so in the social employment sector. It would be weird, and I think it would be harder to solve things differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u58	Yeah, but still, that's the reality. Mr Peters himself says that there are simply municipalities that decide to stop the social workshops or to cut them down. At the same time, Mr Peters says: I think this is a stupid thing, and we cannot do anything from The Hague. But we can learn. I believe that this is also our task here in The Hague, after a few years. The strength of that social workshop is to help and keep people at work. We see that the Economic and Social Council, employers and employees, is presenting a report. We see that several municipalities are arguing in favour of this. We even see that the dome organisation Cedris says: let's give some direction from The Hague. Why aren't you prepared to do that? Why is Mr Peters not prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u59	Well, Mr Peters, together with Cedris, says that this is how a majority of social services work. A quarter has found a way I think: they are indeed going to give that sheltered work. The old WSW is a phasing-out scenario that I think is expensive. But I can't look into every municipal calculation. Maybe we can do it in a few cases. In a few places it really gets cut off, but then they still have the same goal: to provide shelter for the people who need sheltered work. I'm much more interested in why it's only possible for 700 people at the moment and not for much more. That's the same question I asked the Secretary of State. How is that possible? Is that based on criteria? Is that based on conditions that aren't there? I don't know. I ask for this and I also ask for the current state of affairs. I may be able to respond to that in second term, but I need to know what that is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u60	One more step back, though. It is rightly said, by many parties: preserve that knowledge and skill. That is very important, precisely in order to help people towards sheltered work, because the municipality itself does not have that knowledge. Now we're all just throwing away knowledge in the next few days. It keeps people at home on the couch. Let us be wise and say to each other that we are acting lightly from The Hague and say to the VNG: do not do it, create a spreading network and preserve knowledge and skills. Then we have the best of both worlds, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u61	I really don't think we can decentralise tasks from The Hague to the municipalities, find that a lot of municipalities are on the way very well, do a lot of work which is always going better and is fine and then, if some of them are apparently not going well, Cedris also says: no, we're going to reverse it, we're going to recentize. I don't want to. The tasks lie with the municipalities and I think we should check here that they are doing what is agreed. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u62	Mr Peters points out that municipalities are shocked by the amount of money they are getting now. But many municipalities already have to deal with deficits. Municipalities must also realize more than 19,000 sheltered workplaces. They need to get more people to work. That little extra money that is regulated in the government agreement simply evaporates in relation to the tasks and deficits that municipalities already have. So which municipalities claim they're swimming in the money now thanks to the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u63	I certainly did not say that because of the coalition agreement. I have said that the March circular for municipalities is far more positive than they had calculated in the longer term. That's because as a government uphill, upstairs together, we go down stairs together. Now we're going up the stairs together. This creates much more financial space than municipalities until recently thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u64	So Mr Peters also admits that that extra money in the March circular is far from enough to close the gaps that have arisen in recent years. That is different from what he said earlier, namely that municipalities are shocked by the amount of money they get. If Mr Peters thinks otherwise, then I want to hear names and numbers of municipalities saying: well, we really get a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u65	No, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Voortman twists my words a little bit or I haven't said it clearly enough. What I want to say is that in the past period, when I was alderman myself, municipalities always indicated: we are very tight in our budget, we are short. We sometimes have surpluses on the Wmo, which we have all seen. We have had surpluses on youth care, but now we have deficits on youth care and perhaps deficits on the Participation Act. We all counted on that, and we all said that there was sometimes a surplus and sometimes a deficit. At least we've all been worried about the money, about the lack of money. I have indicated that in the March circular, which has just arrived and is or is being passed on to most municipalities, it appears that they are going to get much more money than they thought until recently. I didn't talk about whether all that's enough. I don't know. In any case, the problem is much less serious than was previously thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u66	I think this is a crazy story. You cannot say, as a representative of the people, that I personally do not think it is smart, you even think it is silly to close a social workshop, but I am not going over it. People can't do anything with that. You are a member of the coalition here and you are a representative of the people...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u67	Mr Peters is a representative of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u68	I've been waiting for him, Mr. Chairman. There he is. Mr Peters is a member of the coalition. Or he says: we're not going to take this, those social workshops of course remain open. Or he says, "I don't care, and the locals are just trying to figure it out." But this half-argument is a bit of a cheat on people. Do you recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u69	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk, through the chairman. No, that's bullshit, of course. Look, it's very clear. You also need to be a bit of a job- and role-proof, including you as an opposition member. You are, because you talk to me about everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u70	Mr Van Dijk is from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u71	Mr Van Dijk is of the opposition and fairly stable, may I say. But he's also a member of parliament and not an alderman. I'm not. So I said, "If I am alderman, it was me," then I have a role to play in implementing municipal policy as well as being properly decentralised from The Hague. I have an opinion on that. At the moment, I am very much a Member of Parliament and a Member of Parliament and I am not going to say: we have just given this to the municipalities to implement, but in a limited number of cases that does not go to my liking and I will take it back. This makes me extremely rolling and very clear in my statements and is also very clear what I would think of that as an alderman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u72	Mr Peters says that he thinks it is stupid, but that it is not about it. People don't buy anything for that. In addition, Mr Peters always refers to the letter from Cedris, which lies here. Cedris is the umbrella organisation of the SW companies. It simply states that the reduction of 1.8 billion due to the Participation Act was too much; we need at least EUR 400 million to repair the greatest damage. Then it is incredibly weak to say here "I see that municipalities are doing well here and there," while they are still being cut down to this day by the government, under the leadership of the CDA, which is in the coalition. Put your money where your mouth is. If you want to leave it to the municipality, make sure you have sufficient resources. That's what you're talking about, Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u73	I have not heard a question, Mr President, just observations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u74	The question is crystal clear. If you think it is up to the municipalities, make sure that they have sufficient resources. Are you willing to do that, or aren't we going to get it today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u75	Mr Van Dijk, you are very rolling. You're reading from part of Cedris' letter. All I can see is that they are indeed saying that the cuts were very substantial. In some places, it's okay. In some places money has to come from other municipal jars. That's a pain in the ass for municipalities. Sometimes they have to. At least the task lies there. If municipalities have to take money out of that social domain, they have to. What I am saying is that until recently the problem as outlined was not as big as it appears.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u76	A good sailor gets wet sometimes. So far. We are going to listen to Mr De Jong of the Party for Freedom Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u77	Mr President, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to pay tribute to all those people who are working in the social workshops. Not only the people in sheltered workplaces, but also the counselors in the social workshops deserve a plume. I say this not only because there is now a debate about the cuts that are going on, but also because of the way in which these people have to look at them. They see how important it is that there are places available all the time, how important it is that social workshops should or should not continue to exist, but at least that people with disabilities should get to work. In the meantime, they see that there's an enormous amount of uncertainty. Mr. Chairman. That uncertainty could be removed if this Secretary of State were to say right away: best friends there in these municipalities, let's solve the mess that has arisen in recent years, let's get rid of the unrest and start realizing that no social workshop is being closed, that sheltered work is being carried out in social workshops and that those places are being made available to all those people who are waiting now and have been waiting for years for a place to work, so to speak. Because, Mr President, it is embarrassing that if you say from The Hague that there is a task for tens of thousands of people for the coming years, you have to note that only about 700 people have actually been posted. I really appreciate that for those 700 people, but what do you say to all those people waiting? In ZEMBLA was a gentleman who was on a waiting list to get access to a social workshop. He saw Mrs Klijnsma, Labour Party, on television saying: I see no problem at all, my expectation is that this gentleman will get to work within a very short period of time. Three years later, he's still at home. That's not the way you deal with people, is it? That's impossible, isn't it? So my request to this Secretary of State is therefore to, where she has previously advised against doing so, strongly ask municipalities to ensure that we retain the expertise that is now available at the social workshops, that we do not close the social workshops anymore and that we stop taking the measure to pay people under the statutory minimum wage, that we do not do so. And why not? Because now we see what a great social unrest that causes. People want security. Mr. Chairman. That is in short what I would like the Secretary of State to do. I have the expectation that she will say, as she has done before, no, that lies with the municipalities. That's diving away from the responsibility you could take. However, I am a hopeful person, so perhaps there will be a Secretary of State who will answer questions from the PVV that social workshops will be maintained and that people will be able to get to work there as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u78	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The most important thing for the VVD is to participate and participate. We want to offer as many people as possible a job opportunity. The Participation Act, which we introduced in 2015, should ensure that more people find work, including those with disabilities. The essence is that we look at what someone can do instead of what they can't do, unlike the old social employment services, where people who had more in their march were actually not sufficiently stimulated and thus prevented in their development. The VVD still fully supports the introduction of the law. We believe that people with disabilities should also have an equal chance and get regular jobs. That calls for customization. There is a large role and a responsible role for city leaders and municipal councils. They must ensure that people from their congregation receive the support they need. Mr. Chairman. If you want to deliver customized work, it also includes the possibility that people may receive a different reward for apparently the same work. Because it's about customization and the development of every human being is different, it's also not weird that it can happen that people with different regulations and rewards do the same work. I'm repeating myself a little bit, I see. For one, this task is a first step or next step in his or her development. For the other, it may have been the last step in a very long development process. I can imagine that this is not always understandable for people in the workplace or feels righteous. But the VVD wants people to have the space and opportunity to develop themselves as much as possible. As far as the VVD is concerned, arrangements should therefore be aimed at supporting you in order to make the most of yourself. In doing so, we increase the opportunities for people with disabilities at work, so that talents of people with disabilities can also be brought to their attention by regular employers outside the walls of the municipal work company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u80	A question from Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u81	I'm listening very carefully, but the VVD says something very solid here. We have the starting position in the Netherlands: equal pay for equal work. We have fought for this in Europe even in the previous cabinet. But now the VVD says: no, not for some people; for some people there must be customization and it is possible that there can be no equal pay for equal work. Then the VVD simply breaks a starting point that we all use here? Equal pay for equal work should be the starting point for everyone, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u82	As far as I am concerned, it is important that we also give people an equal opportunity to work. I think that's where it starts. We introduced that Participation Act. Then we agreed with each other that all kinds of old arrangements would remain intact. Inherent to that is that in the same company we are talking here about the social employment provision, which can get different rewards for apparently the same work. But one is at the beginning of its development in a different path, and the other may have been in a WSW scheme for many years now and has a different reward. Once again, it is inherent in the choice we have made to eventually transform things and give people that development opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u83	I think, on the contrary, that the movement that we are seeing today, namely that social services are being closed down and some municipalities are phasing it out, and that there is a forest of regulations created by that customization, is the time for us here from The Hague to say that we cannot do that. Because the starting point is equal pay for equal work. For example, we should want a collective agreement for all those people at work so that we know that they all have the same conditions. Isn't that a basic condition, looking at three years of Participation Law, in which, precisely because of customization, there is a great deal of unrest, unequal remuneration and shadowy constructions created by municipalities? Isn't that something we shouldn't want?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u84	I have just indicated that municipalities have a very important task and a responsibility. I am not going to impose a blueprint from The Hague as to what a social work facility should look like. I really think that's about congregations. Each labour market region has different characteristics. I really think that local authorities should consider whether they want to maintain their old social work facilities, whether they are transforming them, whether they are converting them, or whether they are cutting them down and doing something else for them. But of the rights that people had in the old situation, we agreed that they should be preserved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u85	This is indeed significant: the VVD is leaving today the principle of equal pay for equal work. It is fair for Mrs Nijkerken to say so. It is therefore a basic principle that is being abandoned. Discrimination is legitimized with this. That's exactly what made the ladies Noortje and Amber so angry about Monday night. Wage dispensation is, in fact, wage discrimination. Do you just as well stand up today that these people can be paid below the minimum wage in terms of the VVD, because they are apparently inferior or a different kind of people? Tell me, how do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u86	These are words Mr. Van Dijk is doing. You can't hear me saying that. People are not paid below the minimum wage in the proposal. I think we're going to talk a lot about pay dispensation and we're going to have a technical briefing on that tomorrow. I have read the proposal as follows: for hours worked in which someone has a lower wage value, that wage component is supplemented through the municipality up to 100% of the wml. A lot of scare images have been created. I understand people are worried. This scheme looks specifically at people who are unable to earn the legal minimum wage themselves. So that's not about all people with disabilities. Because a lot of people with disabilities are able to earn the wml on their own. That is not the case either. In my view, we are going to have a wide-ranging debate on this in the next week and we are not specifically talking about pay dispensation today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u87	Does Mrs Nijkerken really claim here that the 60,000 people who have already signed the petition have not understood it all, and that everything is quite different? And does she say that the concerns of Noortje and Amber are based on nothing when they say: we do not want to be discriminated against, we do not want to be paid under the minimum wage, we do not want to be second-class workers, we want to have a normal pension? You're saying they're full of shit? Be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u88	I'm being very honest. You just complimented me on being honest. Again, a lot of fear images have been created. I understand that people are worried. So I'm not saying those people misunderstood. I understand that they are concerned, but this proposal is specific to the group of people who are unable to earn the wml themselves. We have said that it is more important for them to have a job than for them to sit on the couch at home. That is why we want to simplify the rules. But there is still a supplement to the wml for the hours worked. In fact, from day one, this proposal also involves wages to work differently than in the current regime. That is what is important for the VVD: more opportunities at work and that from day one it will also pay to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u89	But why the difference in rights? Because someone who then gets paid through pay dispensation doesn't build up a pension. So you can get the situation that two people are working side by side, one of which is building up a pension and the other isn't. What is the justification for this from a VVD perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u90	Again, the current arrangements are complicated, making it very difficult and complicated for employers. They really want to, but they run into a forest of rules, so they don't offer those jobs. That's why these people are sitting on the couch at home. I understand that every proposal has its advantages and disadvantages. I realize that. I'm well aware of that. But right now, I think it's more important that we give these people a better chance at work and that they get a decent addition. These people will be entitled to AOW as well. I really think it is important that they get to work, that they have the opportunity to develop in that way, and that they may even be able to grow. They don't get that chance when they're sitting on the couch at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u91	But other workers build up pensions, build up supplementary pensions. So the VVD says to people with disabilities: because these employers do not want to hire people with disabilities, we make sure that you no longer build up a pension. I repeat my question: what is fair about that? Now, let's have a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u92	I'm very, very clear. I think it's wise, no different than that... The proposal of pay dispensation is nothing new.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u93	What's fair about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u94	What's fair is that it gives them a better chance of getting a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u95	I'm sorry, but you're not supposed to be taking part in this discussion. Were you finished with your answer, Mrs. Nijkerken?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u96	Mrs Voortman and I differ. I think it's okay in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u97	I hear the VVD say very clearly: we choose employers, because they are having such a hard time with these difficult arrangements; we make them as easy as possible. But we have also seen a lot of reactions from employers, from Cedris and a lot of other people, who say: that wage costs subsidy worked fine; we do not need that dispensation at all. Then why is this new instrument?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u98	Again, towards Mrs Van Brenk: it is not a new instrument. It is an instrument that has been working with for a long time and which many people already have to deal with. So there's nothing new about it. I think it is important that we simplify rules so that it becomes attractive for more employers. I think that is what we all want, because in the end it is all those companies and SMEs who need to organise jobs. They are very willing to do so. They just say: make it easier for us now, because every municipality knows its own regulations, and that just makes it very complex. Fortunately, a lot of guarantee jobs have already been organized, but we want a lot more with each other. We want to get to those 125,000 jobs. I want to make sure that all those people who are now on the sidelines get a chance at work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u99	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u100	It is a new tool for this target group. It was just for the Wajong. You say: the VVD is taking employers' side very clearly, because we are making it easy, and with that there will be mountains of jobs. But you're making things very difficult for other people. This also means that the right of existence for people becomes almost impossible, because they really go backwards in income. You realize that, and you say that: we accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u101	Is that what Mrs. Nijkerken says?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u102	I don't think people go backwards a month at all. They are going to notice it even more via hourly pay dispensation, because from day one it is going to be more wages to work than in the case of wage costs subsidies. I think it is also a good thing that we have that explained again in the technical briefing tomorrow, because it is going to be a direct wage from day one to work. That was one of the conditions we set as a VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u103	Fine. I'm suspending until 5:05 p.m. and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u104	I call the Secretary of State. If it can be quieter in the public gallery, it'll be appreciated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are talking about the new style of social work provision, an important subject. I have visited many social work companies in recent months and have also experienced the important role they can play in people's lives. The reason for this debate is the different working conditions of people with disabilities. The Chamber has asked many questions, including on other subjects. All these issues are worth a good debate. Last week, the Chamber also requested a debate following a broadcast by ZEMBLA and asked for a letter. Mr Jasper van Dijk has also put questions to the House. I would like to write this letter and also the answer to the questions carefully so that we can have a good debate on this too and really go into the depths. Tomorrow there will be a technical briefing on pay dispensation. It has already been referred to by a number of Members of Parliament. There will also be a round table, a hearing, about pay dispensation. Then there will be a debate with your Chamber. It is a subject for which we must take the time to discuss it. That is why I have sent a general letter to the Chamber. In this way, we can hold a debate before dealing with a bill in the Chamber. I look forward to that debate, but it will also mean that I may have to refer to these future debates occasionally in my reply today. I'm only being honest with you about that. Today, however, we are also discussing a very important issue which deserves our attention. This is social employment services and especially the people in the SW companies and their working conditions. I would like to address briefly the question of why we are all doing this. Before I come to your questions, I'd like to zoom in on that. We want an inclusive labour market, in which everyone gets opportunities to participate, including those with disabilities. They too must be able to participate fully, preferably with ordinary employers. Too many people with disabilities are on the sidelines. In the Netherlands, we want everyone to be able to participate fully, because in our country, the labour market is not only there for people who make it all by themselves. There is also space and there are also opportunities for people who need support and are therefore perfectly able to work. We need everyone. When we talk about people with disabilities, there is actually no single group. There are many people in the Netherlands with a chronic illness or disability who rightly have a place on the labour market. They do not deal with bodies, or only when they need adjustments for their workplace. There are also people who need a job facility and can therefore do a good job, for example because a disabled toilet is placed, by supporting a job coach or by a Braille keyboard. And there are those who, with such adjustments, cannot earn the minimum hourly wage. For them there is support and an additional benefit or grant. They are eligible for services under the Participation Act. I hope that, by describing this group, I can also help to remove the misunderstanding that exists here and there if everyone is subject to restrictions to government working arrangements. Those who can't with this support go to an employer but need more guidance or a more private place, can go to sheltered work. And then there's day-to-day spending, even if it's officially taken care of. Social employment can play a very important role in all these steps. The place that social work companies now occupy is part of a long history. When they emerged in the 1960s they were an achievement, a fitting but then still fairly exclusive working environment for people who did not come along by themselves. They used to work there for years with pleasure. I'm not from the school of "everything used to be better," because there were waiting lists. And because of the often relatively high wages, it was sometimes difficult to switch to an employer outside the SW, even for those who were in need or that possibility, while about two out of three employees in the SW could actually work in an inclusive labour market with support from an ordinary employer. We're in the middle of that transition phase right now. Mr Jasper van Dijk already referred to the entry into force of the Participation Act in 2015. By 2015, young disabled people with a working capacity could receive a Wajong benefit. Now they can call on the Participation Act for support. With the introduction of the Participation Act, we have decided that it is a good thing that people work with ordinary employers as much as possible. That's why the WSW has been sealed off for new influx and we have the runway appointment. For people who can only work sheltered, there is sheltered work. The construction of our social services is therefore under construction. The phase we're in now takes time, but the goal is clear. We want a labour market in which everyone can participate as much as possible. I see that the movement towards an inclusive labour market is starting to get underway. That's why I call it construction. The job appointment's on schedule. Covered work is also starting to get steamed. A lot of questions have been asked about that. I hope to deal with that later. With every system change we retain the existing rights of people. You'll feel with me that's important. I believe in the philosophy that we need to support people in order to get as much work done by ordinary employers as possible. I would like to say that I am impressed by the work of social services. Because they are increasingly playing a role in this. They're going to be the intermediate station of the terminal. The SW companies deserve a big compliment for that. Many municipalities, Mr Peters, also referred to them, use their broad infrastructure. But this is the result of this debate and then I come to the questions of the Chamber, President-in-Office of the Council, that people with different incomes and different contracts can work side by side. This is inherent in the preservation of acquired rights and of the new, in my opinion, extremely good role played by Social Work Companies. The construction of social services is on the move, because it does not provide sufficient opportunities for all those who are now entering the labour market. Because the goal is clear: a labour market with as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u106	So much for the introduction. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u107	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I really had to get up, because you made a remark that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u108	Because the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u109	Because the Secretary of State made a remark that I found extremely disturbing. You indicated that the social work facility was very expensive and that people made a lot of money. Perhaps you could clarify that for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u110	Perhaps the Secretary of State could clarify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u111	As far as I know, I indicated at the Cedris lecture that, before there were social work facilities, in a village or municipality for example, it was just and actually very good to bring people into a business. That was the beginning, the situation we came from. But then you're also a little dependent on randomness. At some point, there was a legal basis for this. That was very good, but that was a bit of an exclusive environment. Because the people weren't on the regular labour market. That's how you see the development. Now we say to each other that we want an inclusive labour market. That is what I thought I would argue here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u112	The Secretary of State made the remark that people were expensive at the time and made a lot of money. In my opinion, that is absolutely wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u113	I would like to comment briefly on the interrupting debate we had just had with the VVD on equal pay for equal work. In fact, we have the situation in the social workplace that people who do the same work are being rewarded in completely different ways. For example, one gets a pension, travel allowance and 130% of the minimum wage and the other gets no pension, no travel allowance and 100% minimum wage. Do you therefore recognise that there is no 'equal work, equal pay' situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u114	We are dealing with a situation of change in our systems, because we want to help people more to get to work. In doing so, we would also like to respect the old rights of people, sometimes of a different nature and sometimes of higher financial compensation. I think that's a good thing. That also makes a government predictable. However, this has the effect that you can come to different situations next to each other. That is not an end in itself, but it may be a consequence of the discussions we are having in this Chamber. In addition, we say: let us also respect existing rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u115	My question was: does the Secretary of State acknowledge that there is now no situation of equal work/equal pay? Can you answer that with a simple yes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u116	Unfortunately, that is not possible, because you can see that there are physically different people sitting next to each other, for example in a former SW company that now offers its infrastructure to guide people with learning jobs. That's where you can meet people who get SW pay. You can meet people there from the Participation Act, learning pathways. But it may even be that people go there for daily spending and even have to pay for it. So it's different people sitting next to each other. It is important not only to look at how people are appreciated or rewarded for what they do there, but also at the work they do there. That could be different. So it is indeed not possible to answer that question with a clear yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u117	Then you continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u118	Mr President, there have been questions I would like to categorize about WSW/sw. I would like to make a distinction between the law and the organisations, stating that the organisations are still there, but that the law is closed for new influxes and sheltered work. Mr Raemakers asked about the Thermometer for the WSW. I would have promised him to send these in the first quarter. I looked back and I did. It is still being discussed with the Association of Dutch Municipalities. Then I'll send him to the Chamber. He also asked if there were any budget issues. I have seen the interrupting debates between the various colleagues. You can differ in the rating. In any case, there is a significant increase in the amount of money going to the municipalities. But I would like to point out once again that it is also possible for municipalities, certainly even the intention, to pool budgets. Because municipalities work entirely in the area of work and income and must also have a good service to their citizens. Important for this is that you put the budgets together and see if you can achieve added value. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u119	Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u120	Yeah, a question at this point. We hear, for example, that youth care is very clear what the budget is. It is clear, for example, that this is going to be 100 million, and that is going to be built up and so on. Our question is what is happening in the social domain and in the Participation Act. Could the Secretary of State indicate which part of the IPB funds in this area goes to municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u121	Mr President, it is ultimately up to the municipalities themselves how they distribute the funds. The agreements made by the Empire with the municipalities and, by the way, with the water boards and the provinces of the Netherlands are about a diversity of subjects. Of course, we come from a time of austerity, I say to those who reported this, in which it was economically difficult and we went down the stairs. Now we go up the stairs, also with another board. So that's a lot more money. Many priorities have been exchanged. But it is ultimately up to the municipalities themselves to see what they want to spend the money on. That's policy freedom. There's no fences around those budgets. I also think that's a good thing, because that way you can make one plus one three, especially in the social domain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u122	Okay, Mr. Chairman. But can the Secretary of State indicate when she will have more clarity about these finances and also about the Thermometer? That clarity would actually come in the first quarter. Can the Secretary of State indicate, for example, that she is still in conversation with municipalities, but that the House of Representatives will receive this at least before the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u123	Mr. Chairman. I can certainly send the Thermometer to the Chamber before the summer, because I would like to send it to the Chamber as soon as possible. But it's okay to mention the following. I have also used a rather long introduction to outline the context that since January 2015, since we have the Participation Act, people who do not have a sustainable working capacity are covered by the Wajong schemes and those with working capacity are covered by the Participation Act. This means that all the amenities and instruments in it, including the SW, are no longer separate budgets. So, of course, I understand that organisations say: hey, this money was historic to us, so that's what we're going through. In essence, however, the municipalities themselves are able to link up the financial resources. The agreement has been made with the municipalities that files such as these, often coming back in the past, should be covered by a line. Mr. Chairman. I was referring to Mr Gijs van Dijk's question on the recommendations of the ESC on social employment. He asked if I see opportunities to see the social employment services not only as a springboard, but also as a safety net for people to fall back on. We have had a nice debate on this before. Like a human life never only goes up and downs you have ups and downs so you might want to have the certainty, if you move forward, that you can fall back on something. I indicated that I had a lecture at Cedris and that I wanted to raise this issue by starting a project group, which is going to see if, for example, you can ease all these transitions in the system. That project group has now started. This includes sheltered work and working with regular employers. This is without prejudice to the fact that I want to be very transparent about the fact that since 2015 there has been no institutionalisation of an SW company. But I continue to share the enthusiasm of the Chamber about the role that SW companies can play. I can see that in a lot of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u124	Let me get this straight. The Secretary of State says there are moments in life when you fall back. But you can't do that right now. It is not legally possible, so you fall back to the municipality in a welfare allowance or other kind of benefit. Then you have a very big problem. Then the distance to work is much greater. Apart from the project group, does the Secretary of State intend to consider this possibility or perhaps make it possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u125	I also started the project group because I think this issue is really important, but I think it is too early to draw conclusions. I think it is a good thing that we will be discussing it at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u126	Such a project group may take a long time, we know here in The Hague, while many people now need it. It is also said extensively in the field by many: make sure that the system does not interfere, but that it is going to help people. What period should we think about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u127	I like speed and, by the way, always care. I will look into it so that I can inform Mr Gijs van Dijk about it in the second term. Mr De Jong of the PVV's speech in order to maintain the expertise in social work provision and to stop the closure, I can join in enthusiasm, but not in obligation. I think this is indeed approaching an earlier change. I have done my best to express this enthusiasm to municipalities by saying: keep those good contacts now. But since the Act of Participation, it is up to the municipalities to decide how to shape this infrastructure, although I am pleased that this is happening in many places with the Social Welfare Company.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u128	Does the Secretary of State agree with the PVV that action should be taken if you set an objective with the municipalities from The Hague, but at some point you find that those objectives are not being met and that there are minimal improvements compared to a few years before? Shouldn't you say: we see that only about 700 people have been posted and we have to do something now? Why doesn't the Secretary of State just say: we've laid something down with the municipalities and we're going to tell them now that, when it comes to sheltered work and maintaining expertise, they should use the social workshops for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u129	The situation in many different municipalities can be very different. I think it is important that municipalities commit themselves to the targets and objectives. We agreed on these in 2015. At first we saw that it was going very slowly. We have all expressed our deep concerns about this. I have a few figures which I would have liked to give in reply to a question from Mr Peters. At the end of 2016 we had about 500 positive opinions. By the end of December 2017, there were already more than 2,100. This is partly because it has been agreed here in the Chamber that people can report themselves and then have the right to sheltered work. These are all important developments. I'm seeing a big increase. The numbers 20,000 and 30,000 I see are up to 2050. So that's not something overnight needs to be realized. I think we've got a good retina in municipalities right now that they're gonna do this. I am certainly not ready to say: then we should not only impose on them what they do, but also how they do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u130	Can you check it out? There are people who were on a waiting list to enter the social workshop and who still have no job after three years and are still at home. That's because apparently municipalities don't do enough or do not have enough resources or I don't know, because at least they can't put those people in a social workshop. Then it can be said that there are awards, but that doesn't mean that these people are placed? A lot of these people are still at home. The Secretary of State says to the municipalities: you need to create social workshops and you need to give people from a distance from the labour market a place to get started. Then why doesn't the Secretary of State just say: the expertise is there at the social workshops, do it and if not, then you have a very big problem with us? What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u131	To the first part of this message, I say yes. We are. We say to the congregations: this is what you have to do. But we have made agreements with each other, precisely because the local situation in, for example, Noordoost-Groningen is very different from that in South Limburg. These situations are very different from each other. And so a municipality has to take care of that local coloring. I see that they use social services very often, and I understand that, because that is a very logical place where you can go and where people can work safely. In the past, we saw that about a third of the people on the waiting list could really only function within the walls. That's a legitimate expertise. But enforcement goes too far given the agreements made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u132	Rounding up. The PVV does not say that the municipality is not often able to see for itself what is needed in terms of customization. But we see at the same time that Cedris also indicated in the letter that social work institutions close. That's just a fact. That's not something we think of here. And that fact causes a large part of the unrest among the people who are now working in a social workshop or who are on their way to that social workshop. In other words, the Secretary of State could play a very important role for the target group in the coming period by saying: the municipalities must keep the current social workshops open to use that expertise to stop letting people stand on the sidelines, but to let them participate. What's against that? If the Secretary of State does not do this, we can only conclude that the Secretary of State can say with words how important she thinks it is, but simply shrugging her shoulders in action. I have no choice but to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u133	I absolutely share and it is my intrinsic political motivation to fight for this. It is not for nothing that I have repeatedly pointed out to people over the last few weeks that more than half of those with disabilities, more than half of those who cannot earn the minimum wage per hour on their own, are not working. And that's unacceptable. But there are other, multiple ways to do something about this. I warmly welcome the commitment of SW companies. I bring to the attention of good examples. I said this in a previous debate with Mr De Jong: we will actively advertise this in the collection letter. I do, but I'm not gonna tell municipalities how to do that. They have to answer to their municipal council, but above all to the people who are on the sidelines. They must make it clear that they are trying to do this and that they are fighting for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u134	Has the Secretary of State learned anything from the unrest in the country, from the signatures that are now being collected against her policy? Has she seen the broadcast of ZEMBLA at all? It was very clear that closing the workshops on the one hand and not finding work in a regular place on the other is leading to major problems. And we're not even talking about the huge cuts. There are people for whom the social workshop is incredibly important. Why do you hold on so cramped to the idea that we are not dealing with this and that they can all fall over?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u135	I hope that, not only with what I said but also with how I said it, I have been able to show how important this is. We cannot narrow this down to the question of whether or not we are keeping the social employment provision open, no matter how important social work provision is. This is about the problems of people who have been on the sidelines for years. I take that very seriously, and so I am trying to debate it with the Chamber. We have had many good and very constructive debates about it; I appreciate that very much. Today I try to organize a little "a path through the Red Sea," as I call it for myself. After all, we still have a debate on the ZEMBLA broadcast and we also have a debate on the pay dispensation. Both require care. Both also require social debate. It is not for nothing that I have sent a general letter, not only to the Chamber but also to organizations such as Each, the National Client Council, the trade unions and the VNG, to say: please join in; this is what is in the government agreement, this is our goal and this is what we want to do. But I can't do it alone; it has to be worn. Because I want people to be able to participate fully. I did not send a headline note for nothing; I did not issue a decree or submit a law to the Chamber. I'm just looking up the discussion. But I also think I should do justice to what the Chamber itself says. The Chamber wants to do a technical exercise first and talk to the field. I try to stay on that path by doing justice here to the important subject of social employment but at the same time stressing that I do see the context in which this discussion is taking place. As far as I am concerned, social services play a very important role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u136	What a technocratic response, and what a desperate attempt by the Secretary of State to keep these issues apart, when they are of course connected. We're talking about the disabled. The Act of Participation now puts them at home and the social workshops are closed. You want to start paying these people below minimum wage now. In fact, we are going to debate this at length. But those people are on the couch now. They fall between shore and ship. What are you going to do for them instead of referring to municipalities all the time? You have a responsibility in this, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u137	The reason why we are all standing here today is that there are still too many people on the sidelines and there are too many people on the sidelines as well as people at work, with great concern. That's what's important. That's why we're standing here, and that's why I'm standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u138	I would like to continue with the interruption of Mr De Jong of the PVV. He brought up the knowledge and infrastructure of the social workshops. The Secretary of State said it's up to municipalities what they want to do with it. But municipalities often have to deal with a considerable deficit. Covered work also costs money, and money they barely got. They also have other tasks in the area of work and income. Is the Secretary of State prepared to help municipalities that would like to use that knowledge and infrastructure but simply do not have the budget to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u139	It's important to take a closer look at what we... I'm trying to put all the assumptions together, but that's tricky. I'm gonna try to peel it off. We have made agreements with municipalities about what they do, both legally, in the Participation Act, and recently with the agreements on the basis of the government agreement. There's also butter on the fish, and it's a delicious fish, I can tell you. In any case, there is a substantial increase in the amount of money; qualitatively you can differ on how you value it, as we have just seen. There is also the possibility to see what you do about services and how you can connect. As far as I am concerned, we can sometimes look more closely at the future. I still see in all sorts of reports that there are municipalities that say of a lot of people: that person never comes to work again or I never get it activated again; ergo we do nothing with that. In fact, I find it impossible for that to happen. But just look at how long you should keep people on welfare. Wouldn't it be better to invest that money to get people to, for example, sheltered work or maybe even, through another step, to regular work? I would like to make a plea that municipalities, all of which are currently engaged in coalition negotiations, are giving a big boost to participation using the possibilities that exist today, both in the coalition agreement and in the financial as well as in the instruments they have, including the possibilities of municipalities themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u140	I think that municipalities want nothing more, but municipalities do have to do with the austerity of recent times. That butter in the fish that the Secretary of State is talking about is really a very lean sardine; that extra money simply evaporates in relation to the extra tasks and the shortage that municipalities already have. So the question is: if the Secretary of State gives such a high priority to policy freedom, does she really want to enable municipalities to make those choices themselves? 'Cause those choices aren't there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u141	I believe that we continue to disagree on this point. I believe that municipalities do have a good foundation to conduct these discussions, especially in view of the most recent agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u142	We're getting a bit of a crazy debate for me. On the one hand, many spokesmen, as well as the Secretary of State, speak warm words about social work. It is of great importance: as a stepping stone to work, as a shelter and perhaps also for permanent work. At the same time, however, we say that it is up to the municipalities and that we particularly want these facilities to be maintained and renewed. The Secretary of State says he doesn't want to arrange from The Hague for them to be required. I would like to refer to the Economic and Social Council, employers, employees and crown members, who express great concern about the loss of knowledge and expertise when different municipalities in one region all say goodbye to that social employment provision. Then you lose all that knowledge and all those people stay on the couch longer. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make agreements by labour market region, as recommended by the ESC, to ensure that this knowledge and expertise is preserved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u143	I really like to be at the wheel myself, but in this case I really think that municipalities should take their role. It's now April 2018. The Participation Act is of 2015. These were the first municipal elections after that law came into force. These are the first college negotiations where we can see how municipalities take that steering wheel. If I take Cedris' letter, it says that about a quarter of SW companies have a more limited task. So there are still a lot of them at the table. I see real opportunities here, especially in the time frame in which we are now. So I do not yet share the negative feeling that I feel some Members of Parliament have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u144	That wasn't my question. I indicated that there is a report from the Economic and Social Council. It expresses concerns about the loss of knowledge and expertise. My question then was whether the Secretary of State takes these concerns seriously and whether she wants to take them up. The Secretary of State is responsible for the system. Eventually, the municipalities have to implement it, but we have to ensure that it goes well nationally. Does it want to keep this knowledge and specialization in order to help all these people, because that is a lot of municipalities together?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u145	I can excite, motivate, spread good examples, but this is for municipalities to do. I think it is a good suggestion from Mr Gijs van Dijk that labour market regions can play a role. I also see that this is happening in many labour market regions. In fact, I've already talked to SW companies about how they do it. But we have made the choice here that it is ultimately up to all these municipal councils in all these town halls to decide this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u146	The Secretary of State mentions the self-reporting route and says that people are entitled to sheltered work. I wonder. Of the 1,700 people who have reported themselves, 636 applications have been rejected. So that's 37%. And of the group that does get an indication of sheltered work via the self-reporting route, 60% is still not working. The Secretary of State called it a "right" to sheltered work, but I wonder if that right is there. Shouldn't we do things like politics to better guarantee that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u147	Right is there the moment you have the indication. You can report yourself, and if you have an indication, you can go to the municipality and say, "Look, I have the indication." Then the city must do the same. I propose that I respond in writing to the other questions, which also relate to the ZEMBLA broadcast last week, which were also the subject of written questions and on which the Chamber asked a letter, also because we are working on the Chamber's previously requested overview of the state of the art of sheltered work. I think it's a good idea to take that together, because I can't give you that information right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u148	I understand. I also see that we have made a very complicated system with each other around sheltered work. Even in the percentages for people delivered through the municipalities, I see that many people do not get this indication. Around 30% of them do not come to work either. Should we not go to a more objective criterion, for example that you are covered by sheltered work if you have a wage value of between 20% and 50%? Then we don't have to do the whole medical testing thing anymore and we save a lot of bureaucracy. Then you can say to someone: if your wage value is 30%, you're covered in sheltered work and we're just gonna take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u149	My proposal would be to include the answer to this question in the letter on the broadcast of ZEMBLA which I am writing, if Mr Raemakers agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u150	Short, Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u151	I would therefore particularly like to ask for it to be included in the plan of action already announced on the basis of the Bruins/Raemakers motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u152	Yes, I would like to combine them in terms of efficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u153	This will at least answer part of my question, but I had another problem which is also of great importance to this Secretary of State. Before this debate, we spoke with the people who are sitting in the gallery. It was reported that 75% of the people working in the social services sector are in financial difficulties and are in debt. They make very little money and that's quite difficult. If we know that, isn't it important to make sure they get and keep decent wages? Otherwise, do we not get large groups who are going to be in poverty and in debt?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u154	I think that Mrs Van Brenk is raising a very important issue that is a very important factor in people's lives. In any case, in the broad debt approach, we also look at how you can quickly approach people and help them when they are at risk of getting into debt. Special attention is also paid to low-income people, because that is indeed a group that is at greater risk of doing so. I find it difficult to include this issue in this debate now, because I am looking for a bit of what Mrs Van Brenk would need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u155	Mr Jasper van Dijk already indicated: there are different people with different rewards and different incomes. I was very upset at the beginning about the Secretary of State's statement that people are being greatly rewarded. Given this situation, the Secretary of State can't keep that up, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u156	I've been looking back at the lyrics. This issue has been raised by the Participation Act, by the Social Employment Service and by the waiting list issue. I used the word'relative' because I will be the last to say that they are high wages. I used the word "relatively." If I had not used that, I would have liked to add it to this, because in this respect I agree entirely with Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u157	Thank you. You didn't say it, so now it's added. Maybe I can make one last comment. At the time of the introduction you indicated...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u158	"Did the Secretary of State report?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u159	Sorry, "has the Secretary of State." I now quote literally: 'People who are not hired by employers can go to sheltered work'. If the Secretary of State gives a written reply, I would very much like to support that statement, because I do not think you can make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u160	I wanted to point out that someone who is not eligible for a regular workplace is eligible for sheltered work. I have already indicated that we are at a stage where it does not all work as it should, but that is how it should go and that is how we agreed. We're going to help people to regular employers, and if we don't, we'll always have sheltered jobs. I wanted to indicate it in that context. Mr. Chairman. In reply to Mr De Jong's question, I also answered a number of questions put by Mr Peters. I have another question from Mr Gijs van Dijk, who asks whether I want to work together with the municipalities and the employers on the conditions of employment for sheltered work. At the moment, that ball is with the municipalities. We've made a few more inquiries. It's a little too short a day or too early, they said, but it's on the sign of the municipalities and the employers. Mr. Chairman. I think I may be through the questions, but I still see some people who don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u161	It was about Mr Gijs van Dijk's question, so let's do it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was also actually asking about the importance of going to one collective agreement. I hope the Secretary of State shares that. In my view, the responsibility of the Secretary of State for the system, the responsibility of the system, which she is making a firm effort to do so, is also the responsibility of the State Secretary to ask the municipalities and the employers to take care of this. We are now seeing all kinds of schemes emerging with great differences that do not make people any better. People just want a good collective agreement. Does the Secretary of State agree with the importance of one good collective agreement for sheltered work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u163	We have agreed in the legislation that people will actually be employed. But whether this is a collective agreement and what is a collective agreement is indeed up to local authorities and employers, the social partners involved. I see big differences. I see municipalities where people are employed, municipalities that have introduced low pay scales so that they can give people more than the minimum wage. It's really up to municipalities to do that. I also see municipalities that fill that out in other ways, but there I can play no role there other than acting during discussions that I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u164	My question was quite simple: does the Secretary of State agree with me that there should be one collective agreement to prevent possible differences, regardless of how they deal with them? The question is: should there be one collective agreement or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u165	Right now, I'd say no. I cannot overlook what I say when I say yes, because there are so many differences now that we have put together in the system as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u166	Thank you, Secretary of State, for the clear answer to my questions except one. I have also heard in my lap along the Brabant fields that there are municipalities that have trouble or say to have difficulty placing people because of sharp criteria for sheltered work. My question was whether you recognize this and whether you could go into it in the letter you are going to write anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u167	Yes, Mr. Chairman. We have also had an exchange of views on this subject in previous debates. Of course, it's not nothing when it's said to you that you can't actually work in a regular place. That must be changed with great care. That is why this is a very robust procedure. That's why you can't just introduce a practical route. I understand the wish and the need in the Chamber, but that is difficult to do because you really have to be very careful. I also think it is appropriate to include this topic further in the letter I am writing following the request from the Chamber about the broadcast at ZEMBLA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u168	Thank you. Could you perhaps also include the possibility of doing this temporarily, that you temporarily lighten those criteria for people so that they can indeed flow up and down, including from sheltered work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u169	As far as I know, it is also possible to ask for a re-examination from sheltered work. I'll make sure it's done in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u170	The Secretary of State is at the end of her term. I have listened and I do not have the impression that she knows how much unrest there is in the country. I want to give her another chance to put that into words now. She's seen the transmissions. She knows the signatures of "We're getting up!', 60,000 as much as you can. Noortje and Amber have even been contacted, I understand. Those people are absolutely not convinced of the accuracy of your policy. I asked in my term: before new policies are made, investigate what has gone wrong. I think a lot has gone wrong. It would be very strange for the Secretary of State to deny that, too. There has been a lot of unrest and much has gone wrong with the disabled. Does she understand that a good investigation can be sensible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u171	I understand, and I hear there are big concerns. I get that. I very much appreciate the enormous social commitment there is to this issue. I asked for that too. I've also asked people, to parties: come to the table, talk along. At the moment, more than half of the people with disabilities are on the sidelines. As I explained in my introduction, I am not talking about the very large group of people in the Netherlands with a chronic illness or a disability who can work without provision. That is a very big problem. With the current instruments, we can't help people. I think it's important that we help people. I've made a proposal, pluses and minuses. I have been very transparent about that. I also asked you to talk to me about that. Room, talk to me. Organizations, talk to me. People, talk to me. And people do. I am incredibly grateful for that, because it is a very important subject. I am also very happy that the Chamber is taking it so seriously. So yes, I see the social unrest, but it's also a subject that we all really need to address. I can't accept that more than half of the people are out of work. That's why I'm doing it. Not because it's easy, but because it's necessary, because these people deserve a place. That's what I'd like to talk to the Chamber about in the coming time, with all the underlying investigations, but also with all the conversations we've had. I have been very transparent about this proposal, pluses and minuses, but under the line it is about whether people can work more and whether it can also pay more for people to work. That's what I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u172	But the fact that half of those people don't have a job isn't a reason to pay them below minimum wage, is it? Isn't that a bizarre conclusion to draw? Appreciate the fact that the Secretary of State speaks to a lot of people, but does she have the impression, like me, that the support for the plans she presents is twistedly low? Employers, employees, municipalities, trade unions: so far I have seen very few supporters. Is it not perhaps wise to opt for other policies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u173	As the Chamber saw in the letter I sent, I wanted to put it very transparently. I would also like to talk about this, but I have also seen that the Chamber has taken on a number of other issues. That is why I do not think it appropriate to do so now. I have just mentioned how important I think it is for people to be able to participate fully in the debate. I would like to put my shoulders to that, and I would very much like to have the debate on this with you shortly. I also think that this is important in order to provide clarity for those who are now concerned, rightly or wrongly. I hope as much as possible isn't right. That is what I like to debate with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u174	Thank you. So much for the first term. Is there a need for a second term? That's the case. Let us begin by listening to Mr Jasper van Dijk from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u175	Mr President, as you may have noticed, I am not finished with this. I really do not think it is enough what is happening. I do not yet see that the government is showing any awareness of the urgency of the unrest in the country. That's why I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is significant that as many as 80% of the disabled people on the waiting list for social work have still not been able to find a job;]] [[calls on the Government to make the WSW indication possible again and to open the SW for new notifications,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas labour disabilities have been hard hit by cuts, the closure of social workshops and the Participation Act;]] [[noting that there has been a great deal of concern about the plan to pay disabled people below the minimum wage (wage allowance);]] [[considers that fundamental research is necessary before re-introducing rash policies;]] [[calls on the Bureau of the European Parliament to draw up a committee to prepare a parliamentary inquiry into the malpractice of the disabled in recent decades,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29817-139]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29817-140]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u176	Well, if I may speak on behalf of the entire Bureau, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u177	I didn't want to go that far today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u178	...it gives a very powerful feeling! I'll let that honor pass me by. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State said these people deserve a place. Of course everyone agrees with that, but the underlying conclusion seems to be that it should not cost too much. And that's sad. Although the Secretary of State does not answer him literally, it seems to answer the central question in my first term: what is the work for people with disabilities worth to us? Apparently not much. It is also unclear how the Secretary of State intends to promote those 735 places of sheltered work going to 30,000 places. Finally, Mr President. The Secretary of State says in her letter that municipalities should offer sheltered work if they need it, if they need it. Does the Secretary of State share our view that responsibilities should be maintained per municipality and, if so, how will it monitor them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u179	Thank you. Mr Raemakers of the D66 Group waived his speaking time. Then Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As Mr Jasper van Dijk said, this is just the beginning. Because we are going to talk about the plans for pay dispensation and the importance of social employment. In this sense, we have taken a first step today. I hear many spokesmen and also the Secretary of State say warm words about social services. That's right, but that's part of the action. And I don't see it yet. I believe that it is really important to maintain and strengthen the strength, as the Economic and Social Council points out, and the knowledge and expertise that social work provision has. So being prosecuted, I'd say. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Economic and Social Council called for a fall-back option for people with disabilities into sheltered employment;]] [[Whereas security benefits people with disabilities;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of a relapse for people with disabilities in sheltered employment;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29817-141]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u181	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is necessary to adapt the Participation Act for the group which is unable or unable to achieve sustainable employment through the employment agreement, and also to lose its place in the social employment service;]] [[Whereas the problems for this group cannot be solved sustainably through employment services and by replacing wage subsidy with wage dispensation;]] [[Whereas, moreover, the Cabinet attaches importance to maintaining infrastructure and expertise in the social work environment;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with municipalities, to make proposals to preserve the infrastructure and expertise of the social employment services for the group concerned;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the municipalities, to focus social services on the flow of disabled people into work and on the provision of permanent internally sheltered work for those who need it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Brenk, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29817-142]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u182	Mr President, thank you very much. Politics is making choices. If we're all really so sorry, you'd expect that to include actions. How it works is: who pays determines. And it's just that the municipalities get budgets and they get them from here. That's how we all agreed. So if we all consider it so important that these people really get to work, these two motions of the Secretary of State should only get one verdict, namely: either take over or "judge Chamber." That's why we've got the next few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to at least maintain existing social workshops,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[invites the municipalities to use existing social workshops and additional infrastructure and knowledge of the target group to achieve sheltered work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29817-143]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29817-144]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u183	We're gonna go on cheerful. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u184	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u185	I would also like to rest in the public gallery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of my second term, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their input and also for the building blocks for the discussions we are about to have, if I may put it that way. I've come to review the motions. Mr Jasper van Dijk's motion for a resolution 139 I do not recommend, because we are working towards an inclusive labour market and are directing it with the municipalities. Then there is Mr Jasper van Dijk's motion on item No. 140. I would leave it out of my mind to say something about that, I say to the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u187	It's a pleasure for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u188	Then Mrs Voortman asked a few more questions and tabled a motion. She asked me how we could promote more sheltered work. That's one of the subjects I'm going into in the letter. I think it is important to point out here that there is indeed an ascending line, although we will all want it to go even faster here. Mrs Voortman also said that it should be a task rather than a need. I think it is very important that people's needs are guiding. If someone says he wants to be eligible and gets an indication from the UWV, then so should the municipality. I would like to ask her to read it in this way. It is also always customary and to involve this discussion in the discussion we are about to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u189	But those 30,000 sheltered places, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u190	Yeah, 2050. So that's where we're gonna grow together. Otherwise, it's gonna be a whole... Then I also have a motion from Mrs Voortman. No, I'm sorry, I have a motion from Mr Gijs van Dijk, on part No. 141. It invites the government to examine the possibility of a fall-back for people with disabilities in sheltered work. I would like to leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber, and to return to it in the investigations or the project to which I referred. I think that this should be possible if people have a positive opinion on this. So I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then I come to Mrs Van Brenn's motion on item No. 142. It invites the government to make proposals to preserve the infrastructure and expertise of social work. I would like to point out that we have already implemented the Christmas motion, which asked for 30 million to make this kind of proposal. Therefore, I advise against the motion. Mr De Jong's motion for a resolution 143 on the maintenance of existing social workshops, bearing in mind the debates we have had on them. I have a question about his motion in part No. 144, in which he asked the government to persuade the municipalities to use the social workshops and infrastructure to achieve sheltered work. Does he want me to enthuse them or force them to do so? How does he take "moving"? If he means "enthusiasm," I could leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. If it's "force," I'm afraid I'm gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u191	What's it gonna be boy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u192	I have a proposition. This could be a first step. If the Secretary of State now says that in the very short term, i.e. before the summer recess, she is talking to the municipalities to make this happen, and by doing so to enthuse them, that is what I mean by that. But I would like to point out that I will table a motion on this subject in the course of the next debate in order to make it compulsory. In so doing, the Secretary of State could leave this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u193	Now I'm going to hesitate a bit, because I feel like I'm being pulled into a trap. So unfortunately I'm going to dissuade her, because with this reply I can't help but think: eventually I'll never agree to force. As important as I think the work of the SW companies and as much as I am going to bring it to the attention of the municipalities, it will have to remain enthusiastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u194	Listen. I have just tabled a motion saying that we must move the municipalities to do this. If the Secretary of State reads that as "enthousiasm," that is a first step. I am therefore saying that the Secretary of State, following her own words, could give a ruling to the Chamber. That is what we have now recorded in the deliberations. The Secretary of State will be able to read it back later. I would also like to say the following. That first step is nice for the PVV, but we want more. That is why, in a subsequent debate, we will once again ask for an explanation of vote in the Chamber in order to make it compulsory. Because that would enable the Secretary of State, in line with what she has just said, to give Chamber judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u195	Then I'll maintain what I've said before. If it's enthusiasm, I'll take it up after this interruption. I'll give the motion judgment Chamber. And then it could just be that Mr De Jong and I are just going to take a step together. But where the next step leads, and whether it even comes, I dare not say yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u196	We'll keep that exciting. I note that this is an opinion on the motion on item No. 144 and that we still do not have the judgment on the motion in part No. 143.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u197	Oh?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u198	Or did I miss something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u199	No, I dissuaded that motion just as staccato as she was filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u200	Okay, a mistake on our part. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u201	I would like to have a clarification from the Secretary of State on my motion. We are indeed concerned about maintaining the infrastructure and expertise of the social work environment. Now the Secretary of State says: I already did, because that was another motion. But there are still being lifted, for example in Venray. So perhaps you could clarify that for a moment. Because if it did, that motion wouldn't have been necessary, but I just can't see it enough. So perhaps you'd better explain it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u202	Again, we are at the intersection between best practices, enthusiasm, showing and stimulating versus making mandatory. On the first request, I would point out that we have already worked on such proposals with the Christmas motion. But I read the motion in such a way that it still sends on an obligation. And then I must discourage her, also in the light of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u203	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-8.u204	We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday. Thank you to the Secretary of State for her presence. Thank you to the participants. Thank you also to the people in the public gallery. Thank you for your involvement. You've behaved well, may I say. We have another debate this evening, so if you want to stick around, you are very welcome. Orders in terms of consumption can be given to Mr Maarten Jongejan. No, I'm not. I shall suspend to the seven o'clock clock and then we shall have a thirty-member debate. Then we'll talk about the Opium Act.
