ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u1	The next item is the amendment to the Renewable Energy Storage Act in connection with the setting of tariffs for the year 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u2	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. I also welcome the MPs and viewers at home. Eight members have applied to make a contribution. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u3	Mr. Chairman. Time flies. I can remember vividly that we had a similar debate a year ago, because we set the rates for renewable energy storage every year. We could actually have almost literally the same debate tonight, but time flies. And a lot has happened over the past year, also in a positive way, but we are far from there. It is now the third time in three weeks that we have talked about the progress of the climate and energy transition, where I have also come across more bad news. Yesterday, the CBS noted that emissions rose again in the third quarter of this year compared to the third quarter of last year. Fortunately, there was also a good news today: that a lot of SDE-grant has been applied for. There are nearly 6,000 applications for 7.7 billion while 6 billion are available. That gives me courage again, because the last two rounds saw a major under-utilisation. More renewable energy is one of the necessary responses to reducing CO more quickly. This need has only increased in view of the messages but also of the Urgenda statements and the recent IPCC report. We will return to the specific subject on the agenda this evening: storage of renewable energy. When it comes to the question of who puts the money on the table, the ratio between citizens and businesses is 50/50. We, as GroenLinks, have already pointed out in previous years that this ratio does not fit in with the fact that companies emit up to four times more and receive the lion's share of subsidies from the SDE, because they are renewable energy producers. This is becoming more and more painful because, unfortunately, we also see in other areas that this cabinet is wrongly imposing even more burdens on the citizen. Then, of course, it is specifically about the decision to reduce the return on the energy tax. My group has indicated at several times since Princess Day that it is very difficult for us to accept this. It has no climate effect at all. It also has nothing to do with climate policy; it is an intervention that has been done to find money to lower the rate in the first disk of income tax. I have also said before, even during the budgetary procedure, that I find it very strange that the cabinet is doing something here which it is always saying to the opposition: income policy companies in climate and energy policy. Because of a lower rate in income tax, you're going to change something in the energy tax. And that change is a deterioration, especially for the people with the lowest incomes. Now there has also been a lot of debate over the last week in the debate on the Tax Plan. An alternative has also been considered. That did not work very well, at least it did not lead to an agreement. But our creativity knows no bounds. So we have come up with a new proposal. That doesn't just fall out of the sky. Renewable energy has been chosen in the system of storage to follow the system of energy taxation. It is levied in the same way. There are also certain steps in the way in which the levy is paid. The difference is that there is a refund in the energy tax, but there is no refund in the storage of renewable energy. So we thought it would be a very good idea to fully align the systems and introduce a return to the storage of renewable energy. We have designed this return in such a way that it is €51. That is exactly the discount on the refund in the energy tax that this cabinet chose on Princess Day. Our amendment to item No. 7 is completely neutral in budgetary terms, because this return is financed by a slightly higher storage of renewable energy by industry. Then what does it do with the affair? Then the ratio is no longer 50/50 but about 60/40. It is in the same order of magnitude as the amendment I tabled last year, with the difference that a return is now being introduced that really does something at the bottom. Indeed, there was a 0.2% deterioration in purchasing power. That's what the CPB calculated. We didn't get those numbers until after Princess Day. So it's a significant deterioration, and we can undo it. But I am not just concerned with undoing a deterioration in purchasing power. I am also concerned about achieving a climate effect. We are going to impose a slightly higher tax on those who emit four times more than the citizens. This means that this amendment also leads to a strengthening of climate policy and a reduction of CO. We need that reduction very much. We talked about the Urgenda pronunciation and the fact that the CO reduction is stagnating. With this amendment, we are making one of the necessary contributions to speed things up. So I look forward very much to the Minister's opinion on this. I also have great confidence in the persuasiveness of my colleague, Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, who very often rightly argues that it is very important to comply with agreements. It is always important for the VVD to ensure that judgments are respected. It is also very important to be cost-effective. This is a very cost-effective measure. Moreover, it contributes to the support for the enormous transition that we stand for. So I hope that the Minister and my colleague from the VVD Group will try to convince the whole Chamber that it is a very good idea to set the rate for the storage of renewable energy in this way. I do know that there are concerns about what this does to the competitiveness of business. Then it is very interesting to see what has happened in the last month. We have also mentioned De Nederlandsche Bank, which simply notes that there is room for more taxation on industry, because they pay much less for energy and emissions than competitors in neighbouring countries. The Central Planning Bureau had already noted this in the Macro Economic Explorations. Today there was another article in The Financial Daily of an economist of the VU who makes exactly the same point. After a detailed study of the literature, both the CPB and this economist have shown that such a measure has a very negative effect on productivity, but that it is made up very quickly because such a measure immediately leads to innovation. It's gonna be recouped real soon, too. So there's room for a levy. If you introduce it, it will lead to more innovation, more CO reduction and more support for the transition that we stand for. So there is nothing to think of against this great amendment. Colleagues, I think you're already convinced. Then it's only up to the Minister to pass judgment on Chamber. I'm gonna wait for that right now. In this respect, I shall conclude my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u4	Well, there's been an interruption by Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u5	How is Mr Van der Lee going to prevent the increased storage of renewable energy, which he wants to leave with the companies, from being passed on directly to households?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u6	Thank you for asking me that question. The funny thing is that this could only happen in the situation that this company has a monopoly. Then you can fully pass on the increase in the levy to the consumer. But the great thing now is that we live in a free market economy and that all these Dutch companies have competitors from the countries around us and further away. According to scientific research, the CPB, De Nederlandsche Bank and economists there is space, because Dutch companies have an improper advantage. They pay less for energy and for CO. So if they have to pay a little more, they can't pass that on to the consumer at all, because there are other companies, competitors, that continue to offer articles at the same price. In economic terms, therefore, there is no objection whatsoever to this amendment. I also hope that Mr Kops will support this amendment, because he put a motion to the vote last Tuesday in which he also insisted that the reduction in the refund of the energy tax should not continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u7	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Households' energy bills are going to rise sharply next year. According to the Association Eigen Huis, homeowners will pay more than €150 more in energy taxes in 2019. For households, the ODE tax rate for gas doubles. At the same time, the energy tax reduction is falling. Low incomes are getting into trouble. According to the Housing Association, low incomes between 40% and 60% of their income are lost in rent and energy costs. Almost eight out of ten tenants indicate that their house is poorly isolated and that they suffer from cold and draft. Another four out of ten tenants indicate that they only have glass in the house. Mr. Chairman. The ODE is unjust and is becoming even more unjust this year. Disparities between households are increasing. That is what the Central Planning Bureau has been saying. Purchasing power is 0.2% lower due to measures for the lowest incomes, while higher incomes are seen by this policy to increase purchasing power by 0.2 percentage points. The lowest incomes have an increase in purchasing power of 0.9%, the highest income of 1.8%. But the inequality between small polluters, such as household and small businesses, and large polluters is also increasing. The more you pollute, the less you pay per cubic meter of gas or per unit of electricity. I already did, but it's gonna be squirrel next year. Prices for the largest polluters are rising much less than those for households and small businesses. The biggest question is why? Why does the cabinet choose more injustice? Should the polluter-pays principle not be the starting point? The SP has tabled an amendment with the Animal Party to ensure that the burden-sharing is fair. The cabinet is very concerned about the competitiveness of businesses, but does not seem to be concerned at all about affordability for households. Not only the burdens are crooked, the lusts are crooked. The proceeds of the ODE are used for the SDE+. Households cannot use them directly. Households do pay, but a lot of people don't have the opportunity to save gas and electricity. That actually makes the law even more wretched. Why, so I ask the Minister, do we not target a larger proportion of the revenue to help households to be sustainable? If we invest in isolation, we'll hit multiple flies with one stone. People's energy bills are going down. They have a nicer house and we help the climate. The question is increasingly pressing: shouldn't we stop with the ODE? Or should we make a thorough adjustment to this one? Households pay a lot, but there is little to them and there is no profit for the climate if households cannot make it sustainable. Mr Van der Lee also pointed out that the latest figures show that emissions are not falling, but are rising. According to the SP, therefore, there are much smarter and more effective methods of levying climate taxes, which do make sense. Mr. Chairman. In an earlier debate, we already mentioned the example from Canada. That is where a CO tax is currently being introduced that affects polluters and reduces emissions. At the same time, 90% of the revenue goes back to Canada's households. The SP has of course already argued for such a tax in the Netherlands. A tax that really affects polluters and reduces the emissions of the Netherlands instead of rising, a tax whose revenues we put into a climate justice fund, with which we can help make industry and households more sustainable. Now I noticed something. As Mr Van der Lee said, we discuss this law every year and can also sort of draw out what everyone says every year, perhaps. But there's actually something crazy going on, I noticed. The ODE was introduced in 2013 and then several groups, including the VVD and the PVV, asked to review the law as well. So he's exactly five years old now. We have searched and checked with the CIP and with the knowledge coordinator of our committee, and they say they cannot find that the law would have been evaluated. However, the SDE+ scheme was evaluated in 2016, and the ODE would be included in it, but it did not. He's been mentioned, but he hasn't been evaluated. So we've had the ODE for five years now, we're thinking about how we're going to move forward with our climate policy. The Climate Act is coming up, we are working on the climate tables, but the ODE is not currently under discussion and has not yet been evaluated. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is not time to start evaluating the ODE, to think about its possible abolition or adaptation or possible alternatives. I would like a response from the Minister, and we have also prepared a motion on this. To the great happiness of some, I think, I'm going to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u9	Thank you. The abbreviation ODE stands for Storage Renewable Energy, I say possibly for the viewers at home. I shall then give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you are wondering why the energy bill is so hugely rising, the answer is: that account is more than half of taxes and half of taxes! These taxes are going up and up again and again. Every household pays about the energy consumed ODE, as you said, Chairman: Storage Renewable Energy, a kind of climate tax it is. And the proceeds from the ODE are used for the production of renewable energy. Windmill parks and more of that bullshit. Mr. Chairman. Next year, the rates of the ODE will continue to rise, and not so much. If I take the bill, we'll see gas tariffs go up, but so will electricity tariffs. How is that possible? Because the Minister promised to lower the taxes on electricity, right? In his letter, the government's Juice of the Climate Agreement, I quote: 'Adjustment of the energy tax, with the tax on electricity falling and rising on gas'. End of quote. But all the rates are going up now. How about this? I'd like a response. In the explanatory memorandum to this bill, the Minister refers to the expected average energy consumption for 2019. That would be 1,170 cubic cubic metres of gas and 2,582 kWh of electricity. In doing so, he bases himself on the 2007 National Energy Exploratory. I even have that book with me, Mr. Chairman. First of all, where is the 2018 energy exploration? Admittedly, that is a rhetorical question, because there is not going to be, as we have been told, because the Planning Office for the Environment, which normally makes this report, is now working on the climate agreement. So we actually have to do it with old figures. Secondly, I have been browsing the whole book again, but I have no idea how the Minister got the figures he mentioned. Somewhere logical, because nowhere in this energy exploration is there any mention of the expected average energy consumption for 2019. So, where did he get his grades? Did he calculate it on the back of a matchbox or something? The average energy consumption as stated in the energy exploration, which is somewhat close to the Minister's figures, is based on households with solar panels. The expected energy savings due to these things have already been settled. That is, of course, misleading, because most of the households have no solar panels at all. Magic with numbers! This was also the case last year in the same debate on the ODE. In reality, households consume much more energy and also pay more ODE. But that's not all, because every household gets a tax discount on the energy bill, also called 'energy tax reduction', a fixed amount per year. It's a kind of discount that was once meant to keep the energy bill affordable. But nowadays affordability and energy are in stark contrast to each other. No affordability, because next year the tax discount will be reduced by €51. If we also include the rising gas and electricity prices, we will reach a total increase in the bill of as much as €150. It is, and remains, too scandalous for words. Mr. Chairman. So the climate agreement is not even final yet, but under the heading of climate, the energy bill is going up hugely. What we can already raise in taxes is nicely taken away, perhaps the Minister should have thought. Having is having. Energy, a basic requirement, is becoming an priceless luxury product for more and more people. It's called poverty, energy poverty. In a country like the Netherlands, that is just a fact. A million households can barely or not pay the bill. That's really horrible. I see the minister smiling at me, but does he have any idea what it does to people if you can't afford them? Apparently not, because what's he gonna do about it? Nothing. In fact, this is the result of his own policy. Does the Minister have any idea of the consequences of the rising energy bill? How many people get late payments, as far as they don't already have them? How many people end up in debt this way? Does the minister have a visual on this? Mr. Chairman. In the debate on the climate agreement a few weeks ago, the Minister referred to the reduction in energy consumption. Every year, households are going to consume a little less energy, the Minister says. How exactly are we supposed to see that in relation to the amount of the energy bill? Is that a reason to increase the storage of renewable energy enormously? Moreover, the so-called reduction in energy consumption is too minimal to actually reduce the bill. In fact, the Minister says: if you really want a lower energy bill, you should turn off the heating and the light. 'Cause that's what it comes down to. Households only want to save energy if it delivers concrete results, so lower costs. But at the same time, if the tax on energy is increased tremendously, it is not going to make any progress. There's no saving against that. Let me be clear, as the PVV has said before, the storage of renewable energy, which is nothing but a kind of climate tax, goes to zero. Just abolish that trade and lower energy bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u11	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Sienot of D66. And it scares him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u12	Mr. Chairman. It seems to be a déjà vu for the other speakers. The good news is it's my first time, so I'm gonna enjoy it. At least this debate on storage of renewable energy is the first time for me. With this storage on the energy bill, we are creating a huge growth of wind turbines, solar panels, and if it's up to us, hydrogen, geothermal projects and residual heat from data centers that you can heat around a million households with. That's unprecedented, isn't it? We can take advantage of these opportunities now, and that is partly thanks to this great subsidy pot. With a full SDE grant pool, the Netherlands is going to bet the catch-up race on other European countries, because we are now occupying a sad 23rd place on the ranking for sustainable energy generation in Europe. This storage for renewable energy tariffs is the result of the agreements previously made in the Energy Agreement. In the coalition agreement, the coalition agreed that we would invest even more in renewable energy. The Paris climate goals are loud in the ambitions of this cabinet. We know what we want, and in the coalition agreement we set out with over 100 parties in five sectors how we are going to achieve that. At the same time, the government is already taking steps in the green direction with this storage for renewable energy. Gas is getting more expensive than electricity. This stimulates companies and consumers to opt for electric. This is important, because rapid electrification is the foundation of a clean energy system. In addition, it is important for the safety of the Groningers that we encourage a quick switch from the Groningen gas. Of course, we cannot allow tariffs to rise wildly. Energy is the basis of our prosperity and the effects of a sloppy step forward can also be counterproductive. And it is precisely prosperity that we need to bring everyone into this revolution. As this minister calculated last week, with a 60th share of our prosperity growth up to 2030, we can pay for the energy transition. For my party, these ODE tariffs are therefore, at present, an understandable step forward. Mr. Chairman. However, we still have a number of questions and comments to the law on the following points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u13	Before you begin, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Beckerman for an interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear Mr Sienot say that raising the tax on gas for households, which doubles for next year, makes people consume less gas. I am very curious, because for a lot of people this is obviously not possible at the moment. People sit in a rental house and can't change that much. People are in a place of sale, but they don't have the money to make it more sustainable. Do you think this is fair and do you really think that this will reduce people's use of gas?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u15	Thank you. Then Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u16	Firstly, it is very important to note that all these effects have been taken into account in the calculation of purchasing power figures. In the presentation of the Millions Note, this was also mentioned in detail. All income groups are improving purchasing power. The point specifically raised by Mrs Beckerman of the SP. Of course, we also think that where households are struggling, you should be aware of that, but I think we should see what this can do and what this cabinet is doing to pay attention to it. When I look at the Juice of the Cabinet, I can see that it is actually strewn with terms such as that that it should be accessible to households and that a new distribution of the burden between companies and residents of this storage of renewable energy should be considered and, in any case, how we distribute the burden of the renewable energy transition. In short, it is mentioned in all kinds of places in that letter. The table Built environment is even commissioned to see if there can be a load shift in favour of households. So this has all the attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u17	Mr Sienot very easily points to the purchasing power figures. The CPB has also said that it is precisely that increase in the energy bill that causes inequality to increase rather than decrease. Low incomes get less because of the increase and high incomes improve on the contrary. Now it is very nice that it is mentioned in the letter, but my question is what we will do next year. Because people are really getting into trouble because of that rising energy bill. There's nothing against that for next year. Are you prepared to oppose this, especially for the people who are really hitting this very hard?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u18	Thank you. Then Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u19	There are a few things that I think are important here. The climate agreement is being concluded, and this is being very strongly addressed. And I ask, together with you, the Minister, how can we do things for residents who really need it and really squeeze it? For example, the Empire is taking 27 districts of natural gas. On the contrary, we prefer neighbourhoods where residents now live in drafty buildings. We are already helping them with a quick switch, so they get rid of those drafty buildings and get energy-neutral or perhaps energy-producing apartments and houses. So I would like to say: let us ask the Minister what opportunities he sees more, but let us also see that what is being done by this cabinet to achieve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u20	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u21	I said that we still have a number of questions and comments. They are about affordability for households, about building the energy system with the SDE+ for the future, and about making electricity the smartest choice. For D66, the polluter pays principle is paramount. This certainly means that large consumers of energy and gas must also make their contribution. The climate tables must work with a minimum CO price for the electricity sector and also examine a CO price for industry. D66 wants a real set price for CO emissions by 2020. What is the Minister's commitment to this? With the storage of renewable energy, we also have an incentive to deal with our energy more consciously. Because we want to increase the share of sustainably generated energy. At the same time, of course, it is always wise to return our energy demand. We also do not need to generate or import energy that we do not use from other countries, such as Russia and Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u22	The promotion of CO is also a great appeal to me, because it addresses the problem at source. In fact, however, you can already see the energy tax and the ODE as a form of pricing of CO emissions, namely CO released from the production of electricity or CO coming from the exhaust gas from a central heating system. I calculated this afternoon that the ODE is actually a price of €26 per tonne of CO coming from a flue gas discharge from a CV. However, large consumers, for example in greenhouse horticulture, do not yet pay €1.50 for emissions of a tonne of CO. How does Mr Sienot view this? Does he think that's fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u23	I have just said that we have insisted in the appreciation of the cabinet that the big boys too are simply going to pay more for their pollution. So that's where we'll find each other. The question is: what is the right time to pay the right ratio? How, for example, can we prevent spills abroad, which would simply increase their CO emissions abroad? We also need to avoid passing on into consumer prices. There are all kinds of factors that have an impact. At the same time, the climate agreement tables are being counted and manipulated and all kinds of factors are involved in order to see how we can improve burden-sharing, in such a way that the big companies are actually going to pay more. I do not think it is wise to call for all kinds of things about the right distribution and a new burden-sharing before we have that whole package of measures. I think it's okay that we have everything in view before we do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u24	I'm not just saying something, I'm just saying what the effect of the current arrangement is. I am glad to hear that Mr Sienot says that you should look at it, but he does mention ten reasons for not doing it. And I say about timing: drizzle always comes at an inconvenient time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u25	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u26	My question is: when is Mr Sienot to be given his place?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u27	I brought my umbrella. I think it is simply very good at the moment to note that attention is being paid to burden-sharing. That attention for that is in full in that letter. I have just mentioned a number of examples of this. I also asked the Minister: what can happen to ensure that companies pay more for their pollution, through the CO price that we simply want to see in 2020? We want to see that price tag. So for the moment, I just think it's okay to let the climate tables come up with their agreement first. That's gonna be there before Christmas, before we get the bulbs in the grease. And then we can say more about that very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u28	Speaking of CO pricing and fair distribution, I must tell you that last Monday I had the pleasure of having a debate with Mr Sienot in a room nearby, in Diligentia. Very pleasant, led by Roelof Hemmen. But at the end of the day, you did make a statement about that affair. You didn't get to the 60/40 I advocated, but to 59/41. That's right, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u29	That's totally correct. That was my statement, and that seems to me to be a very commendable aim, so I still support the idea that we should ultimately get companies to pay more than they do now. But the question is also: how do you do that wisely? You're telling the end of the story now, you're basically betraying the lock, but there were a lot of chapters ahead of it, in which I actually said the same things as I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u30	Mr Van der Lee, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u31	I just heard you say that it was not wise to make statements about the relationship at the moment, but you did last Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u32	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u33	I have just made a number of arguments in my speech, and that is not just a Green Lefter who says so. DNB, CPB and economists say there is room for a levy. Scientific research and extensive literature analyses also show that if you introduce a levy, which at most leads to a loss of productivity in the beginning and then has been undone by innovation. So the arguments you mention as a stumbling block have long been refuted by far more authoritative institutions than the political party I represent. Why doesn't this convince Mr. Sienot?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u34	I think the right answer to that is that it does convince us, but the question is what is the time to do things. We are talking here about investigations that make fairly generic statements. We are working here on the Dutch energy market. That is a situation in which we cannot afford major mistakes. Energy is the basis of our prosperity, so we have to deal with it carefully. There are many parties involved. Keying a number of buttons has a whole series of consequences. Before we map all these consequences, I think it would be wise to wait for them first and then comment on new burden-sharing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u35	I'd like to do two-way interruptions, unless you really have something to add. 'Cause otherwise we're gonna do a repeat of moves. I would therefore ask you to ask a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u36	I just wanted to conclude that Mr Sienot needs a lot of words to actually say that he is already convinced but that it blocks him from being in a coalition. I understand that, but just say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u37	Mr. Sienot, you may respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u38	It's true that I'm in a coalition. Fortunately, because the country is being run! The beauty of that coalition is that it's the greenest cabinet ever. That greenest cabinet ever committed itself to working with five sectors, more than a hundred parties, I said just now to work on a climate agreement. This climate agreement should, among other things, lead to better burden-sharing. I'm dying to hear those answers. You too, I understand. Until then, I just want to hold off on making all sorts of statements about new burden-sharing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u39	You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u40	It has already been a great deal: the price of energy must be in line with the financial capacity of households. The government's juice rating says: "The climate table built environment must come up with proposals that, on balance, should lead to a reduction in the burden on households. In addition, the burden and income effects of the transfer must be made transparent." That is why my question to the Minister is: can the Minister take up this task directly when presenting the climate agreement? With the SDE+, D66 wants us to really invest the budget in a shift to real clean energy. This is also the starting point for us in broadening the SDE+, which also promotes CO reduction in addition to renewable energy projects. D66 thinks first of all about projects to save energy. In addition, with my motion last week, we instructed the Minister to examine whether we could bring back the bulkheads in the SDE grant. In this way, while cost-effective but non-renewable sources are being avoided, most of the subsidy is being cut, while the renewable sources that we need for this energy system of the future are fishing behind the subsidy network. My question to the Minister is: when are we going to be informed about the plans to broaden the SDE+? In addition to investing in a clean energy future, this proposal will help the government to achieve two more things: conscious energy handling is promoted by increasing tariffs and it makes electricity the smartest choice, because gas is becoming more expensive than electricity. That is a sensible choice, because electrification really is the basis for the new energy system. Imagine, Madam President, you have a household that runs almost entirely on power and when you've parked your electric car just outside the door, you can return the power from your battery to your home and then on that same power netflix and cook your food. In this way, we come to an integrated energy system in which the resupply of power from batteries relieves the grid. And there are many more smart things possible. We also realize, of course, that switching to energy and power is not just easy for every household and business. We therefore expect support from the Empire as well as a leading role. With price incentives alone, we can't make it. What is the Minister doing to really encourage industry to switch from gas to electric? Can the Minister explain how we support households in moving from gas to electric? Homeowners can decide to invest in solar panels or insulation due to rising energy prices. They have been discussed a number of times this evening, Madam President: there is also a group of households, tenants, who have no influence on reducing their energy bills. We're not looking away from that. We believe that the Empire should help this group, together with the municipalities and housing corporations, for example, to purchase solar panels or isolate houses. It can even be done with simple, cost-effective measures, such as draft strips, radiator foil or adjusting the resume boiler. Can the Minister outline which districts these groups live in and how Rich, Town or Housing Corporation can already help these groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u41	You're done with your block about affordable...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u42	Totally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u43	I shall then give the floor to Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u44	I've had Sienot's speech settled for a moment. I cannot say otherwise, what an incredibly bad but also hypocritical story! He's even talking about netflixes on the energy from your car. I'm sorry, but how do you think of it? He dares even talk about reducing the burden on households and paying attention to households that are struggling. "It's gotta be easy." I have already said it myself: next year the energy bill will go up by €150. A million households already live in energy poverty, and then Mr Sienot says seriously in his speech: yes, I also have a lot of questions to the Minister. Mr. Sienot, you are part of this coalition. You are partly responsible for the energy bill going up so much that people really can't afford it anymore. And then my question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u45	And your question is? I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u46	Mr President, then my question to Mr Sienot is what he's going to do for all those people who can't afford it anymore, other than "have an eye for households" and ask the Minister a few questions. What's he gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u47	I would like to stress once again that all income groups are making progress, including the passing on of these few energy adjustments. That is, I think, very important to note. Of course, the fact that there are people who cannot pay their expenses is something we must deal with seriously. To begin with, 27 districts of natural gas are being removed. Let's see if we can give priority to areas where we get the most profits, just for the people the PVV is talking about. Let's face it, that's gonna get us a lot of money. It means that these people live more comfortably, that they live in nicer homes. Next to those 27 neighborhoods, we need to see what municipalities can do. What can we do with housing corporations? I know there's all that's going on there. I know they're getting a little more room. I would like to ask the Minister whether he can see that more can happen there. But especially for those who now live in drafty buildings, there is the greatest chance of success. We can use the SDE+ for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u48	Thank you. Mr. Kops closing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u49	Every time we get that story from the coalition: we have to look at the overall income picture. I wonder if Mr Sienot is ever going to talk to people in the country. 'Cause they're not gonna notice anything. For people, tenants sitting in an old rental house, the bill goes up by €150. They can't do anything about it. Their burdens are only going up. In the calculations made by the Minister himself, for example, we are talking about solar panels. These calculations assume that people take sustainability measures, energy-saving measures. A lot of people can't. A lot of people don't have the money for it. So the burden for those people is only going up. So stop with that purchasing power tag every time...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u50	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u51	... because it's just not true. People don't notice. So again the question: how is Mr Sienot going to bring down the energy bill instead of such a bullshit story every time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u52	I'm not denying the power bill's going up. I just said gas rises in price faster than electricity. That's good for something, too. That is necessary, because the PVV and I, my party and his party differ from understanding about the fact that the climate is changing, but that changes. We have things to do for that, too. That big step has to be paid for, too. What I find intelligent about this cabinet is that they have tried to find a combination. On the one hand, you must ensure prosperity growth, which is so incredibly important for the growth of the number of jobs. There are 1,000 jobs added every day at the moment. I hope, for example, that the people who are struggling now will soon be able to find a job. Eventually, those are much more important steps to change your situation. Of course, I also think that we should see if we can help people when this is difficult where possible by using our money as targeted as possible and mapping where the biggest punches can be made, so that we can get homes there that are energy-enhancing and energy-neutral. As far as the netflixing on your car's battery is concerned, I would just like to say that it is already happening. In Lombok in Utrecht there is a fantastic project with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u53	Were you at the end of your speech? Yeah? Are you all set?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u54	Almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u55	Almost. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u56	I'd like to finish. With this Sustainable Energy Storage Act we get much more solar and wind energy, in short, clean energy from our own country. D66 wants us to ensure a balanced burden-sharing between households and businesses. I would therefore ask the Minister to keep a close eye on this, especially for those households that can use a little support. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u57	Thank you. I hope you enjoyed the debate a little bit. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Akerboom of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The polluter pays. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, that is the most honest and guiding principle in the sharing of costs for climate policy. However, in the case of storage of renewable energy, a supplement to energy use that will allow renewable energy production to be expanded is precisely the opposite. The supplement is now paid half by households and half by companies. That sounds fair, but that really requires a disproportionate contribution from households, because 80% of CO is emitted by companies and only 20% by households. The fifty-fifty distribution currently available is disproportionate to actual emissions. That is why I warmly supported the SP amendment. The current degressive structure, or rather, the more you consume, the less you pay relatively, is at odds with the polluter-pays principle. This also lacks an important financial incentive for large polluting companies to reduce their energy consumption. Mr. Chairman. Major steps must be taken to make energy supply more sustainable. I am aware of that. But the promotion of renewable energy is urgently needed, because the Netherlands is dangling at the bottom of the lists in relation to the rest of Europe when it comes to this. The additional surcharge on the energy bill can only be justified if it is implemented in a truly sustainable way. It was good to read in the letter we received this afternoon that a lot of renewable energy from the sun and wind is being paid out of the SDE+ scheme. However, as far as the Party for Animals is concerned, biomass installations are not at home in the list of measures that should receive subsidies under this SDE+ scheme. This also brings me to the ISDE fee, which allows individuals to purchase renewable energy supplies. It is a good thing that there is something going on in households, but in practice this is not always for the benefit of the climate. Because the ISDE scheme has already financed 3,600 biomass boilers and 27,600 pellet stoves, I read in the letter of reply. From the local subsidy Amsterdam gas-free is already no longer subsidised pellet stoves and biomass boilers. That is right, because the combustion of wood and pellets causes a very large amount of fine dust emissions, which are particularly harmful and even health problems in densely built areas. In addition, the burning of wood is not CO2-neutral at all. Mr. Chairman. I end my contribution with a measure that should actually be the first step in making energy more sustainable: insulation. Of course, it is a double sin if households with subsidies buy a pellet stove and then that heat immediately leaks out of the house. Energy saving is an excellent measure that should be financed by the ODE and its associated schemes, but the focus on renewable energy technologies is not yet so. There is another motion tabled by my group which calls on the government to examine the possibilities of broadening the ODE system so that it can also be used for energy saving measures. The Minister would come back to that this autumn. That's it now. That is why the question to the Minister when we can expect this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u59	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Moorlag of the PvdA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u60	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party believes that we should invest collective resources in stimulating the production of renewable energy. That is why we were in principle in favour of the ODE system, but the PvdA does think it should be revised. You could say you're the greenest cabinet. In any case, I share that view on the display window. But you shouldn't close your eyes to a number of bottlenecks in the ODE scheme. You can look at anything with green-pink glasses, but there is also a harsh reality. The ODE scheme for the storage of renewable energy is, in my opinion, not sustainable in the long term. First of all, the number of households affected is going to decrease. Mr Sienot spoke about 27 neighborhoods going off the gas. Suppose there are 2,000 of the maybe 6,000 neighborhoods in the Netherlands. This means that the support for the system, the tax base, is becoming increasingly narrower. How does the Minister view this? What are we going to do if, instead of the 8 million buildings we still have in 2048, we still have 100,000 homes that can be used for the ODE? In the longer term, the trend is simply not good. Fewer and fewer households have to pay for the ODE. The second point is that the system is unfair. A number of people are very well able to avoid this kind of energy tax, because they have the self-organising capacity and the investment capacity to make their homes more sustainable. If you have a heat pump and solar panels, it's great. It is also good that you are encouraged to take that step. Mr. Sienot can send a radiator foil brigade to people in rental homes, but that's gonna take years. What kind of story do we have for people who will not be in the isolation programme of their housing corporation for another ten or fifteen years? Meanwhile, their burdens go up. That is not sustainable to my taste.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u61	I naturally welcome this speech by the PvdA, which calls for a perspective for residents. That's exactly what the CDA wants. However, I am surprised at Mr Moorlag's party colleague, Mr Samsom. Actually, he wanted to put that bill up fat for a while. How does Mr Moorlag view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u62	I am not against increasing energy prices or gas prices in itself. However, I believe that this should be accompanied by a policy of good accompaniment. This means that tenants must also be able to bring down their energy bill very quickly. We shouldn't do that the way we do it now. Take, for example, the idea of removing the WZ levy on solar panels. That's great for homeowners. Homeowners look good. If they take out a loan for their solar panels, they can deduct interest on it as mortgage interest. They don't have to pay for the World War II either. There are all kinds of perverse effects under the waterline. I am not against the principle of lifting, but this must go hand in hand with good accompanying policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u63	However, as Mr Samsom suggested to the chairman of the climate table, Mr Moorlag does not think that is such a good idea either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u64	I don't think we've seen the final product yet. I find it too easy and too cheap to score from Mrs Mulder. My point is that this must be accompanied by a good policy, so that those who do not have that self-organising capacity, who do not have that investment capacity, are also able to make their homes more sustainable and thereby reduce the energy burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u65	I wonder if I heard it right. Has Mr Moorlag really said that he thinks that solar panels should not be included in the determination of the WPA value?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u66	No, I'm not saying that. I think this should be looked at carefully. In this room there are sounds that they shouldn't count for the World War II value. You should also ask yourself whether it is fair that you can deduct the mortgage interest on the purchase, while on the other hand you are exempt for the WPA value. My generic thesis is that the people in residential housing, with some investment power, are well off, and that the people who are in rental housing, or who have no investment power, if they have a property, are very badly off with the whole system that we have now developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u67	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u68	Mr. Chairman. These perverse effects will not only occur here, but also in network costs. As more people leave the natural gas network, this will also mean that the cost of maintaining and maintaining the natural gas network will have to be spread over an ever smaller number of households. That's a sneaking process. How does the Minister view this in the long term? Does the Minister also consider that you should properly and thoroughly map the effects on the ODE, but also on the networks, with a long-term vision, to see if the system we now have is still sustainable? I believe that a very targeted exploration should take place. Let me give you another example. We're taxing the CO from the chimney of a central heating boiler now, while heat in your home is a basic requirement, and the CO coming from the jet engine of an airplane, we don't burden. At that point, too, you have to look at whether we should not go to another system. Mr Van der Lee is already advocating a CO levy at source, and I am in favour of that. We're terrified of leaks, but they're not that bad. The Netherlands Bank has issued a commendable report on this, just like CE Delft. My question to the Minister is whether he wants to do a study to increase CO taxation at source.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u69	I got a bit of the impression from Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party that this cabinet is not doing anything about lifting a kind of tax on aircraft CO. Did Mr Moorlag perhaps miss the fact that this is also in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u70	That is in the coalition agreement, but these are timid steps that are being taken. No, I won't be sour, I'll be positive. These are good steps, but if you look at the tax on CO coming from jet engines and the tax on CO coming from central heating boilers, then that is not proportionate and as far as the PvdA is concerned, it needs to be straightened out much faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u71	Yes, and I can also imagine that if you introduce such a levy, you would prefer to do so at European level. That's what the PvdA wants, isn't it? Then you have as much effect as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u72	Preferably European. My question to the Minister is therefore: what is being done at European level to mitigate these spill-over effects? That would remove a threshold. This might also help to increase the willingness of other parties to tax CO at source, as well as a little more balanced between households and businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u73	Thank you. Mrs Mulder, we're actually doing the interruptions in half. I see you're gonna sit down again. Thank you. Mr Moorlag continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u74	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The system was good in concept, but it needs to be revised. If you calculate the differences in rates and turn them into a tonne of CO.I mentioned it during the interruption even though...................................................................................................................................................................... That's a difference of a factor of 17. Mrs Akerboom mentioned that as well. This relationship between companies and households is not good. Let me get this straight. Is the Minister prepared to explore the alternatives to the ODE, where the starting points are: fair burden sharing, the polluter pays principle, continuity, transparency and comprehensibility? I would like to emphasise that comprehension because with a system of energy taxes, tax rebates and ODE you have to hire almost Hans Kazán or Hans Klok to understand your energy bill. It is not good for the public's support if it becomes so opaque. Mr. Chairman. The government's intention is to use the SDE for other purposes such as CCS. The Labour Party is against it. That undermines the support for the energy transition. The debate on nuclear energy has been stirred up again. Are there any plans or ideas? Does the Minister share the view that we should not use the ODE to promote nuclear energy? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u75	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Mulder of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u76	Mr President, thank you. The CDA wants the cost of the energy transition to be reduced and distributed fairly. We are talking here today about the storage of renewable energy and the subsidy on renewable energy plus. Can the Minister explain to us again what factors are involved on the revenue side and on the expenditure side in determining the total amount to be collected through the storage of renewable energy and how it works in terms of tariffs? For example, to what extent does this year's warm weather or the delay in realisations still affect the level of storage of renewable energy for next year? I have warned against increasing the rate of storage of renewable energy in recent years. In order to do something about this, we need to have a picture of which households are the hardest hit by the energy bill, so that we can also take that into account. The Minister's reply does not make it clear to me what the shift in storage of renewable energy means from electricity to gas for a household. Which households are going down how much more than was foreseen last year for 2019? I would also like to know from the Minister what this shift from electricity to gas means for the distribution of costs between households and companies. I ask this because the electric discs are different from those for gas. In the case of electricity, more is collected in the second, third and fourth discs than in the case of gas. Does the shift from electricity to gas mean that companies are going to pay less than households? Can the Minister indicate how many companies in the first disc pay for gas and electricity? How is this expected to change for 2019? Households should not pay more than 50% of the account as regards the CDA and as agreed. And all these households are in the first disc in particular. Mr. Chairman. In addition, there will be a broadening of the SDE+. That's the subsidy on renewable energy plus. This makes it even more important for the proposal to have a fair and verifiable distribution of tariffs. Can the Minister explain how he is going to take care of this and can he also ensure that this fifty-fifty distribution is maintained? Before that, I have a motion in my pocket. Mr. Chairman. Fair distribution means, in the CDA's view, that households and companies with solar panels should also contribute to the storage of renewable energy. People who already have solar panels have deliberately opted for renewable energy. They are generally enthusiastic about this and often feel involved in the energy transition. How is the Minister going to ensure that this group is also in solidarity with those who have fewer opportunities? Now it is true that someone with a poorly isolated home and a small stock exchange contributes relatively more than households with solar panels. What's the Minister gonna do about this? In this light, I would also like to make a comment on the motion of the VVD and D66 on local charges and solar panels adopted today. They ask the government to develop a proposal to keep solar panels out of the ozb by default. I can live with that if that's an autonomous decision of the municipality. But the CDA certainly doesn't want to impose it from above. The CDA believes that municipalities themselves should be able to make that assessment. It is also important to look carefully at who will then pay the bill. I'll give that to the municipalities that are considering it. And think about the paperwork that might come out of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u77	There is an interruption on this subject by Mr Moorlag, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u78	I suspect so too!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u79	However, I am pleasantly surprised by a number of elements of Mrs Mulder's contribution. It wonders whether it is fair that those who are energy-neutral do not contribute to the development of wind farms at sea. My question to Mrs Mulder is: is she willing to put it down in an order to the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u80	I have already raised this objection at several times, because I have, quite frankly, been disturbed by this for years. I think it's really weird that this is happening this way. And I think there will also be a new arrangement, so I certainly expect the Minister to take this into account, because this is not a matter of solidarity. You and I will agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u81	And when would the minister have to deliver?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u82	It has to do with the netting arrangement. It's under review now. I think that or end of this quarter or beginning of next year will come to the Chamber. I would like to hear from the Minister when he will be here today. But I assume that this element has been resolved, because I do not think it can be explained. And frankly, a lot of people who have solar panels don't even know this is playing. When you tell them that, they often feel very bad about not contributing to those windmills at sea, because they often want to realize that. So I think this should be corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u83	There is also an interruption by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u84	I hear Mrs Mulder speak a great deal about the fair sharing of burdens, and the fifty-fifty should even be maintained. I would like to come back to last summer and to the words of your group chairman. He fears "a Fortuynrevolte" when it comes to financing the energy transition. How can I reconcile this with the cabinet decision to cut the return on the energy tax by €51?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u85	This debate may sometimes be a bit of a repetition; I also think back to the questions that Mr Sienot had. In total, if anything, it must be so that your purchasing power does not deteriorate. And for a lot of groups, it's getting better. But groups are vulnerable, and we definitely need to be aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u86	But it must be very painful for Mrs Mulder to be given a higher energy bill in people's imagery. The cost of the transition seems to be mainly passed on to them. And just to stay in the summer atmospheres: I get the feeling that Mr Buma was squirting spirits in the barbecue when he made that remark. Because this is the way to release a Fortuynrevolte: saying that it is threatening, and then taking a measure that promotes it. You can't settle for that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u87	I think it's the same question. Anyway, I'm giving Mrs. Mulder a chance to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u88	Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see that Mr Van der Lee may not have been fully aware of how Mr Buma, my colleague and group chairman, intended this. His main concern is that this kind of thing should not be openly talked about, because we have to realize the whole energy and climate transition at all costs. Right now, those tables are busy. What we have here today is, in particular, a result of the Energy Agreement of 2013. That is where the whole billing goes, and one step that the cabinet has already taken in the area of climate and energy. Mr Van der Lee is a no-brainer, but that's the way it is. That's how this is done. Then perhaps more steps will be taken. Of this, Mr Buma has indicated that this is not an easy task. We want to take a good look at how we are going to do this, otherwise the same thing will happen with migration. That was a subject we didn't actually talk about in this Chamber. If you said something critical about that, you were especially shocked by the left; I'm just saying it as it is. I have had great problems with that and so have my group. That is what Mr Buma meant by drawing that comparison between migration and climate: you must now also dare to be critical and not just give a blank cheque and say yes to everything. You have to think about it carefully and do it with policy. That's what we do in the cabinet, and I'll check the cabinet for that from those benches over there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u89	No, Mr. Van der Lee, we're doing interruptions in half. Mrs Mulder continues her speech. I see you have something to say, Mr. Van der Lee, but we're doing two-way interruptions. I just gave you the opportunity to ask a third question. That was not a question then, so I have, frankly, not such a good experience of having you ask an extra question. You're gonna have to earn it a little bit, I think. I give the floor to Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u90	Mr President, you have been very strict with me just now. I wasn't allowed to ask a third question, but okay. Mr Van der Lee knows how we stand in this regard. Mr. Chairman. Fair sharing of desires and burdens also means that residents should be able to participate in renewable energy and energy saving schemes. Now, in June, we received a letter on the modernisation of the netting scheme and a new energy co-operative scheme. That letter states that the Minister would inform the Chamber about this this summer; it is now November. What is the timetable for this new energy co-operative scheme? Finally, Mr President. Over the past few years, my group has always been critical of the increased revenue from storage of renewable energy: that was always more than it needed to be spent. As a result, the budget reserve now contains a substantial amount of money that has been raised for the promotion of renewable energy. Can the Minister assure us that these resources will continue to be used for this purpose in the future? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u91	There is an interruption by Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u92	I had to look up a few things, because I was a little surprised. Did Mr Mulder refer to the Lodders/Van Weyenberg motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u93	Ma'am!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u94	What did I say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u95	Sir.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u96	Did I really say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u97	You really said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u98	Boy, Chairman, no chance!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u99	But I think it was straightened out like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u100	That says something about how sharp I am for my input in a moment. I'm looking forward to all the interruptions right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u101	Okay, I won't ask any questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u102	Good. Go ahead, before your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u103	Mrs Mulder said, if I have understood correctly, that I shall check that she thinks it is a bit crazy that we are now making statements about this in the Chamber. If you place solar panels, your WOZ value can become higher. In fact, local, per municipality, should be looked at how we deal with it. In her opinion, we should not make a ruling on this in the Chamber. I thought I'd check that motion. Now I see that the CDA has voted for it, so either I see it all wrong, or I am a little confused by the remark made by Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u104	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, through the chairman. As far as we are concerned, this should become an autonomous decision of the municipality. It should not be something we impose from above. If they want that extra burden and want to deal with it that way, I have no objection to it. That is why we have also voted in favour of this motion, because that investigation is still going to be carried out. So I saw that space. If that was not the intention of the VVD, I may have supported the wrong motion this afternoon. I hope that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u105	That certainly raises another question for Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u106	There's still room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u107	Let me rephrase. Does Mrs Mulder agree with the VVD that it should not matter where you live in that respect? If you want to invest in sustainability, for example through solar panels, you should not be penalised in cost that you experience it more as a punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u108	That sounds very sympathetic and in a way it is, but in the end someone always has to pay the bill. And if that's the people from three-way back, who don't have their own roof that they can put solar panels on, you're almost doing some kind of income policy. That doesn't really seem like the VVD's, so that's not how I understood it. I have understood that this space exists, that eventually municipalities can decide for themselves whether or not they want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u109	Interrupts in two, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u110	Nice debate. But she's still coming, so I'm just gonna ask her questions later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u111	There's Mr. Van der Lee again, seeing his chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u112	I think this is the third interruption this evening, but I would like to help Mrs Yesilgöz-Zegerius on this point. I also have contact with aldermen about how to handle this. Those aldermen tell me that I also knew that the WWZ value is determined by an estimate of the value of your home, based on values of houses in your surroundings. But the city doesn't know who has solar panels at all. You can say: give the municipalities the freedom to consider the increase in value resulting from solar panels on the roof, but how the hell is a municipality going to do that? Who's she getting that information from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u113	It is not entirely true that the ozb is spot on. There is indeed a look and once in a while there is a recalibrate. I've also been a city council member, so you'll pay attention to that, otherwise of course you have no basis at all. I imagine you did not vote for that motion this afternoon, Mr Van der Lee, because you are all arguing why this is not a good plan. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u114	To answer this question, I believe that we have voted in favour of this motion, but we would like to interpret it in a slightly more friendly way, including for municipalities. As far as I know, there's no looking at the individual house. The result would be that as a resident you have to object to the ozb tax and say: I have installed solar panels, which are worth so much and that must be deducted from my attack. This is going to create a great deal of administrative burden, including for citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u116	That wouldn't be the CDA's intention, would it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u117	You have given an interpretation of how you see the motion. Do you have a follow-up question? No. But Mr Moorlag does. I give the floor to Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u118	But this is a nice debate, so I'm very curious. Mr. Moorlag. Sorry, I'm not the chairman. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u119	I always distinguish between intelligent bad proposals and non-intelligent bad proposals. I really think that, when we make proposals, we should think very carefully first. The idea is not to involve solar panels in the WZ, but why the heat pump? Why does it have to count in the World War II value? As for the determination of the WZ system by municipality, the WZ value also determines the water levy. Do the neighbouring municipalities, where it counts, have to pay relatively more waterboard charges?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u121	No, my question to Mrs Mulder...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u122	It looked like a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u123	My question to Mrs Mulder is whether a little more thought should first be given, before all kinds of balloons and flares are launched.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u124	I believe that the PvdA has also voted in favour of this motion. That's just before the historiography here. And that is why I was finally able to vote in favour of this motion: because that room was in it with that investigation. Then all these hooks and eyes will come out. And then we're gonna make the decision. We can always say that it might not be wise in this way. I do not have time to examine everything here, I honestly admit that I have 0.5 fte of support so you cannot expect that from me as a Member of Parliament either. But I think the thinking is a sympathetic one, so I support the motion. But I would like to know whether our municipalities can decide autonomously whether or not they want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u125	The PvdA is also in favour of research, and that is why we also support motions that call for this, because then a good separation can be made between the non-intelligent bad proposals and the intelligent bad proposals, and perhaps also the very good proposals that come from them. So I respond not so much to those investigations and to motions on them, but to the concrete proposal to determine it by municipality. My question to Mrs Mulder is: do you therefore consider the side effects, such as water pollution and other effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u126	So the question is whether the research will eventually come out of whether this is smart to do and what the pros and cons are. But if you are going to do it, then we think it would be wise to make that decision by local authority, because we expect that there will also be a lot of red tape for each municipality. Then you can consider whether you want to or not as a municipality yourself. Then you might bring down the ozb with a euro or five to ten, and then you'll have the same additional burden, and you'll have to shine it somewhere else. So I don't know if that's gonna make it so much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u127	Thank you. I have the feeling that you have not yet been fully debated on the motion that has been adopted. That's remarkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u128	No, but there's still some coming to the room. So we'll just move on. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u129	Well, well, well. Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius of the VVD for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, more and more people see that we need clean energy. It is the only way to ensure that we can pass the Netherlands on beautifully and nicely to the generations after us. And you know our position by now: we too think it is only natural that we take responsibility today, take action and therefore clean up our mess. But we do want to ensure that we look for smart and manageable solutions. I actually think that is true of most of my colleagues here. Congratulations. Unfortunately, it doesn't mean it's free. Of course, we have to be honest about that. Just as we pay for good care, for good education, for safety in our country, for the police, for our security services, we will also have to contribute to a cleaner world. We do this, among other things, through a levy on top of the energy bill. As you said, ODE stands for "storage renewable energy." Again, we have to be honest about that: that is not funny. And that's what no one here says either. But without this, we cannot invest in clean sustainable sources. That's what we all pay, so companies and households, a lot of money. That is why we must work together to ensure that these costs remain as low as possible. We must ensure that we can do as much as possible with as little resources as possible. Mr. Chairman. We can agree to this change, partly in view of the fact that people at the bottom of the line are improving their purchasing power. I have three questions about the ODE, the SDE and all those abbreviations that came through here tonight. It's, I think, extremely important that people know what they're actually paying. I have to confess to you that before I spoke on climate and energy, I had never heard of the ODE. It was only when I started the first debate on this last year that I looked at my energy bill that I thought: wait, so there's just more behind it. Now I understand much better what's behind it. But I would actually give that to any Dutchman. So I would like to know from the Minister whether there is room for us to see how we can make this more transparent. We want to be able to take people into it, we want to make it clear what they are actually paying for, but also what it's getting, what it's meant for. I think that if we give people that insight, that can also help to create support. Mr. Chairman. It has already been said here by several colleagues: the ODE is rising. I am very curious to see how the Minister looks at this and what the cabinet is going to do about it in order to limit that increase as much as possible. I think that's what we all want. Mr. Chairman. I see someone's at the interrupting microphone, but I'll just ask my last question. Then I'm done with my speech. Of course, we are also going to broaden the SDE, so the ways in which we can generate even more renewable energy or reduce those CO emissions. I wonder if the Minister could answer the question as to what that might mean for the ODE. Does that mean a huge increase? How can we ensure that this increase is limited and that we do it in such a way that it is manageable for every Dutchman? Mr. Chairman. I think it was. Now I'm gonna keep my mouth shut for the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u131	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u132	The SP and the VVD strongly disagree on this issue, including the distribution of the lusts and burdens. We consider this tax unfair. But we've actually had a lot of debates on that. Today I thought: I'm going to see if I can get closer to the VVD. I hear Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius saying that we need to think carefully about what is smart. I made a proposal. This law is now five years old. Wouldn't it be time to evaluate him?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u133	I don't think it's a crazy idea at all. In my opinion, I read in the Juice of the Cabinet of the Climate Agreement that the cabinet wants to look at what that means, what the ODE is and what wisdom is. So I am absolutely not opposed to an evaluation. Personally, I think it might be better to include it in the whole process of the climate agreement, because then we know exactly what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u134	I'm glad. I think this is a good time, given all the debates we are having about the climate at the moment. As representatives of the people and controlling power, we naturally take up our own position. But I do hear a lot of room from Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, so I hope she will support my motion on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u135	My interruption is, of course, about today's motion. Perhaps Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius would like to point out that she still sees some room for manoeuvre, that the proposal is being worked out in more detail and that we are really going to consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u136	That's a nicely introduced and defined question. Of course, it's always good to see what it means first, what it looks like and what needs to be done. In my opinion, the CDA and the VVD share the need to encourage people to take sustainable measures, including in their own homes and in their own environment. We are also looking for a balance, so that people do not think: now I have made so many investments, and now I see from one side from which I did not see it coming, all additional costs arise. That's the balance we need to guard with each other. But that's about to apply to a lot of parts. So we're always in the business of research, and we're all in the business of thinking about how to do it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u137	That's exactly the space I was looking for on this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u138	Now we have to bring Mr Van der Lee with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u139	I am not going to talk about this motion anymore, because we are still going to have that investigation, and we are going to have some differences of opinion; I can see that happening now. I have another question. It is about cost efficiency and the desire to share the burden fairly. We've had the discussion about the pricing. We were in that hearing with the DNB. There came the steam from Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius' ears when she heard that there might be a significant deterioration in competitiveness. But that was in the context of the fact that there is now an unfair competitive advantage. I'd like to know from her what her vision is actually on the level playing field. When's that gonna happen? If that's not there because we have an advantage, that's okay. But if someone else has an advantage, is it just bad? What's her vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u140	I really admire Mr Van der Lee, who, without getting tired of it, wants to have the same debate in plenary three weeks later. I'd like to start that discussion again. The important thing is that we take smart measures. I know that no one is here for stupid measures, but of course we differ on the definition of "smart." The most important thing is that we constantly monitor what that means for our country, for our business and for those thousands of jobs. The government's juice valuation also states that CO taxation is a possible stick behind the door. The question is whether the industrial table would like to take a good look at this and think about it. Maybe they have other ideas of their own. During that debate, you did not hear me say to the cabinet: that cannot be true; we should not do that. I said: fine, then let us examine it. But if that results in our international competitiveness being damaged so much that there is a chance that companies will leave, there will be more outbursts and take jobs with them, it is sometimes said that 'the Netherlands are poorer, the world is warmer'. It's not: CO reduction at all costs. But I can't do a whole international investigation on the spot and say: with so many and so many... No, of course we have our scientific offices for that. I was indeed very disappointed in De Nederlandsche Bank when it said: go ahead and oh yes, five of the most important sectors in the Netherlands can be severely damaged, but we have to see that. I didn't think that was possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u141	Mr Van der Lee, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u142	Let me focus on what we are talking about tonight in relation to the amendment I tabled last year: 60-40. I asked the Minister: try to figure out what it actually means. The Secretary of State figured that out. It means that the public and the baker will improve a few tens a year and that a chemical giant, one of the largest exotics in the Netherlands, would have to pay an additional €100,000 on an annual basis. That's quite an amount. That's why you buy the warden a car. But that really is not an amount that affects the competitiveness of a chemical giant. Does Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u143	We are all beginning our input into climate debates of this kind: we are facing one of the greatest transitions of our century, of our generation and of the whole world. We're going to reform. Then we also know that we are dealing with a huge number of different types of measures, which fall to households and which fall to business. This is not a matter of: go shower for two minutes, go pay more and then we'll be there. This is a very complex process that we're in together. That's why we're here day after day, week after week. If you look at individual things, whether it comes to households or companies, it's about a combination. It concerns the whole of the package and the question of what it means for the Netherlands. Then, of course, you cannot blame the VVD for saying: then we must make sure that our country gets better, that our economy gets even stronger, that jobs are added and that we achieve the CO reduction. But we want a balanced, balanced package in this way. Each time one thing fishing out and saying "that can be" is, with all due respect, a bit short-sighted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u144	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that he can answer the Members' questions immediately. I would very much like to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u145	Mr. Chairman. I think it would be useful to start with the fifty-fifty distribution. Not all speeches were new, but their dressing was extremely original and the approach routes were original. After that, I should like to say something about the energy bill and then, in the first period, I would like to deal with two amendments which have been tabled to my knowledge, one of which has been replaced by an amendment with a higher number, with a co-author. Then I have the answers of the various Members who did not yet fit in with the two speeches. We have, of course, discussed the 50/50 distribution before, not only last year, but also last week and also the Tax Plan. We all know it's important to keep that 50/50 distribution against the light for once. I've already agreed to that. The reconnaissance of this cabinet period must be carried out with a certain degree of solidity. I said I wanted to look at that, but I also said I wanted to involve all kinds of things. Some of those things just come from the climate agreement. Some things I need are already there, and others aren't. We need arrangements for companies, for example in the form of the CO levy. That counts, and you have to take that into account. That takes up possible space that we could also spend on other things. The increase in infrastructure costs will play a role. This is also a consequence of what is being discussed in the climate agreement. I also mention the industry's own uneconomic peaks. The industry is really supposed to take on uneconomic peaks itself. No, that's not a matter for the government, but you can see that as affecting competitiveness. The PwC report is here. I had it done last year as a result of the debate. It's right there. I would also like to mention the nature and extent of the broadening. That's what we talked about last time. A 50/50 distribution would, according to some of the speakers, be somewhat less logical in the case of broadening. On the household side, of course, the purchasing power and the burden count. I promised I'd look into it. Mr Moorlag asks a more fundamental question: to do a study to increase the burden of CO at source. Later in his speech, he asked for an exploration of the distribution of the ODE. Those are all things that are related to that. That reconnaissance to the distribution of the ODE I promised last year. There will be; that is wise. I just explained that. It is not ready today, so at least I will not be able to honour the initiatives on that issue today. On a more fundamental view of CO taxation, I said a week and a half ago or something that we certainly need to take steps towards a link with the CO emissions of all charges. That is what we are going to do in industry, and that is what we are going to do in the electricity sector, but I have said that we are not going to take the immediate step towards a DNB system. I also think that DNB's calculations and modellings are still too coarse to look at them with confidence. But we are certainly taking these steps, and everyone agrees on that, and we would, of course, prefer to do so at European level, and if we fail to do so, 'pentalateral', as I always say, with the countries around us, we will continue to whimper diligently. Some of these countries are now in complete agreement with us and help with whining, but our very large eastern neighbours, for example, are still a little less enthusiastic. So I go back and forth to Berlin for that very often. That is also an answer to Mrs Beckerman's question as to whether the ODE should be reformed. At least it's being vetted. That they have a tax on pollution in Canada, I am perhaps a little less impressed, because we in Europe are the number three in terms of taxation of all kinds of pollution. We will undoubtedly have differences in our system with Canada, but it is not the case that the Netherlands is a country in which pollution is not taxed. In fact, the implicit CO price for the average motorist is above €300 per tonne. That is what we are doing. The Dutch did not always understand that, but it is there. Mrs Mulder also asked a number of questions about the ODE and its consistency with the SDE. She asks if I can explain again what factors on the revenue and expenditure side play a role in determining the total amount to be collected, how it works in the rates and, for example, whether a hot year has an impact on them. What we're doing is this. The SDE will be issued in auctions on the basis of the most efficient projects, and the ODE will be compiled on the basis of that year's cash expenses. These cash expenditures increase from about 1.1 to 1.7. That's what we're covering the uneconomic peaks of renewable energy, and that's what the ODE has to pay for that year. How does a warm year affect that? There is no backward correction, but there is a forward adjustment. So if it's a very hot year, then we're just unlucky, because then less energy is consumed. People are lucky, but the state treasury is a bit unlucky. So be it, we do. We do adapt forwards, so we always look at what the rates should be on the basis of the estimated consumption. In that case, Mr Moorlag is right, of course, that if we are all going to be much more economical, the base will slowly narrow down. Our gas base is falling much faster than the electricity base. In the first instance, electricity consumption in many households that electrify will be able to increase further. So that board doesn't narrow down that fast. But it is certainly true that if you have a tax that also works on behavior, that the basis is self-defeating. That's what we've seen in extreme form in electric cars. Then suddenly much less tax was collected, because many more hybrid cars were driven. That's gonna be a little less harsh around here, but it's just a fact that if a lot of people start showing the behavior that you want them to show, then the foundation decreases. There are two effects that allow you to capture that basic narrowing. The first is, of course, always that you hope that in the long term less subsidies will be needed. You can see that in every round of the SDE we buy more petajoules per euro and we also see that there will be no need for subsidies in the electricity sector at some point. That will still be the case until 2030, but at some point the need for subsidies is really decreasing, especially if we have a good CO charging system. Then the erosion is also less bad, but until then you should do something with tariff adjustment. That is how that works, but at the same time it is an answer to Mrs Mulder's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u146	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u147	It's a good thing the Minister recognizes that. You can really see with the SDE that the costs are increasing and that the tax base is becoming increasingly narrowed. The essence of my speech is precisely that the ODE is not sustainable in the long term. This issue will also arise in the maintenance of the networks, where fewer and fewer gas users will continue to bear the costs of the network. Does the Minister recognise that the ODE regime is not enforceable and should be replaced by an alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u148	Of course, we all know that at some point it is no longer necessary. At some point, you don't have to subsidise uneconomic peaks anymore. That's in the future. One day you won't need an ODE. In the meantime, there can be a situation that we can't predict at all now that you see the basis shrunk and you might still have cash expenses from the SDE. That could well be avoided, but by then it will be a real luxury problem. By then, households will consume a lot less energy and work will be much more economical. By then, the successor of Mr Moorlag's successor will be discussing this with the successor of my successor. We really have a luxury problem going on and we have achieved a lot. I hope that the successors of our successors will have a good debate on this, but that is not yet on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u149	I'm always in favour of looking forward for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u150	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u151	I have also been on the board of a pension fund for a while, and there is still a little bit further ahead than a cabinet period. Does the Minister share the view that direct pricing of CO will contribute to reducing the need to subsidise renewable energy? Isn't that partly a reason to move faster to direct CO pricing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u152	I have already shown my support for direct CO pricing once, but at the same time indicated its limitations at the moment. The more we are allowed to do it via CO pricing, the better. We just won't be able to do that on our own. Studies show that, too. As you look finer, you see larger shifts. With electricity, that's even very fast. Europe is a copper plate and the Netherlands is a very small spot on that copper plate. If we get out of the market, it's going in the opposite direction and suddenly we're becoming brown coal producers. That's pretty fast. Other things aren't as fast. At the heart of the story is that I support the core of the system that Mr Moorlag is a fan of, but we are not yet in a situation where we can do that just to such an extent. We have to take steps to do that, and that is what this cabinet intends to do. In fact, in our coalition agreement we assumed this in one sector, and in the cabinet juice valuation we added another sector, which we think should also be started. Yes, we want to go in that direction, but do it a little cautiously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u153	Thank you. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand that we really need to be patient, because there are still a lot of things we need to look at and probably all of them are going to change. We are now talking within the context of the current law. If you continue this approach, there will be ground-breaking. Also perhaps because more people are going to generate their own energy and not contribute to the financing of renewable energy. Mrs Mulder has been talking about this for a while. In that light, is it not strange that the same system is used as in the case of energy taxation, but that renewable energy is not provided for in the case of storage? While if the group gets smaller, the chances are that the people at the bottom, who are less easily able to produce their own energy, will also be hit relatively harder in the future. They would benefit from a return to storage of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u155	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u156	Well, that's very much the question. If you look at the plans as they are now, the corporations might win over the private homes. This means that the tenants are the first party to benefit more than the others from the lower energy costs, because the corporations will deal with it more widely and professionally than many individuals. So I think it might be that the people with the lower incomes in a corporation house get their turn relatively early on average, of course not all of them. I don't really see the tenant's disadvantage as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u157	Thank you. In conclusion, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u158	I understand this argument, but that does not alter the fact that there are going to be large differences within the group of tenants. Because we are talking about 2.5 million rentals and it will take many years to make them more sustainable. Then you may be lucky to be in the first group as a tenant, but you may also be unlucky to be the last one and then you pay ten years or more a relatively growing contribution to the storage of renewable energy without any additional compensation. That could have really big income consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u159	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u160	My question is whether the Minister will look into that in his investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u161	We have said before that this is not the case. Several debates have been devoted to this. I think that is no longer Mr Van der Lee's question. He's asking about logic. I say that the result ultimately counts. I keep saying that we see in the calculation Mr Kops does not want to hear it anymore, but it is true that the purchasing power, including the lower group, is increasing. It's true that if you let the CPB calculate that more accurately, it turns out that it just rises 0.2% less than in the state. That is all true, but with that it is still true that in the Netherlands we see all groups increase in purchasing power. In fact, this is one of the years in which the purchasing power gains of the various groups are very close together. There have also been years in which we got that less neatly together. Mrs Mulder, who always wins when it comes to asking detailed questions, still asks how many companies pay exactly. That's all numbers and I can try to read them up, but her real question is whether it's because of shifts in the first disc for gas and electricity that changes 50/50. That's actually her real concern. She says, "You're shoving into that whole building, you had 50/50, and then what changes? No, the 50/50 is the starting point and if you change things in the first disc then the rest becomes so suitable that the 50/50 comes out. That is still separate from the fact that we may one day want to look at the 50/50 and that we want to shift it, but then we do so and so we change those rates. It is not the case that if there are charges shifting between, for example, gas and electricity, this would change the relationship between companies and citizens. It's gonna be fixed over and over on that fifty-fifty. A question that Mrs Mulder also asks, and which I think Mrs Yeşilgöz asked afterwards, is whether the broadening of that SDE means something for that distribution. I think that is something I said at the beginning of my speech, and I think that this broadening is a good reason to look again at this division. Widening was a reason for the division. In fact, there is a great deal to be done about this technically, because it is not the case that a person gets richer by broadening. It is only that the uneconomic summits entered into are reimbursed, so someone is not getting any better. But let's put it this way: politics has been recognized here in order to link that up, and that also means that I will somehow link that broadening with that division of that ODE. That is an answer to Mrs Mulder's question and at the same time an answer to Mrs Yeşilgöz's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u162	I'd like to ask you if you're almost at the end of the first block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u163	Yeah, almost. Shall I try to finish that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u164	Is it okay if the minister finishes that block first? Then I will give the opportunity for interruptions to ask questions. Then the Minister finishes his first block first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u165	Yeah, let's see. There will be the slide from the coalition agreement before 2019. If I understand correctly, Mrs Mulder asks what that means. If you take an average household with the consumption figures from the NEV, that means €1,70 per year. I thought that was her question. Then she also asks about the budget reserve. I think she's asked about that before. I know her as someone who wants to be reassured every now and then that these resources will remain available. And the tradition is that I confirm it over and over again and that she also knows that if anyone wants to use that budget reserve in the future, I am. So the answer to that is yes. Mr President, so much for the 50/50 distribution, but I have not yet had the energy bill. And maybe in my piece there are further questions about the 50/50 distribution, but I saved it for later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u166	Thank you. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u167	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to Mrs Beckerman for having me first, because she was here earlier. How can I control the 50/50 distribution? Because all I see are totals. Table 4 shows the revenues from storage of renewable energy. Well, I guess I'll just have to assume it's 50% against 50%, too. I would like to have a little more comfort on that so that I can really check it out and see those changes as well. This will also be reflected in the SDE+ edition pattern. This goes into it from the ODE, but if it then becomes 90% for companies, and 10% for residents, then something goes wrong. There's also a concern from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u168	I think we should do this a little more thoroughly, because a similar question has actually been put by Mrs Yeşilgöz, if I see it correctly. She says: gut, first of all I would like to have some insight into the energy bill. Energy companies are market players, so they will have to do so for their customers as much as possible. It is not the government that determines how a service provider serves its customers. There are energy companies that might give more information about this than others, I don't even know. But that information should in principle be common to those energy companies. But she also asked about the ODE distribution between citizens and businesses, so the same question as Mrs Mulder's. I think I'm doing the right thing just to put that in a note in a proper table. 'Cause if we're about to do that flying in the room, it's not gonna work out, and everybody's not gonna get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u169	Is that all right with you, Mrs. Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u170	I suggest I make a nice note with a table where you can see that that 50/50 distribution was there, but there's going to be another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u171	Can you tell me when that note can be sent?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u172	When can we get that note? Well, we should be able to make that in a week, right? They're looking very worried right now. Oh, oh,
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u173	Is that okay, Mrs. Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u174	Well, we have another debate on climate and energy on 29 November. It would be nice if we could get it involved. We're now exploring how we're going to proceed. And soon the Minister will come forward with a bill for the SDE broadening. Then you have to be able to weigh that at the same time, because otherwise, yes, you may be going to fix it afterwards, but it is essential. And if it takes so much time to get a good picture of that, and if there are follow-up questions, it's a shame if we don't go through with each other now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u175	Yeah, I think it's a good thing that we have that table in that debate, so you can see that it's 50/50 now. Moreover, the debate on the question is independent of what kind of considerations you would have to come to other divisions. And even during that debate, we do not yet have a climate agreement with all these five missing figures. But I think it would be useful to have that table in the Chamber at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u176	Clear. Then I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u177	I have a question about the relationship between companies themselves. So my question is not about the fifty-fifty. The more you pollute, the less you pay per unit. And the low disk is getting more expensive, and the high disk is getting less expensive. Suppose you're a company and you're going to make a lot more sustainable. Suppose that means you're going to pay taxes in a lower drive next year. So in this system you are actually punished for sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u178	No, because it's kind of like tax discs. You're going through them. So you pay the full pound in the first disc, and then in the second and so on. It's true that the more you come down, the more you get. That's true. That's the opposite of sometimes wanting to be careful at the top. That's what the degressivity is for. But, of course, it's not like you're getting any higher in the absolute sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u179	No, not in an absolute sense. But we are very much concerned about the major polluters and their competitiveness; the minister is slightly more than the SP. We have often drawn attention to the position of households, but we are also very concerned about small and medium-sized enterprises in this proposal. Because they are getting a significantly higher rate and I do not see that incentive for them very well in this legislation. Could this possibly also be included in the evaluation I have proposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u180	Wrongly enough, of course, SMEs have a greater incentive to save than a smaller one, because that tax is higher. I think Mrs Beckerman and I both do not like the effect. We have to make agreements with large companies, and with the largest companies we are going to do so, in a different way. That's also in the cabinet Juice Appreciation. For the time being, we do not only have a levy. That is where we are going to work on a tax, but we are also going to make real agreements with large companies on a path that they must follow. The companies themselves are also considering what the possible sanction or consequences should be if a company fails to do so. It is, of course, the case, and I fully agree with Mrs Beckerman, that we must make sure that the big companies also have an incentive to move. But I'm more careful than she is when it comes to taxing the highest disks. I'll admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u181	There is still a need for a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u182	Yeah, actually very specific. We are now looking at international competitiveness, but there is also national competitiveness: do we only favour large companies over small and medium-sized enterprises? I would also like to take this into account in the way in which we impose climate tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u183	Okay, I see that could be a wish. Shall I try to pay attention to that, too? Of course there are very few companies in the highest level of the album. Hoogovens does not compete with all small and medium-sized ovens. Much of this is therefore not direct competition. But I can imagine that this question could play. To what extent it plays, I will then try to involve in this possible other design of the ODE, in the in-depth study I have promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u184	I'd like you to go to the second block now. I would also like to ask the Members of the House if you would agree that the Minister should finish the whole block and see if there are any questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u185	Mr. Chairman. There have actually been very limited questions about the energy bill. There have been a lot of complaints and many suspicions about the energy bill, but I really want to stress that it's going to end up like "Kops doesn't want to hear it," but I'm looking at him in the eye anyway because of what the wallet can buy, about purchasing power. That's where all the groups are getting better. I also oppose, as I briefly explained last time, the story that there would be an average increase of €150. No, it's not. The average increase is about €108, but part of it is really backed back by income tax. I think that's a noble goal. That is the reduction of labour costs. Then there is a net increase in the cost of €50 per year. Yeah, that's still an increase. That's true, because sustainability costs something. But I think we should see the numbers in their perspective. I shall now turn to the various questions raised by the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u186	Minister, you're done with the power bill block?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u187	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u188	Then you would do the block amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u189	I think I have to go through the questions first and then the amendments at the end. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u190	I think that's fine. Then you will end with the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u191	I just forgot to list that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u192	It doesn't matter at all. The individual questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u193	Mrs Beckerman asked the evaluation question. I thought that was a very good question. I have an answer to that. The evaluation of the SDE results from the General Administrative Law Act. It states that a grant must be considered at least once every five years. A report on effectiveness and impact should be published. But of course the ODE isn't a grant, that's the SDE. The ODE is the nutrition of the subsidy. So the ODE is not strictly covered, but I think I have just explained that we are all curious if there is any reason to redesign the ODE. That's why I promised an in-depth analysis last year. So there's gonna be one. That's what I'd like to do for the ODE. Then Mr Kops asks how on earth we could know that there is a falling energy consumption, because there is no NEV. No, that's right, but there is a PBL and we have a long-term series and there's a whole science about slowly becoming more efficient households. These were used in viewing consumption. So we don't necessarily need a NEV for that. That long series also helps us through winter. He also asks how the tariff on electricity could rise. We have adapted the ODE to the level of expenditure on the SDE's cash base. There is an increase and the shift then provides electricity for a relative reduction. On balance, however, there is still an increase, as he has pointed out. That's absolutely true. Mr Sienot asks what my commitment is to a fixed price tag on CO in industry. In his language, he was quite secure, because he talked about a "minimum rate" in the electricity sector, as stated in the coalition agreement. In industry, he mentioned the word "levy" in one form or another. It may well be that at this stage this is not necessarily a fixed rate, but that there are different arrangements for different sectors. We have often said it to each other, and ultimately we need to grow slowly in a European or global context towards a uniform tax. That is the most efficient way to ultimately make it more sustainable. Anyway, the world isn't quite ideal yet, so we're trying to find the loopholes to offer. But it's not quite a fixed price yet. He asked when the widening of the SDE would follow. That's gonna work this calendar year. He also asks how we deal with low-income households, for example, who would have difficulty in making them more sustainable. Let's distinguish two groups. I have already expressed the suspicion that the tenants are, at least on average, better off. I think buyers, also at the bottom, could be well helped with financing arrangements. We're looking at how you're influencing net living expenses with that now. You want, of course, to be able to spread the costs associated with investment in such a long time that they are largely or completely compensated by lower energy costs. That's what you want. You want the net amount that comes out of it, if that's positive, just to be manageable and that parties understand that sometimes it can happen in the short term if the gas in their neighborhood would stop flowing. You want the net amount to be very manageable. Financing arrangements are therefore very important for the property owner, but the behaviour of the corporation is again very important for the tenant. I think we have quite a lot to expect from the corporations. Support specific households to get off the gas? This is, of course, strongly linked to the district plans. We need to develop the heat plans per neighborhood. Municipalities are gonna do that. They are also the front office for citizens, for households. They will sometimes also have to take people step by step when deciding which heat system is suitable for them, what needs to be done about the kitchen or the shower. All that has to be affordable. That goes in the same way with the financing arrangements. But that's the way people get helped. People sometimes ask me: what am I supposed to do now? There are a lot of things that people can do, but for many parties the big change in your home is better to do as a collective in the context of an entire community. Then they get guidance, but then there is also cost-effectiveness, because then you can offer collective solutions. I thought so, but I must be wrong to have noted the question of him, too, in which neighborhoods groups live with low incomes and drafty buildings. I do not shake that zip code overview, but perhaps I have understood Mr Sienot's question too widely. If that's a big question, I can't answer it. But if he has a more practical question, I can do my best. I'll leave it to him. He buttons the jacket and looks at me with combat. But there's no way he's coming to the microphone yet, so I'm just gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u194	Were you done with the block of Sienot?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u195	I'm done with the Sienot block. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u196	Then I give the floor to Mr Sienot for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u197	Surely it is an important question for us. In cities you can make a nice overview of neighbourhoods where houses are from a particular building, of a particular type that, let's say, has a high chance of trekking? That must also make it possible to say: we can identify that the problem is probably more likely to be felt there than in new buildings delivered with the label A++. That's how you should be able to inventory it, and you should be able to draw up a plan for that, right? That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u198	Sure. Oh, yeah. I can answer that question much better than the one I wrote here. The municipalities not only make plans per neighborhood, but they also organize the neighborhoods. So they're gonna see which neighborhood to go to first. In that case, certain neighbourhoods may have relatively much higher energy consumption than elsewhere per inhabitant or per square metre. We can all imagine that a house built in 2016 has a very different energy consumption than a house built in 1932. Then maybe you should start with the last one. But there are many more considerations that municipalities can use to know where to start. Think of the cost of tackling it. For example, row houses from the 1960s are often uniform and relatively easy to tackle. Think also of the extent to which the gas network has already been written off. All that kind of stuff can be decisive for a community to do one district before the other. We really should leave that to the municipalities. I also find it unpleasant to ask the municipalities first to do this noble task and then to intervene from here and tell them what to do. So it's the municipalities that make these plans. They do that on the basis of a lot of considerations. Some municipalities are already working on that. Besides, they find that it's not always easy. They sometimes bump into a wall. They have been mistaken in their acceptance or they may have underestimated how much information, but also reassurance and help is needed with all kinds of people. We're in the learning phase. There are a lot of aldermen working on it with great enthusiasm. I'll meet them, too. That's the vanguard and the vanguard doesn't have it easy. He needs a little help, too. That is also done from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. My colleague Ollongren is very active with these people at work, but ultimately municipalities have to choose on the basis of such business criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u199	I felt that Mr Sienot was just about to make another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u200	This is very inviting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u201	Mr Sienot stood up earlier and I slowed him down for a while because the block was not finished. But I see that Mr Sienot is abandoning it, so the Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u202	We appreciate your inhibiting influence more than your encouraging influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u203	Minister, I would also like to ask you, frankly, for perhaps a little bit more concise...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u204	I could feel it coming. Yes. In her contribution, Mrs Akerboom told me what she thinks of biomass and the idea that polluters should pay. I must say to her quite frankly that we probably do not disagree on the long-term principles. Because in the long term, there is a shortage of biomass. She doubts more than I do how sustainable biomass is, but I am going to look at the researchers and they on other signals. In the short and medium term, we also need biomass for applications for which we do not yet have alternatives. My point is that we should not rule out options. I would actually like to suggest to Mrs Akerboom that we study the 2018 IEA yearbook, the World Energy Outlook. It's a flaming argument, a statistical book that reads like a novel. Once you've read that, you're afraid to rule out any option. So I would like to join with Mrs Akerboom's concerns about the long-term use of biomass, but in the short term, although sensible and well-balanced, we will occasionally have to see that we also embrace biomass applications in the short term. Then we must be permanently critical of what is sustainable. Mrs Akerboom also asked the question of timing. I just failed her by not mentioning her, but she also asked that question. The energy saving question can also be taken into account. So that's how it works. I have just discussed Mr Moorlag's question about the ODE and its sustainability. Mr Moorlag also asked whether there were plans for an SDE for nuclear energy. Well, no, those plans aren't there. No. I also keep saying here that all options should stay in the race. All possibilities must remain on the table. Every time something is declared forbidden or taboo, I try to get that option back on the table. The same applies to nuclear energy. I don't have any concrete plans for access to the SDE in all honesty right now. I have two remaining questions from Mrs Mulder. The first is how we are going to ensure that the group with solar panels on the roof is united with people who have fewer possibilities for solar panels on the roof. You can never do it exactly, because we cannot make policies for people with and without solar panels, but we need to look at the burden-sharing of the ODE. We need to see how it works at the bottom. People who have solar panels on the roof have been eligible for a subsidy, but they have also made an investment themselves. It is not that the subsidy is meant to make people better off than the rest. The subsidy is intended to compensate them for what they were worse off by doing so. So when someone invests in solar panels, they basically don't have a profitable business case. That piece is pushed up to keep it from getting worse, but not to make it better off in the end. As far as I am concerned, this solidarity is embedded in the mechanism. In the end, I have to report on the return subsidy this year. I must say, however, that it was not all as self-evident as originally hoped, because the issue of energy cooperation is linked to the return subsidy. The implementation of this return subsidy is once again a matter for concern, so that needs to be looked at carefully. Sometimes you write something down and you think it's very easy, but then it turns out to be a little harder when you start working it out. But I'm trying to inform the Chamber about it this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u205	Thank you to the Minister for the fact that at least this year the new energy co-operative scheme will come. That was also what I thought was in connection with the revision of the netting arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u206	Yeah, the return grant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u207	I can imagine the Minister looking at the ODE aspect and oversubsidising. It's really weird that residents put those solar panels on the roof, don't pay to the windmills at sea. I think that is a very strange starting point. I would therefore like the Minister to look at that again. I have another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u208	It is unusual to ask a question back, but is Mrs Mulder's proposal to impose more taxes on people who put solar panels on their roofs? Mrs Mulder and I have so far been concerned in various dialogues about whether the attractiveness of solar panels has not deteriorated. The question she is asking me seems to suggest that she wants to impose additional taxes on people with solar panels, so that they become less attractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u209	Well, if the minister knows me a little longer, he'll know that's not gonna be a CDA plea. We'd like to see that they can be recouped in a year or seven. That is what we have always said. I think it's weird that you're gonna take care of it that way, through the storage of renewable energy. That's what I care about. Everyone should actually contribute to the windmills at sea. That is what I think is at the heart of the matter. I find it very strange that they are not doing so at the moment. That's not exactly a plea to throw the ODE on top of that, but rather to look at the total amount of the subsidy scheme for these people, so that it's attractive to do so within a year or seven, but not so that not everyone pays off to windmills at sea. I just don't think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u210	I think you answered the Minister's question. You also had another question. The Minister will be able to respond to that later. Your question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u211	The Minister has just told me that the additional revenue entered in the budget reserve will eventually be used for the same purpose. Isn't that what we're talking about? We're talking about both renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u212	Yes, the targets as listed in the SDE. It is a budget reserve that is deployed in the SDE as it currently exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u213	I am specifically concerned about whether this money has been raised to achieve renewable energy. We're about to widen the SDE+. So it may be that with the reserves you are going to serve the other goal, namely CO reduction, which has been specifically collected for renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u214	Let me put it this way: I take this aspect of the budgetary reserve with me in the broadening and shaping of the ODE. I will then make a statement as to whether there is anything against using this in a generic sense, or whether it should be used more specifically. That depends, of course, on the establishment and the broadening. I still need to respond to the issue of solar panels and ODE. I do not think this is an independent point. If someone puts solar panels on the roof, it's not a closing business case. We will somehow compensate this person for that. This can be via return delivery and therefore the absence of energy taxation and ODE. That's a way of subsidising, though that's a bit of a crazy. We're doing that now, and that's one way. Another way is to subsidise him for that. You can of course say: if someone has solar panels, he still has to pay the ODE. That's fine, but then the return subsidy has to be increased. In the end, all we have to do is cover the uneconomic top. In that sense, it's the cardigan pocket pocket. That's always about the same amount. If you're gonna let him pay another tax on top of that, you're gonna have to give him more funding. Eventually, it doesn't matter. There's only one uneconomic top and you want to cover it. So I do not think this issue is relevant. That's what I'm saying. I think I have answered Mrs Yeşilgöz's two questions. I am therefore through the additional questions of the spokesmen. I wanted to go to the block of amendments, but I am waiting for the President to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u215	That's very nice. Thank you, Minister. I'd like to ask you one more question. Actually, we've had all the cubes. I call Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u216	I was a little triggered by the Minister's unfamiliar plea that he does not want any options off the table. Nothing can be said to be taboo. Well, I'm also honest to say that he's referring to ways of generating energy. He also admits that he has some problems with working out the return subsidy. My question is: is the option that the existing netting scheme should remain completely off the table for a little longer? Or does it also apply here: it is not definitely off the table yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u217	This one's been around for a year longer than we thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u218	My question is: if you don't get out, can it be that we fall back on what we have?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u219	Mr Van der Lee is now asking what will happen if I fail to come up with something; if I am prepared to do something else. I don't know. In one way or another, we will have to pay attention in the financial sense to uneconomic peaks of solar panels on roofs. If it can't be done in one way, it has to be done in another way. But I'm not going to elaborate on how and what if this or that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u220	That's clear. We now come to the amendments. Two amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u221	In part nos. 7 and 9. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u222	Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u223	That's right. I have dealt with both issues. The issues are not very different either. The mechanism is something else. One is even more ingenious than the other. In my speech, I have actually advised them against both.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u224	The amendments to item No. 7 and 9 advises the Minister. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive first-term response. I look at the Chamber and note that there is a need for a second term. I ask you to use the second term to file any motions. You can also think for two minutes about what you are going to do in that second term. A lot of questions and answers have been exchanged, so it would be nice if you read only the motions, or perhaps give a brief explanation. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u225	We start now with the second term. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to the Minister for reply. I will not table any motions, because that would be a form of self- chastisement, to further strengthen the déjà vu feeling that I have, by submitting motions of which I can also guess what the outcome will be. I just have a question about the future. I fully understand that the Minister has made a choice when it comes to costs and charges, and that he would like to assess them as a whole. For this, he wants to know what is in the climate agreement and what instruments we can agree and what the joint impact is. I still have a rather fundamental question. Where do we define in the levies when something is relevant or not for CO reduction? Maybe I should explain that a little more clearly. In my opinion, every tax and tax you levy has a CO-reducing effect, whether it comes to a company or a citizen. Because you can't spend that money on things that are fun or to do things and where CO might be emitted. You give that to the government. In this sense, it can be said that each charge has a certain effect on CO emissions. If you want to make a total balance, then you have to make a choice: what kind of tax do I really think is relevant in the context of climate policy and which is not? The Minister himself is constantly using the example of how we tax the car. We have a bpm and we charge excise duty. These are all measures that we have introduced in the past, not to reduce CO, but that is the effect of these levies. I recognize that. But where do we put the border? Because you can say with the same decency that a profit tax also has a CO-reducing effect, because the company cannot invest that part of the profit in factories that emit CO again. That's also a CO-reducing effect. So where are we gonna set the line? So how are we going to determine the total picture together? And how are we to be taken in as a room? At that point I am very curious about the near future. I do not envy the Minister, I think I have said this before, because it is quite complicated. But you have to draw a line somewhere. My conviction is that the balance sheet is not good and that at least there is room to burden large-scale users much more than is currently the case. I don't think it's a surprise I'm gonna look at it like that. That is the question to the Minister. I would like to make one more point in the direction of Mrs Mulder. If I understood her group chairman's remarks correctly, he felt, like the VVD, that there would be a taboo on the issue of nuclear energy and that there would be a taboo on the debate on the fair sharing of the burden of the climate and energy transition. So that's really hard for me to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u227	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u228	Yes. I have only been a Member of Parliament for one-and-a-half years, but I do not remember a debate on this subject which has not been discussed. So how on earth can it be said that there is a taboo to the debate on the fair sharing of the burden of energy and climate transition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u229	I understand Mrs Mulder wants to respond to that. Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u230	Whether the word "taboo" is the right word? And then compare it to nuclear power: I think that runs a little limp. But I understand that Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks comes to that comparison. We are concerned not only with the distribution of the needs and the burden, but also with the ascending account. It can't go on forever. That is a concern that Mr Buma has expressed, and that is a concern I share with him. It would adorn GroenLinks if it shared that concern and not just endlessly chased up the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u231	Thank you. You've run out of time. This is a repetition of a piece I have experienced in this debate before as President. So I now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u232	I'm getting an interruption!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u233	How it went: We all witnessed that. You said something to Mrs. Mulder and Mrs. Mulder responded. You've been through your time. So I shall now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u234	Mr. Chairman. Maybe I'll start with this little debate, which ended abruptly. I'm having trouble with it. Here in the Chamber we hear a lot of parties saying that the energy bill is rising. That's what we hear outside the room. A number of group chairmen spoke about this. If we allow this law to pass tonight, we will increase the energy bill considerably next year, while all kinds of measures to compensate households will come much later. We hear nice words about that, I'm sure. We're going to raise the energy bill again next year. That's what we did last year. And a lot of households will be in trouble and will not be compensated for this next year. I find that very problematic. I would also like to table a motion on this, and that is the motion for a resolution on the proceeds of the ODE to households. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for households the gas tariff doubles;]] [[believes that low-income households and middle-income households can often do little to reduce their gas consumption;]] [[considers that this charge could undermine the support for the energy transition;]] [[calls on the Government to partially transfer the proceeds of the ODE to the ISDE scheme and also to open it to energy saving measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Akerboom. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35004-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u235	Mr. Chairman. I would actually like to go much further into that. Because, as you know, I find this really unfair. We're gonna raise the energy bill considerably first. This does nothing for the climate itself, and for households it can simply cause serious problems. However, I have managed to formulate the motion fairly sympathetically, so I hope for the support of all those parties who have said that they find it very difficult to raise that energy bill, but not much. And in the direction of Mr Sienot, I say: of course it is nice that we have 27 neighbourhoods as a testing ground, but that does nothing for the millions of other people who also see their energy bill rising. Mr. Chairman. I come to my second motion, which, if possible, is even more sympathetic. It's a motion on the evaluation. I listened to the Minister very carefully. He wants to go quite far and commit all kinds of investigations. I like that very much. Let us really make a formal evaluation of it, as when the ODE was introduced also requested by various parties on the right of me here in the Lower House. That's what I made the "motion evaluation ODE" of. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a regular review of a law or regulation is indispensable to ensure its effectiveness and original objectives;]] [[calls on the Government to evaluate the Sustainable Energy Storage Act including the annual tariff changes and to inform the House of Representatives before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Akerboom. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35004-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u236	Mr. Chairman. I cannot anticipate the results of such an evaluation, but I think it is really important to do so. I sincerely wonder whether the ODE is still the best means of achieving the goal we have, namely to combat climate change. However, as far as I am concerned, this must be done in a fair and just way, and I do not think that the current law is a good thing. So that's why I'd like an evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u237	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The rising energy bill: virtually everyone has talked about it. The PVV has a solution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to abolish the ODE and the SDE+, thereby reducing household energy bills,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35004-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u239	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u240	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Sienot for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u241	Thank you, Madam President. Look, the power bill's rising. That's as clear as day. But that's not for nothing, because that's what we're doing. Maybe that's a good thing to mention, because the cost of doing nothing is much bigger. And we build a lot of beautiful things with those proceeds. At the same time, we consider affordability to be important, and we continue to pay close attention to this. That's what I've been talking about in my contribution. I am very curious to hear about the various arrangements made by the Minister on this subject for the various sectors when it comes to the CO tax. I am very much looking forward to studying the climate agreement, later on at the Christmas tree. The burden and income effects would be known to the credit transfer. At least, our question was, and we have not heard an answer from the Minister: when the plans of the climate agreement are known and those burden and income effects can be calculated, can this really be implemented as soon as possible? Can the Minister take up that assignment as soon as possible, so we can really get a look at it? Because much is being called here, but the facts are just not yet known. Then, as far as the transition to a truly sustainable energy system is concerned. We hear this year how we're going to broaden SDE+. That sounds very good, because I'd like to have that discussion with the Minister. I am also very curious to see whether large-scale energy saving projects can be included. So I look forward to that discussion, because I think we can really help people quickly if we can really use an industrialised approach to make the streets more sustainable. Finally, Madam President, I would like to conclude by asking which areas we can already help. The Minister and I have already discussed this; we have had a little exchange of views. The minister said that the ball for that is very much with the municipalities. Of course, I agree with that and I hope that the municipalities will be able to help the people for whom it is difficult as soon as possible. But I can also imagine that there is a role for the Empire to at least monitor where these problems are. Where the Empire can mean something to help the municipalities with that monitoring, it can make a plan for that. I would like to conclude with that, Madam President, and I would like to thank the Minister for his answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u242	Thank you. Then I'd like to give the floor... Oh, there's another interruption by Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u243	Mr Sienot introduced a new point in the second term. He said that the damage of doing nothing is greater than doing something. Can he explain that for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u244	Oh, yeah. For example, De Nederlandsche Bank says that. We have had a round table. I don't know if you were there too, where various parties have said so, but well, let me leave it with De Nederlandsche Bank. It has just calculated different scenarios and says: it is financially by far the smartest to act now; yes, it costs money, but if we don't, it saves tens of billions per scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u245	Mr. Kops, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u246	Mr Sienot referred in an earlier debate to a report from the Planning Office for the Environment. That's what he rubbed me under the nose: you should read it sometime. I did. It says that the damage to the environment cannot be calculated at all. A few quotes: "Several uncertainties play a role in these kinds of calculations. The assessment of environmental damage has many uncertainties. There is no good insight into the exact current level of environmental damage in the Netherlands. The calculated environmental damage ranges from 16 to 49 billion." That is rather spacious; the bandwidth is very large. So where does Mr Sienot base the argument that doing nothing is more expensive than doing something? That's total bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u247	That is certainly not bullshit, because we are already making these costs, the 16 to 49 billion, even though they are difficult to inventory. I also mentioned De Nederlandsche Bank's report for a reason. Those guys aren't financially bad guys. They say very emphatically that the cost of doing nothing is much higher... the exact costs are than dependant on the scenario that will arise... than the cost of operating. We can all look away from it, and apparently the PVV likes to do so, but the facts are that in the Netherlands it has already become 2°C warmer over the last 100 years and that the pouring showers are increasing tremendously. That's what the KNMI says. That predicts that the pouring showers we saw last spring will occur about once every four or five years. The mud flows enter the houses in Limburg. We can all look away, but I don't want to have to explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u248	I see that you have launched a new subject, which, of course, also triggers a reaction. So I would like to give Mr Kops a chance to ask one more question and I would ask him to wait for another debate to discuss this further. The last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u249	Of course, Mr Sienot's last sentence is interesting: he does not want to have to explain it. No, that's obvious! You are not answering any of the questions I am asking. You yourself referred to this report: read it and see how much it amounts to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u250	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u251	The report itself simply states that that is impossible to calculate. He says it costs a lot of money. Then I would like to hear an amount: how much is that then? Because we seem to be paying for that, according to Mr Sienot. Where does the budget say that? What budget line is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u252	I notice that the question is repeated. I suggest we move on to the next speaker. Mr. Sienot, you may respond, but it's the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u253	Very briefly. Mr Kops himself said that it was 16 to 49 billion. So costs have indeed been calculated, to a large extent. That's how it goes. But costs have been calculated. I also referred to the report by De Nederlandsche Bank. That's what I did last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u254	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party. Mr Sienot and Mr Kops are still talking in the Chamber, but I would also like to pay particular attention to Mr Moorlag, who is already ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u255	I was almost ready to chant here "Jerry, Jerry, Jerry," but the dispute between Mr Kops and Mr Sienot seems to be resolved. Mr. Chairman. The ODE, the Sustainable Energy Storage Act, cannot continue in the long term. It is simply clear that the support is narrowing, it is a complicated law, the burden sharing is unfair, the energy bill is not transparent and understandable. My motto is: better running through the fire than crawling through the fire. It is a good thing that the Minister is conducting an investigation, but I think that we as a Chamber should give direction to an alternative. That's why I'm filing this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the number of households hitting the ODE is falling and going down further;]] [[Whereas the tax base is increasingly narrowed, the continuity of the ODE system is affected and the ODE is not sustainable in the longer term;]] [[Whereas the ODE is a form of CO pricing which leads to a disproportionate impact on households compared to companies;]] [[calls on the government to explore alternatives to the ODE, with starting points: fair burden-sharing, the polluter pays principle, continuity, transparency and comprehensibility,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35004-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u256	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party has a great deal of difficulty with the fact that the proceeds of the ODE are being used more and more widely and, in particular, the funding of CO storage is being looked at. The debate on nuclear energy has been stirred up by the VVD, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas nuclear energy is not a renewable energy source;]] [[calls on the Government not to use collective means to promote nuclear energy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35004-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u257	In last week's debate, I asked the Minister whether he would like to ask in Brussels whether the European Commission could see nuclear energy as a form of renewable energy. How am I supposed to read the motion of the PvdA in that light? Moreover, the Minister has said that I now remember that he wants this to come back to the debate on nuclear energy. So perhaps Mr Moorlag is a little early with his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u258	I do not need Brussels to be able to judge nuclear power. Nuclear power is dangerous. The risk of an incident may be small, its consequences are unacceptable. The storage of the waste is a great problem. It is not for nothing that the Germans have chosen an Atomausstieg. In salt mines, 6 billion must be invested to prevent nuclear waste from being affected by water. Just don't start! In a country like the Netherlands: don't start!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u259	Thank you. You don't think so. Mrs. Mulder, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u260	Then the PvdA already excludes nuclear energy in advance, while the CO-poor source could well have a future. I'm sorry about that. I regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u261	Thank you. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u262	It may be regrettable. I do not regret that. I think you should just take a clear stance. The benefits of nuclear energy are indeed that no CO is produced, but in a densely populated country like the Netherlands you should not take risks. Even in a highly developed country like Japan, things have gone wrong. In a densely populated country like the Netherlands, you should not take that risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u263	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. Then I give the floor to Mrs Mulder of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u264	Mr. Chairman. I regret that the PvdA has already ruled that out, because even in Japan they have continued to do so. That may also be said here. It could help us in the overall energy mix. Anyway, that's up to the PvdA. Mr. Chairman. I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas storage of renewable energy accounts for expenditure under the SDE+ scheme;]] [[Whereas the SDE+ scheme is extended to encourage other techniques to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in addition to the promotion of renewable energy, thereby making the scheme more accessible to businesses;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the exploration for the distribution of the financing of the SDE+ announced in the government's press release of the Climate Agreement can be broadly involved in the legislative amendment on the broadening of the SDE+,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35004-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u265	Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and for the commitment of two letters. That's a letter with a few more answers, some more specialist answers, maybe about the 50/50 distribution and how we can control it. We've been given a commitment to that. And we also received a commitment on a letter on the renewable energy budget reserve. That was a commitment that renewable energy would also be used, and not on that other point. I therefore hope that this letter can come in time for the debate on 29 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u266	Thank you. Ms Yeşilgöz-Zegerius waived her second term. Then I will suspend the sitting for a single moment, so that the Minister has all the motions at his disposal. I think that's useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u267	I see the Minister is ready to give his appreciation of the motions that have been tabled. And another question was asked by Mr Van der Lee. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u268	Mr. Chairman. I thought there were a few more questions. There's also a statement that I have to refute. Mr Van der Lee said: there are all kinds of taxes, taxes and so on; how do you know what a CO tax is, how do you distinguish it? It goes in twos. We want to guard the playing field. The PwC study is a leading piece. This means that we would be able to determine the level of total levies in any industry. And then we're gonna try to make the CO relevance as much as possible. After all, there are all kinds of charges that actually do nothing on CO. The energy tax also charges CO-neutral energy. VAT taxes added value, but this is not so necessary in the case of CO. If you know the height, you can then create the composition in such a way that there is most CO content in it. You wish. So I'm gonna try. That's how I see it. Then there is Mrs Beckerman's argument that the account is increasing but that there is no compensation yet. Well, of course it is, because there is an important backlock in income tax. Mr Sienot once again asks me if I want to pick it up quickly. The climate agreement, of course, includes neighborhood suits. But it's not like we know exactly what you're gonna do for each house. So the quick picking up will be that we are going to practice with those districts of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and from there more and more fill the catalogue with the ideas. We're also going to campaign, we're going to do it in all kinds of ways. But it's not like that whole package is ready for every type of home. So it's a little less rosy than what he reports. I also think that monitoring at district level is going too far for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and that this is beyond its scope. That's exactly what we need to keep with the municipalities. Mrs Mulder says: can we get another letter on the budget reserve? No, I think it is important, given the concern she has, to take account of the budgetary reserve in the statements on how to deal with the ODE and the broadening of the SDE. But that's not something you can send a separate letter about right now. It should be involved in the consideration. Mrs Mulder pointed out that it used to be picked up somewhere else. It considers that the budget reserve should be spent in accordance with how it was collected in the past and not on how it will be collected in the future. This means that you have to involve it in the broadening and study of the ODE, but you do not have to draw up a separate letter on this right now. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. 10 calls on the government to partially transfer the proceeds of the ODE to the ISDE scheme. That's already true, because the ISDE is a form of SDE. That's where she's gonna end up. It is also requested to open this scheme to energy-saving measures. That is something I would like to think about in the context of broadening. This hasn't been said yet. It depends on the study. So I can only be lenient about this if the motion were to be held. Because I am not prepared to anticipate an investigation now and the statements I may wish to make about it. But if Mrs. Beckerman wishes to continue the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u269	I'm gonna go check on Mrs. Beckerman and see if she'll take her motion. She doesn't know that yet. Minister, what's your verdict if she doesn't hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u270	Then I'll have to discourage the motion, or else I'll get ahead of myself. Then there is a motion by Mrs Beckerman, Mr Moorlag, Mr Van der Lee and Mrs Akerboom on point No. 11. It calls on the government to evaluate the situation. Actually, I've already answered that. I'm not willing to evaluate the ODE separately as if it were a grant. I said that the evaluation concerns the SDE. We have just discussed in detail the study on the broadening and design of the ODE. So the exploration of the future financing of the widened SDE, which is also the ODE, I do, but that is not exactly what this motion is asking me to do. I'm being asked for an evaluation, and that's something else. So I have to discourage the motion in this form. The motion in part No. I also advise 12 of Mr Kops. In the motion in part No. 13 by Mr Moorlag and Mrs Beckerman to explore the alternatives, the starting points being... et cetera, et cetera. If that is compatible with that exploration of the future financing of the widened SDE, then I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. If Mr Moorlag means it much larger and wider, I may not be able to do so. But I can tell by his body language that maybe we're talking about the same thing. Then I'll leave this motion to the House's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u271	Let me take a look at Mr Moorlag. He nods yes. So in the same interpretation, the motion can get judgment Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u272	Yes. Then the motion to part No. 14 which states "requests the government" et cetera. Not only do I not think that I should abandon any option. However, I do not think that I should abandon any instrument in relation to these options either. So I don't want to support this statement. I would like to give future leaders every opportunity to apply any instrument to any energy supplier. So I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 15 states: "calls on the government to be able to involve (...) in the legislative amendment'. Yes, I would like to give a judgment Chamber on that, but if it were not possible at all at the same time and if the exploration of the ODE, for example, would come later than the broadening, we would then introduce it later. I cannot entirely guarantee that the parallel is exactly there, but in spirit I would like to interpret the motion in this way and give Chamber judgment under that condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u273	I would like to ask Mrs Mulder whether she can agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u274	Yes, but I expect the Minister to make every effort to ensure that things are mutually reinforcing and that you can discuss them at the same time. Otherwise you will have to repair afterwards and that is obviously a bit unhappy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u275	Repairing afterwards would certainly not be my preference, but I would like to take a swing at the arm. Because sometimes there are more things where you dive in and they turn out to be more complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u276	At least we agree on the interpretation and with that the motion gets 'judgement chamber'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u277	Yes, and I'm through with the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u278	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-22.u279	Vote on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. I thank the Minister. I thank the MPs and the viewers at home.
