ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the continuation of the first term of office of the policy debate on the state of the rule of law. I have welcomed both ministers before. I give the floor to Mrs Van Bijsterveld. If you leave the Chamber, please do so as quietly as possible, I will tell the Members. Mrs Van Bijsterveld, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group is putting the citizen at the heart of this debate. For too long, too little attention has been paid to this. The CDA Group sees the beginning of a positive turn of events. But there's still a lot to do. Invasive contributions from science, advisory bodies such as the WRR and High Colleges as the Ombudsman confirm this. Nor can we ignore the cries of heart from the world of the professions themselves. The common thread in my contribution can be summarized in three points. 1. The system and logic of the government are often too central instead of focusing on the citizen and the functioning of the law in practice. 2. Too often, we see a "shocked" approach to supporting institutions in the rule of law rather than a coherent approach between them. 3. Considerations of cost savings and efficiency in shaping the infrastructure of the rule of law are often leading instead of the importance of the rule of law and the contribution to solving citizens' problems. Mr. Chairman. This may sound abstract, but I will explain these points. My group also sees a movement in the right direction in the coalition agreement on these parts. This debate is also about the willingness and commitment of the rulers to bring about a real change in the right direction. Why? The rule of law is a great achievement, but not a quiet possession, as Herman Tjeenk Willink and our former colleague Willem Witteveen have stressed; there is a constant need for maintenance and recalibratement. The confidence of citizens in the government and its institutions can only be maintained in the long term if these institutions also deliver. The Minister of Justice and Security himself expressed this before he was minister in his Rafels to the rule of law, saying: "Whoever feels that he has long failed to benefit from the progress of society will distrust that same society and its institutions." In my group's view, this means procedural fair play. By this I mean: accessibility, accessibility, fair process positions, smooth lead times and responsiveness. In terms of content, it means fair outcomes, adequate standards and effective and proportionate enforcement. Mr. Chairman. My group has a number of proposals for this. I'll handle it on the basis of the aforementioned red thread. I take the first two points together: the functioning of the law in practice and the focus on the coherence between institutions, and all this for the benefit of the citizen. Three major reorganisation projects have been carried out in recent years: the introduction of national police forces, the revision of the judicial card and the KEI project on digitisation and simplification of justice. There's a lot of time, energy and money in there. The big question is, what for? The KEI project has become a failure. The recent evaluation shows that the objectives of the revision of the judicial card have not been met. The problems of reorganising the police have been in the news. In the end, we do not know what the reorganisation has resulted in, because the evaluation has been fatally criticised. See, among other things, Terpstra's analyses in the NJB and van Fijnaut. Are the efforts of the mega-operation of the new Code of Criminal Procedure proportionate to its real yield? How does the Minister intend to ensure this? Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, litigation in civil cases takes a long, unbearable time sometimes. See among other things the comments of the Oppositelichtgroep and van Groenewald in the Dutch Juristenblad. In addition, litigation for large groups of individuals has become unattainable. The Registry fees are too high. We hear that claims from €500 are practically irrecoverable for SMEs. Of course, that's disastrous. It undermines trust in the rule of law. We want to avoid the risk of self-direction, don't we? What does the Minister intend to do about this? A point of discussion is also always the subsidised legal aid and the cuts on it. There's gonna be a new system. How does the Minister look at the influx of cases into the social attorney's office? At the time, the social lawyer was separated from the ordinary commercial offices. Does the Minister see a role for these commercial offices in the social sector in fact or financially? Mr. Chairman. The self-employed, well-functioning canton courts, accessible facilities close to the citizen with a smooth handling of cases, housing in the courts and outside locations have been abolished. Just where seats have been removed, the number of absentee judgments has risen sharply. Now all kinds of pilots have been or are being deported, such as the District Justice or the Justice of the Peace. How does the Minister intend to ensure that these latter judges are once again geographically and in terms of accessibility close to the citizen, with the same guarantees of an independent and impartial judge? In the meantime, private initiatives such as e-Court have also emerged. To what extent should we, as a society, accept that a dispute-solving decision is no longer a human being? Can we leave dispute resolution to an algorithm or is it essentially a human activity? I'd like a response from the Minister. In the area of criminal law, we see a similar focus on the system and its logic and not on the meaning of the citizen and its functioning in practice. There is certainly something to be said for increasing penalty ceilings and changing the system of conditional release. But in dealing with crime, these changes have only relative and indirect significance. As far as the real impact is concerned, clarity on an enforcement ambition that goes hand in hand with an enforcement capability is important. It's been neglected for a long time. Little confidence in detection and prosecution, and hence a low willingness to report, a major breakdown in the chain, and even the lack of a clear picture of the functioning and progress of the criminal justice chain, are real. We must not want declarations to be made mainly from an insurance point of view, without the real expectation that the police will be able to deal with them. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Initiatives such as the establishment of an administrative chain consultation support my group wholeheartedly. We are happy to receive the results of this. Is the Minister prepared to work to ensure that they actually lead to improvements in practice? Mr. Chairman. We must start at the beginning of the chain. That also means, in my group's view, that the NFI, the Dutch Forensic Institute, must be fully equipped to carry out its tasks. Because when the NFI can't deliver in time, the whole process stops, with even the risk that persecution or conviction is completely absent. The messages say that the NFI is unable to perform the tasks and is therefore unable to perform them smoothly. The importance of forensic-technical evidence in criminal matters is and is increasing. The use of new legal possibilities, such as DNA related research, makes an additional appeal to the NFI. My group considers it necessary, in the footsteps of Fijnaut, to ensure that the budget of the NFI continues to grow along with the expected task exercise. Furthermore, the investigation should not be outsourced to external, private parties. This is a public function, in which feedback to the police must also be adequately ensured. Is the Minister prepared to assure this? Is the Minister willing to reserve extra money for the NFI? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna join the police. The formation of the national police is a fact. However, problems manifest because of the complexity of the organization with essentially five layers. This means unnecessary coordination costs and bureaucracy creation. The available manpower and expertise can also often not be used effectively. Sometimes too many levels are involved in the search. Another problem that we hear from experts is that it is unfortunate that the judicial card after the review does not fit in with the organisation of the police. That means there's sometimes a mismatch between the organization of the D.A. and the police. This is detrimental to being able to go blind on each other, and that makes it difficult to pass on information and feedback to the police. Even if a mode is found here and there in practice, it does not work well across the board. Is the Minister prepared to take a good look at this? Mr. Chairman. I already talked about the unusable evaluation of the Police Act 2012. Of course, that can't be the last word. We support Fijnaut's constructive suggestion, which proposes an alternative evaluation, from the point of view of those involved. It should result in an analysis of what has been done, what has been achieved, what can be done with the Police Act and what bottlenecks remain. With such a document in hand, the cabinet, and also the police themselves of course, can look to the future. Is the Minister prepared to promote this? Mr. Chairman. I now come to the border between criminal law and administrative law and the choice and design of the sanctioning system in the event of a breach of law. In 2015, the Council of State advised on the grounds of choice for one or the other system, the absolute and relative gravity of the sanctions, their cumulation and legal protection. It is clear that over time things have become skewed. Last Tuesday we received the cabinet response to this recommendation. My group is looking forward to discussing this with the Minister responsible at another time. With interest, my group awaits the announced undermining law. In doing so, my group supports the administrative approach to serious crime. In order not to put the administration in an improper position, it must be possible to rely on well-functioning criminal investigation and well-functioning tax investigation services. Is this also the Minister's approach? As far as the rule of law is concerned, my group particularly refers to the WRR report 'Knowing is not yet done' and to similar views of the National Ombudsman mentioned earlier in this debate. These show that the public is expected to have too much "performance" from the government. Small problems can sometimes have big consequences. Public authorities are sometimes inaccessible partly because of breeding and computerisation. How is the Minister going to involve these insights in the design of new legislation and how does the Minister's responsibility for full legislative quality include his fellow ministers? What does the Minister do with these new insights into existing legislation? Mr. Chairman. I'm going to go into digitalization a little more specifically. The President of the WRR, Ms Prins, raised the relationship between digitalisation and the rule of law in the First Chamber during the expert meeting. She mentioned developments such as improper use or misuse of data in the hands of monopolists, digital micro-targeting of citizens in relation to the culture of the rule of law, police detection through the so-called darkweb and the lead of the executive in data analysis on legislative and judicial power. What is the government's view of the consequences of digitalising society on trias politicians and the rule of law in the broad sense? In my group's view, such a vision is urgently needed. I mentioned earlier the debacle of KEI. Euphemistically, a "reset" is spoken of, as if everything is solved at the push of a button. There are many similarities with the ICT problems that arise in the Tax Administration. Culture change and good governance are crucial. It is striking that the Minister proposes to seek solutions within his own case, namely the case of the Ministry of Justice and Security in dialogue with the Judicial Council. Would it not be worth considering, as with the Tax Administration, having external experts write an independent opinion on this matter? I come to the third point. That is the issue of cost savings in relation to the rule of law and the position of the citizen. There is, of course, no objection in itself to cost savings and the desire to achieve efficiency. In fact, it's okay. It only becomes different when these factors become the dominant frame of thought and at the expense of basic functions. It is widely recognised that this is the case in the area of justice. In my group's view, first of all, the cuts imposed in recent years on the judiciary should be reversed as soon as possible. That's a priority. Moreover, my group is not in favour of a separate, non-departmental budget of justice. My group also believes that the system of financing the judiciary should be reviewed. In our view, this should not depend solely on the number of cases being delivered, on the amount of output financing: that is how the judiciary is getting stuck. There are fewer cases, including the increase in registry fees, which also reduces revenue, so that fewer judges can also be appointed. Judges are encouraged to settle, but they do not produce much in terms of financially viable output. In the project Spacious job for meaningful probation, the step to other type of funding has been taken. Will the Minister also consider this for the judiciary and the prosecution? In the documentation we received from the so-called Counter-Lighting Group, it is called: 20 minutes before the treatment of the removal of a child is no exception. Actual control of directors is desirable, but not possible. A little less than half an hour for a serious assault, which also requires attention for the victim, is really too little. It also happens that, in the absence of space at a multiple hearing, criminal proceedings are planned on a single basis where multiple cases were more appropriate. And then things are often too old and the effect of punishment is gone. Nevertheless, the number of vacancies is high. That has been said before in the debate. In any case, in the opinion of our group lawyers could be more often involved as judges or deputy counsellors: that is a practical and good solution, especially at this time of far-reaching specialisation. However, my group would point out that the role of the legal profession must also be considered critically. False and hopeless cases shouldn't be hiring lawyers. See also the aforementioned article by Groenewald in the NJB. In the sphere of criminal law, the success of the OM cases is rapidly on the contrary. This phenomenon, introduced in order to give more air to the criminal justice system and to make cuts, leads increasingly to penalties being imposed without the intervention of a judge and, of course, against the sentence of the accused. This is a loom error in the system. Does the Minister consider this to be the case and is he prepared to reconsider it? Research has been carried out to show that OM action regularly leads to unjustified punishments. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. My group welcomes the intentions in the government agreement that concern the rule of law itself, both in terms of legislation and in terms of practical ambitions. But before a flight is made forward, it is also necessary to have the base in order. And formulating practical ambitions is much easier than actually achieving them. The importance of the rule of law requires real implementation. That is why my group proposes the development of a multi-annual investment programme for the maintenance of the rule of law along the lines outlined above. We look forward to the reaction of the rulers to these proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mrs Van Bijsterveld. I give the floor to Mr Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u4	President. "Separation, it sounds almost idyllic and peaceful. But there's blood on the concept. The triathlete was not revealed to our forefathers, but conquered by them on princes and tyrants, who had all the state power personally in their hands. The separation of powers has been forced by force over time and is not based on considerations of efficiency. The triad has been fought to curb the exercise of state power with law and law in order to protect the citizen from the undue and unlawful exercise of power of the state and of other citizens." This quote comes from the article by our esteemed former colleague Klaas de Vries, entitled De Brave Judge, are there still judges in The Hague? Because I want to talk today in the debate on the state of the rule of law in particular about the trias politicians and the position of the judiciary within the trias politicians at the present time, I thought it would be useful to begin with this quote by Klaas de Vries. What's the status of the judiciary? In his recent article on the "governance" of the judiciary and the failure of the Quality and Innovation project, better known as KEI, Herman Tjeenk Willink states that it is high time to clarify the content of the judicial function as a common benchmark for judges, directors and politicians. According to Tjeenk Willink, the discussion about the content of the judiciary must be conducted and fed from the judiciary. The judges are the professionals. The judiciary is the independent "third power." It is not in my capacity to give that development here today in brief the attention it deserves. However, I would like to make an attempt to put some emphasis on the period of the last fifteen years, i.e. from the revision of the Law on the Judicial Organisation, the Law RO in 2002 to the present day. In my opinion, a number of developments can be observed during this period, which can shed some light on the change and degeneration of the third state power, the judiciary. I will briefly consider the history and content of the legislative amendment of the RO Act in 2002, the 2012 Judicial Card Review Act known as Wet HGK, the 2014 Visitation Court Report of the Committee-Cohen, the 2017 Review of the HGK Act by the Kummeling Committee, the KEI Act, more precisely the 2016 KEI Act and not to mention two remarkable initiatives from the judiciary, the 2013 Leeuwarder Manifesto and the 2015 Counter-Light Survey. In these developments, I will deal in particular with its implications for the judiciary and conclude with an assessment of the current position of the judiciary within the trias. I think it would be logical to start with the principle of state law, the democratic rule of law. Our democratic rule of law is based on the trias politicians, often referred to as the separation of powers. However, the essence of the triad is not an organisational separation of functions, but a counterweight from the fact of experience that "every power separately threatens to become an absolute power, including the power of the democratic majority." That is why it is better to talk about being reshaped over and over again. This includes the realization that for the exercise of their functions the powers depend on each other. Finding a balance within the triad over and over again is only possible by keeping sharp in mind that collusion implies contradiction and that balance is irresistible without counterweight. Each power should be the counterweight to the other powers. Two decades ago, the Supreme Court stated that the term "trias politicians" is only the short indication of a complex system of checks-and-balances within a partnership. Such a system of restraint presupposes that the three state powers are, in principle, equivalent. That doesn't rule out control on its own. The executive is under the control of the parliament through the ministerial responsibility and, within the legislative power, ideally elected representatives and executives keep each other in check. The system thus rests on consideration by the Supreme Court, on the search for the right balance between the three powers. That balance must be restored to every era. These considerations are, I assume, well known to everyone, even if only because four years ago, following the first debate on the State of the rule of law, Brenninkmeijer in this place told us that in a system of strong democratic rule of law checks-and-balances, forces and counter forces are present and do their work, and that means that democracy and the rule of law depend fundamentally on each other. But he also noted that in his opinion there was system failure. In his view, this failure meant that our democratic constitutional system would show too much unity and leave too little room for a vote against. Against this background, I would like to see whether, in the current state of affairs, the power of law in our country vis-à-vis the legislator and the administration is sufficiently important. In other words, whether there is still a balance between the three powers and whether the judiciary can still constitute the necessary counterweight to legislator and administration. I note that, in recent years, many sides have argued that the balance of powers has been disrupted because the judiciary cannot provide sufficient counterweight to the administration. For this purpose, the term "government of the judiciary" is generally used. The administration of the judiciary is seen, in other words, as an expression of insufficient counterweight on the part of the judiciary towards politics and administration, which are increasingly closely tied and impose their rationality on the courts. If we now try to identify the causes of this imbalance within the triad, we can see that the developments of about 20 years ago have contributed significantly to this. It started with the new Law RO of 2002, which said goodbye to the old dual administrative structure in the courts. In that old structure, the peer court meeting of judges chaired by the President of the Court determined the organisation of the court. While the administration of the court was a task of the Minister of Justice. The new structure of 2002 has three levels of administration: the courts, the judicial board and the minister. In this structure, there is an integral management system other than that of the dual structure. The judicial board, consisting of the President, the Managing Director and the sectoral chairmen, was entrusted with the general management, organisation and management of the court. This also meant, inter alia, that the time spent on dealing with cases in plenary session could be regarded as a matter of business management. Furthermore, the judicial board is responsible for planning and funding and the board makes the recommendation for judges' appointments. In 2012, the legislator, and thus this Chamber, in the context of the HGK Act, decided to change the composition of the board again. The legislator proceeded to limit the administration of justice to three members. On a proposal from the Court of Justice, the permanent structure with sectors and sectoral chairs, which could bring the interests of the workplace into the administration, was abolished. This meant, on balance, that the court's position in the organisation changed considerably and deteriorated. The old powers of the judges at the peer court meetings had already been transferred to the board in 2002 and only an advisory role remained before the court meeting. And the introduction of the HGK Act and the abolition of the sector model greatly restricted the local input of the judges. It is therefore not surprising that the 2013 Leeuwarder Manifesto notes that the Justice Council unilaterally decides who will be the director. The second layer of administration concerns the Court of Justice. The Council shall consist of four members, two of whom shall come from the judiciary and two non-judicial members, who shall be officials of a ministry. The Council is supported by an extensive administrative apparatus. Among other things, it is responsible for establishing the budget for the judiciary and allocating the budgets to the courts. The Council also makes the recommendation for the appointment of members of the judicial board, while the Council also has great control over the selection of directors. At the top of the administrative organisation of the judiciary is the Minister of Justice. The RO Act confers wide powers on the Minister in the field of the administration of the courts. An important authority of the Minister concerns the financing, for which he avails himself of the Financing Decision case-law. This makes it possible to determine, on the basis of the performance of a court, how many judges are required. In practice, this system of performance-oriented funding leads to a strong business approach to the work of the courts. The Minister also has a number of powers of appointment. He shall appoint the members of the Board and the members of the Boards of Appeal. In 2002, the government further stated that the new law would allow the minister to be more distant from the judiciary and that the council would be a buffer between the minister and the courts. In practice, however, the opposite appears to be the case. The new governance structure is characterised by hierarchical relations of authority. So the structure is very top-down. At the very bottom of this structure, the judges figure under the general direction of the judicial board. It is therefore not surprising that the Leeuwarden manifesto was very critical about this. This criticism in Leeuwarden's Manifesto was in line with the outcome of the first evaluation of the new governance structure of 2006. This already showed that judges are concerned about the fact that legal decisions depended not primarily on substantive considerations but on production pressure. As regards the current situation in the trias politician, Klaas de Vries points out in that article that the judiciary, which is conditioned to wait for what is presented to it, has turned much more inward in relation to the legislative and executive powers. In addition, according to De Vries, there is a coalition between the legislative and executive powers, which, on the basis of a majority in elections, joins forces. The coalition knows what it wants and has powerful instruments to pursue its will. One of them is the budget law, which also determines the area of the judiciary. De Vries adds a warning: "Judges do not realise enough that their domain must be defended against landjeck by the other state powers." Furthermore, it is good to note that De Vries here appeals to the judiciary's own powers and responsibilities for maintaining or regaining its independence and that Tjeenk Willink has also pointed out several times in the same way to the judges that they themselves have not yet provided sufficient substantive counterweight to the legislator and, in particular, to the administration. A similar observation to the opinion of De Vries can be found in the publication of Judge Petra van der Veen from 2016, entitled: Public administration of the judicial organisation, looking for a remedy. Van der Veen recalls that during the reorganisation of 2002 the Hoge Raad kept the old structure, which separates judicial policy and management from each other. As a result, the Supreme Court has not only preserved the collegiate administrative structure, but has also maintained its institutional independence and the Supreme Court has remained outside the reach of the Court of Justice. It is also interesting to note that the Supreme Court gave negative advice on the proposed new structure as early as 1999. The High Council considered that the mere fact that the judiciary is financed from public funds does not justify granting powers to the Minister of Justice in the context of a modernisation operation which enable him to verify whether these funds are being used effectively. The Supreme Court added: "This is all the less so because such powers could be used to indirectly influence the judiciary through the cords of the stock exchange." And that is, as it happens to me, exactly what happened after 2002. In this context, it is also essential to take good note of the sharp debate that the President of and the Attorney General of the Supreme Court held at the 1999 Supreme Court in the run-up to the legislative amendment with the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u5	I noticed that Mr. Ruers had signed up for 30 minutes. I was wondering what he was going to talk about. Now I hear that he has stabbed the spade a bit deeper than some of us, at least than me. Let me speak for myself. I am grateful to him for that, because we have all put our finger on the sore spot, the funding, but Mr Ruers is actually putting him on the structure of justice. You cite many former colleagues and dignitaries, including De Vries. But this is also the position of Mr Ruers and the SP, isn't it? Am I listening to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u6	At the end, I will make it clear what my position is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u7	Then we'll keep this cliffhanger in there for a while. My question follows that, but perhaps you will come to that: is it not possible to solve the problem by means of a financing adjustment or other means of financing? Does the problem arise in an organizational or organizational context?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u8	It's still a bit deeper, because it's about the structural basis, being the law and the role, and what's wrong with it or lacks it. After that, we're gonna have the financial business. Usually it's approached here from the other direction, first from deficits and additions, but I'd rather we go a little deeper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u9	Then I understand you correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u10	Through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u11	Madam President, through you, all through you. Madam President. I'll follow. The High Council strongly and vigorously argued in that debate with the Minister that I can recommend you to read again even though it has been extended, that, firstly, the new structure does not recognise that judicial policy and management within the judicial organisation can be difficult to separate and, secondly, that the minister's supervisory role is contrary to the independence of the judiciary, because the minister, by direct and indirect influence of judicial policy, exceeds the limits which should be respected in a democratic rule of law vis-à-vis the judiciary. Thirdly, the Supreme Court argued that, although the Minister was placed at a great distance in the new system, from then on, through the introduction of integrated management, coupled with a step-by-step supervisory power, this did not prevent his supervisory powers from becoming much greater than before, thereby exceeding the boundary between the separation of powers. These were the three key points of the speech and the long discussion between the High Council and the Minister. Interestingly, the predecessor of the current minister in his letter to the Lower House of 27 September of two years ago, i.e. 2016, regarding the positioning and financing of the case law referred to that discussion in 1999. That's very striking, so many years later. It is striking to see that in 2016 the Minister maintained the position of one of his predecessors in 1999, while it is reasonable to deny that the criticism by the Supreme Court of the then legislative proposals and the risks for the independence of the judiciary predicted by the Supreme Court were confirmed by developments afterwards. I would therefore like to hear from the ministers how they now, twenty years later, judge the objections of the Supreme Court of those days against the RO Act against the backgrounds of developments since 2012 and the current position of the judiciary. I would also like to draw particular attention to the Minister's reply at the end of the debate with the Supreme Court of 7 December 1999 to the Supreme Court. The Minister said: "We have always taken into account the possible tensions that could arise between judicial independence and ministerial responsibility in the preparation of legislation for the new structure. The possibility of this, however small, should be kept to a minimum by means of legal guarantees." Please note: legal guarantees. I would like to follow up on the quote: 'The Council's establishment of justice as a buffer should be seen in that light'. Of course, that's very interesting. I'll be back at Van der Veen. Van der Veen also notes that precisely the absence of the legally guaranteed institutional independence of the judiciary underlines the need and importance of one of the Minister's independent Council for justice and a council which does not operate as an extension of the minister's office, but occupies one of the Minister's independent positions in the system of checks-and-balances. As a solution to the found lack of independence of the judiciary, Van der Veen, referring to the example of the Supreme Court, sees in particular the reduction of certain elements of the dual structure, the strengthening of the function of the President of the Court and the preservation of the Council as a central link for the judicial system. That's what it is. According to Van der Veen, however, such a council should function as it was originally intended, namely as a link between the courts and the minister and not as a body that, as Tjeenk Willink described it, "does the dirty work for the minister." In May 2016 Professor Bovend'Eert published the article entitled What's wrong with the judicial organisation? He noted that in practice the system of performance-oriented funding has led to a strong business approach to the work of the courts and that the field of justice is constantly further restricted by efficiency thinking. He also called for attention to be paid to the fact that the judge could not always fulfil the responsibility he felt for the quality of the hearing, because he was not given sufficient room for manoeuvre. This brings Bovend'Eert to the conclusion that shortcomings in the current administrative structure in the judicial organisation are not merely theoretical-state law but have led to highly undesirable practices in the functioning of the case law. He added: these practices run counter to the principle of judicial independence enshrined in the Constitution, in Article 6 of the ECHR and in the RO Act, in which the courts should also have both procedural and substantive freedom of decision in order to decide disputes. This freedom of decision must be based on adequate safeguards against external pressure. These guarantees are not sufficiently anchored in the current governance structure, says Professor Bovend'Heert. According to Bovend'Eert, a solution to the problem outlined above requires not only a cultural change in the judicial organisation, but also a review of the existing legal regime of the administrative structure. The legislator will have to carry out some repair work, says Bovend'Eert. It is important to put an end to the relations of authority outlined above. In particular, the links between the Minister and the Council of Justice should be cut. The fact that the independence of the judicial system is not particularly good, some have already argued that this is the case and quotes that point to it are also apparent from the complaints made by the judicial workstation. The judges experience that their domain is constantly restricted by dominant efficiency thinking. This already emerged in 2013 from the Leeuwarder manifesto, but even more pregnant in 2015 in the Counter-Light Survey, in which no less than one third of all judges participated. A few passages from the conclusion of the Counter-Lighting Group of June 2016 clearly show where the judges stand: "Good justice costs money and time. As a carpenter needs a level, so the judge needs time; time to meet professional standards. There's no time. During the last visit, the Cohen Committee noted this clearly and firmly." A second passage: "Breaking time increases the risk of errors. If sufficient time and money are not available for good justice, it will affect Lady Justitia's pedestal and threaten to lose solid land. The price for this will, in our opinion, be much higher than the current deficit in the justice budget." A third quote: "The sometimes almost desperate reactions of our colleagues already testify to a struggling judicial organisation. Large reorganisations, such as HGK and KEI, have to cover justice from their own resources. The funding is not calculated on that. Due to the high financial pressure, a one-sided focus on efficiency, scaling and standardisation has emerged." An expert meeting was held in this Chamber on 6 February. Others have referred to it. There, Judge Creutzberg spoke as spokesman on behalf of the Counter-Light Group. It pointed out that the financing of the case-law is under pressure from many sides, inter alia, because from 2010 the system of output financing will no longer be applied in the manner previously agreed and because the minister's household booklet has become leading. But also because the principles of output financing are no longer real. As an example, she pointed out that "and others have mentioned similar examples "that for a judgment in default in a canton case a standard of one minute before the court and eight minutes for legal support applies. You can hardly imagine it, but it's really there. Similar imbalances are also found in the Counter-Light Survey. I'm quoting another one. A judge says: "I experience it that the domain of the judge is constantly further restricted. This is not just about the time required for hearings. It is also about the very limited time for the preparation of the session and the afterwork, so the total time for a case. As an individual judge, we no longer have any influence on that. It is whether to damage your health and work each time in your spare time, or to damage the quality by doing less than necessary. So a dilemma." I'd almost say a judge's heart cry. That's what I call it: a cri de coeur of the judges. This cri de coeur dates from two years ago. In the meantime, we also know the outcome of the evaluation of the HGK of the Kummeling Committee. On this basis, it can be concluded that the original objective of the HGK Act, namely the creation of framework conditions to ensure the quality of the case-law, has not been achieved. Kummeling reports that the people working in the judicial organisation appreciate the law with an insufficient value, and that many see the law mainly as, yes, a austerity operation and a business operation. Furthermore, the Counter-Light Survey shows that more than 90% of judges are deeply concerned about the objective and feasibility of KEI legislation, not unknown in this house. Those concerns were not without land, we know now. We now know KEI's mid-term review. In the Council's letter to the Court of Justice of 10 April last year, it was called euphemistically 'others' who said it was 'KEI is being reset'. And the Minister informs Parliament that KEI's enormous financial damage comes from the judiciary's budget. Count out your loss. The Counter-Light Group also drew up a list of the most pressing issues raised by the judges on the basis of the responses to its survey. One of these is the importance of justice as part of the trias politician. That is a welcome fact in itself, but it does not relieve the judges of the difficult task which rests on the judges themselves. Klaas de Vries told them that it was urgent: judges, keep an eye on your case. I'll come to a conclusion. On the basis of the above, in my opinion, it can only be concluded that the current administrative structure of the judiciary from the perspective of judicial independence "is based on a serious fault in construction," as Bovend'Eert calls it. We would like to hear from the Ministers whether they are prepared, in line with the suggestions I have outlined, to take the necessary measures to restore judicial independence and to remove the imbalance within the triad. We look forward with more than normal interest to the reactions of the ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Ruers. I give the floor to Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u13	Thank you, Madam President. This is not the first debate on the state of the rule of law that is taking place in this house, and it will certainly not be the last debate. The rule of law requires constant maintenance. That has been mentioned several times today. Therefore, it is not an unnecessary luxury to have another debate today which is centred on the rule of law. Many of the concerns that we shared in the debate in March 2014 and which came back, among other things, in the debate on the Justice Budget in the summer of 2016 are still alive. One of these concerns concerns citizens' access to justice and the digitisation of justice. New themes have been added. For example, the increasing intertwinedness between man and machine, also called the augmented human being, and the influence of algorithms on our freedom of information, choices and behavior raises questions about the role of law and the legislator. In this context, issues such as the protection of human dignity are often mentioned. I will not be able to discuss all the issues relating to the state of law. Colleagues have already mentioned this to me when it comes to access to justice and justice. On behalf of my group, too, I will briefly discuss these issues, and I will also look at the progress of the digitisation of justice itself. On the subject of citizens and the rule of law, I will address issues relating to digitalisation, artificial intelligence, the Internet of things and robotisation, and discuss their possible implications for citizens' rights under the rule of law. First of all, the theme of access to justice. Although there are really positive exceptions, proceedings in a public court still take a long time. Citizens sometimes have to wait a long time before the judge invites them to a hearing at all. As you know, Madam President, besides being a member of this Chamber, I am also a lawyer. It was difficult to explain to my client when three months after I subpoenaed his ICT supplier, I received a note informing him that in the third quarter he would receive another note asking for an inability for the fourth quarter. Nice of course the Registry will let you know, but for my client an extra frustration in an already incriminating process for him. My experience is that justice seekers are mostly in need of security. They also want to be right, but security and the ability to close a file is at least as important to them. The judge is for many people their burden resort, the last instance that citizens still have faith in. The judge must have time for them. All this could be the result of the increasing administration of justice and the way in which justice is financed. In March 2014, a motion asked the government not only to steer on quantity, but also to take quality standards as a starting point for decisions on the funding of the judiciary in the Netherlands, quality requirements aimed at independence and legitimacy of justice. What exactly is the status of the implementation of this motion? Would the government care to comment on that? With regard to the independence and legitimacy of the case law, my group is happy to endorse what was exchanged at the VAO on 26 April last in the House of Representatives and the motions that were tabled. It discussed the Council's capacity to decide on the case-law and the desirability of strengthening the Council's powers of administration in the field of justice. The corresponding motion is being voted on today, perhaps at the moment, but whether or not it is being adopted, it is a matter of concern to my group. Does the government agree with the proposers that it is necessary to strengthen the Council's powers of administration in the area of justice? If so, why? How does the independence of the case-law relate to the strengthening of the Council's powers of administration in the field of justice? Or in other words, how can you strengthen administrative power without having consequences for the autonomy of the judges? I'd like a response from the government. What can enhanced administrative power actually mean? For example, the government agreement states that existing courts and courts are not in principle closed. Two questions about that. A: how should the group read the word "in principle"? B: Could the Council take any decisions on the matter before the Court of Justice with greater administrative power? I'd like a response from the Minister. This also applies, of course, to what Mr Ruers has just mentioned about the administration of the case law and the role of the Council in the area of justice. My group is also interested in the Government's response to these issues. When I talk about the long lead times and the organisation of justice, I come to the subject of the progress of the digitisation of justice, the KEI programme, Quality and Innovation. The KEI programme has far from fulfilled the promise of, among other things, faster and more efficient procedures. Instead of the EUR 60 million budget, KEI has cost more than EUR 200 million and does not seem to have achieved 5% of what it should have achieved. Of the planned benefits of EUR 270 million, very little has been achieved. In 2018 KEI should have been ready, but it's probably going to take years before it really is. What's the plan for KEI now? I'd like a response from the government to this question. According to the research firm TRConsult, the delay in time and costs is due, among other things, to the fact that the judicial organisation, and I quote, "has not managed to retain the focus and pressure on the original objective of simplifying primary processes." Other experts indicate that the causes must be found in the absence of the corresponding organisational changes, which should have taken place first. In his letter to the Lower House, the Minister promised a more active role of his ministry. Is that really a solution to the problem? The question that my group does not yet see answered is what is really going to happen differently. What is the real solution that the Minister has in mind to the KEI problem? A more active role is of course fine and perhaps even a bit reassuring, but that will not solve the real problems. What vision is behind this? Would the Minister like to reflect on that? EUR 200 million has already been invested. How many million euros is still needed to do the job? If a small part of the programme is achieved with EUR 200 million, there is little chance that we will be there with a few more million euros. The extra investment that is needed will have to come from somewhere. If my group understands correctly from the judges themselves. Is that realistic, my group wonders? In any case, it will not shorten the lead times. The citizens will not feel heard more quickly and at the same time it is very doubtful whether KEI will be extra EUR 200 million. Is it not much wiser to take a step back first, to find out exactly where it went wrong with KEI and then to take a well-founded decision whether or not to proceed with the KEI programme? Because what makes the minister have the confidence that KEI will succeed? If the base isn't right, you have to stop. It's better halfway back than all the way down. It is not the first time, nor is it unique to the case law that an ICT project fails. I'd like a response from the Minister. Madam President. Another point that puts the judge under pressure as a burden resort is that litigation is still costly, actually only for people who are eligible for subsidised legal aid or the really large companies and institutions that have enough time and money. A large group of people, which we also call the middle class or sandwich class, falls right in between. They may still have the means to sue at first instance, but appeals are often no longer available. In previous debates, we have discussed alternative forms of financing legal aid, other than that of social lawyers or legal aid insurance. At the time, the Minister promised to look into this matter in greater detail. What's come out of this? Has the government carried out research or exploration into alternative forms of legal aid? I am not talking about alternative forms of justice, such as e-Court or the peace court, but rather about other forms of financing legal aid to justice seekers. Is the government prepared to investigate whether there are serious alternatives? Madam President. I come to the subject of the position of citizens in the rule of law. More specifically, I will address the consequences of digital transformation, or digital transformation, on the core values of the rule of law, citizens' freedom and human dignity. The digital transformation, or in plain Dutch the digital transformation, is seen as the next step in digital evolution. The special feature of today's digital transformation lies not so much in faster computers or even better programs, but in the always connected of man and machine to his environment. An environment in which the Internet will disappear from man's consciousness. It's just there, whether we take our smartphone out of our pocket, turn on a device or walk into a space: we're connected to everything and everyone around us, without further thinking about it. The absence of it would be something like not rising from the sun in the morning. In this context, we do speak of "the augmented human being." The convergence of nanotechnology, biotechnology, information technology and cognitive sciences affects not only human rights but also the fundamental concept of what characterises a human being. Borders between man and machine, between online and offline activities, between the physical and the virtual world, between natural and artificial, between reality and virtuality fade as a result of that aforementioned digital transformation. Humanity increases its capabilities by using machines, robots and software. Then we arrive at that augmented human being. How does the government prepare for such developments? Last year, the Council of Europe adopted a resolution recommending that every machine, every robot or artificial intelligence artifact should remain under human control and that any power or power they receive should be revoked at any time. The Council also recommended that directives be drawn up to strengthen transparency, to investigate further regulation and to introduce the so-called operators' accountability so that the creators, owners and managers of these systems can never hide behind independent decision-making by these systems themselves. Furthermore, the design and use of persuasion software, ICT and algorithms must always fully respect the dignity and rights of all users. What does the government think of these recommendations? Does the government intend to pursue these recommendations, for example in the JHA Council or in the context of the United Nations? How does the government prepare for such developments? Madam President. Last week, a hearing took place in the U.S. Senate with Mark Zuckerberg about the role of Facebook, which had provided companies like Cambridge Analytics with data and profiles from Facebook users. Cambridge Analytics is now bankrupt, but with its consequences we have to deal. Ex-workers of Facebook call it the eponymous platform "a cesspool of disinformation and propaganda." Antonio Garcia Martinez, who was at the cradle of targeted advertising and who is the author of the book Start-upmania, literally said in an interview that they didn't realize the political consequences. There are strong indications that Facebook could be abused for improper influence on the Brexitrefendum and the American elections. Abuse of data and manipulation of data can thus put the axe at the roots of our rule of law. What answer do we have to that? What does the government think about this? These issues should also include the polarising effect of social media in the social debate. The fact that we can or cannot see some information is more and more due to our online search behaviour, age or gender. However, democracy and the rule of law must have equal opportunities for information, including access to it. Now that social media has become such a self-evident part of our daily life, the question is whether go with the flow and laissez-faire, laissez-passer is still sufficient. Digital transformation is made possible by only a handful of companies, which are also outside Europe. It is companies like Microsoft, Apple, Google and Amazon that enable the integration of people, machine and environment. It is also these companies that benefit from a certain clicking behavior. If we add the observation that negative news produces more clicks than positive news and therefore more revenue, then it is appropriate to ask whether we should not even have a proper discussion about the desirability of these developments and whether any adjustment is necessary. Redirecting towards the possible standardisation of digital transformation, so that the protection of the core values of our rule of law is maintained, freedom and equal opportunities for all and the protection of human dignity. Redirection also towards competition law. How do we ensure sufficient competition so that free and fair competition can be achieved? How do we ensure that European players also participate and participate in this free competition, so that we do not become dependent on this handful of non-European tech companies? The Netherlands can do this, Europe cannot do this alone. This will require action at international level. How does the government assess these issues? Now the European Commission has taken initiatives to counter the so-called fake news. However, issues such as the impact of algorithms on behaviour, choices and the freedom of citizens are not addressed yet. Could hatred and political disinformation not be minimized by forcing the transparency of algorithms? How does the government view this? How is it preparing to respond to such questions and how does the government view the issue of the standardization of digital transformation? Madam President. It is quite difficult for the legislator to adapt to, and keep pace with, the speed with which science and technology develop. Assuming that human dignity as a fundamental core value of the rule of law needs protection, what is needed? Isn't it time we started thinking about how to protect human dignity in the introduction and application of new technologies? How do we ensure that people are actually free in the choice of information they take, in their behaviour and in the way they want to develop? How do we ensure that the rule of law remains stable in the future? History teaches that people and businesses, countries and civilizations survive if they have sufficient ability to adapt to changing circumstances. In order to maintain the rule of law in the changing technological and social conditions, in the digital transformation, we need to start looking at the existing governance of our rule of law, including the legislative mechanisms, in time and wondering whether they can survive the digital transformation. If necessary, we must be prepared to adapt it to preserve our rule of law. Only passers-by survive. Madam President, finally. I'll summarize and round up. In the short term, access to justice really burns. The cost of the proposed solution, KEI, is in danger of getting out of hand and it is very doubtful whether what KEI intended ultimately will be realised: modernisation of justice, greater efficiency and shorter lead times. How's the government gonna put this fire out? When and how are court-seekers going to find that access to justice improves? And how does the independence and legitimacy of justice stand? In the longer term, the digital transformation outlined presents new challenges to the rule of law. What role does the government see for itself as a guardian of the rule of law? My group is curious about the government's vision and answers to these issues and challenges and looks forward to them with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u14	Thank you. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the debate and the sitting for a break.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u15	The next item is the continuation of the policy debate on the state of the rule of law. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the First Chamber, a vital democratic rule of law is carried by ordinary people. People who aren't very rich and not very poor. People who are self-conscious and who are able and willing to stand up for their own freedom and for the freedom of the collective. People who know that the democratic rule of law is under their feet. Solid ground. A solid foundation on which you can build. I paraphrase your deeply regretful former colleague Willem Witteveen. Four years ago he was a driving force behind the first debate on the state of the rule of law, and shortly afterwards he wrote an article explaining his thoughts. In that article, he expressed the wish that the debate on the rule of law would be conducted not only here, in the First Chamber, but widely throughout society. Willem Witteveen's wish is mine, too. With everything I say here today, I keep in mind that large group of ordinary people, the large group that must carry the democratic rule of law. Today we are debating the rule of law, and it is no coincidence that a new biography of the founder of modern Dutch democracy, Thorbecke, is being presented. It was also Thorbecke who once called inequality and the resulting poverty the greatest threat to social cohesion. He and his successors in cabinet and parliament have managed to avert that danger. They have succeeded in anchoring equality deeply: in our society, in our government, in our economy and in our companies. This is a major achievement and, in my opinion, an important condition for the success of our rule of law. Madam President. That rule of law is what binds us people. The rule of law provides the framework within which the individual relates to society. At the same time, it is the framework that defines the relationship between the citizen and the State. Rights and duties and the balance between them, the fundamental rights of the individual, where they are limited by the rights of the other: that is what the rule of law is about, and that affects every citizen, every second of his life. Thorbecke said: 'So we say that there is human rights, so we say that he is connected with what is outside him.' Those words by the Liberal Thorbecke are also taken right from the Christian Democratic heart. Man is not an island. Happiness that's my personal conviction... finds one man in association with the other. Laws and rules facilitate dealing with the other. In that view, justice even paves the way for happiness. The Netherlands is always high on the lists of the countries with the happiest inhabitants, and that is partly because the rule of law is so firmly anchored in this country. Rights and obligations of citizens and organisations are laid down in democratically established rules. Rights and duties, because the strength of our rule of law lies in the fact that we have a duty to contribute to society and to assume our responsibility. In addition, social fundamental rights are deeply embedded in the Netherlands, and the government itself is bound by rules and accessible to them. On the basis of those rules, disputes shall be settled by an independent body. The different organs of power control each other and keep each other in balance. Fundamental rights, legal certainty and equality are the foundation of our society. Our core values. The whole world knows that and knows how to find our country. To find a safe place for injustice in their own country, for example, but also to do good business. The core values of the rule of law, as I have just described, are therefore the foundation of our society, the Dutch and the European. The EU and its membership presupposes that all Member States respect democratic principles, human rights and minority rights. In order to do so, for example, access to an independent court must be assured. In Europe, we see differing views on the interpretation of constitutional core values. At European and national level, however, we must continue to talk about how we can jointly implement these core values, and how we can then stick to each other. This cabinet is making an effort in Europe: first of all, the Foreign Minister, of course, but I certainly think that the implementation of the rule of law is also a matter for the Justice and Home Affairs European Council. In the Netherlands, the foundation of the rule of law is firmly established. Confidence in the rule of law is high, crime is falling, and yet there are reasons for concern. For example, the development of the sense of security is not keeping pace with the positive developments in crime and justice. I spoke at the beginning about the importance of involving citizens, but what role does the lack of involvement in the rule of law play in the perception of the same rule of law? Because despite statistics that indicate that crime is falling, many people are concerned about society, about the social context, about our values and about the extent to which they are still being shared.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u17	I understand that the Minister is reciting the piece that was crafted in advance, but there is something to be said about these falling crime rates. As I mentioned earlier in this debate, Mr Akerboom has said something about this, and in the run-up to the formation of this cabinet, a report has been published showing that the CBS sees only a small part of all crime at all. If the Minister is talking about falling crime rates, I would like it to be clear what he means, namely what we are still registering.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u18	I will deal with this point in detail in a moment when I answer the questions raised by Mr Dercksen in his first term. I therefore propose, Madam President, that I do so in a moment, as I intend to do, and that I now proceed with the text I have produced. In fact, I had just stayed on a point that Mr Dercksen would have to address somewhat. I said that, despite the statistics that indicate that crime is falling, many people have concerns about society, about the social context, about our values and to what extent they are still being shared. I see here a relationship with the nature and level of organization of the most pronounced forms of crime today. This is the undermining crime that I will be discussing later in the context of answering some of the questions. We will then talk about the blurring of standards and the boundaries between the upper world and the underworld. About the threat to the integrity of public administration and also literally, in some cases, about the threat to public administrators. About the creeping incorporation of corruption into certain parts of local society and social sectors. It is a form of crime that literally, as the name says, threatens to undermine everything in society. If we no longer recognise and recognise this as such, we will indeed have fewer and fewer declarations in the long term. Then undermining is a fact. This behaviour has then been accepted and is no longer perceived as cross-standard by the citizen, with the final stage that cross-standard behaviour could paradoxically become the new standard. People can no longer put their finger on it, and maybe they conform themselves, but it doesn't feel right. This may be a part of the explanation for the damage to the right, for the feelings of unrest about security among some citizens. Fortunately, this is a positive development. Legal certainty and legal guarantees benefit from a criminal justice chain that is as consistent as possible. We've been working on that in the last few years. In my opinion, the national police project fits in well with that. I will deal with the questions raised by some Members on this subject later. In addition, the police have more and more possibilities in the search. Here it will always be necessary to find the right balance in modern detection with respect for fundamental rights. As Minister of Justice and Security, I feel a great responsibility to strengthen the foundation of our rule of law, where possible, in order to preserve the rule of law. But I also feel responsibility for ensuring that the rule of law is effective for people who are socially in a difficult position. People must be protected from the power of the State, but they must also be protected by the power of the State. The rule of law stands for both. Check-and-balances should limit the power of different state bodies, but checks-and-balances should not limit the effectiveness of the government in such a way that ordinary people are not adequately protected. Effective rule of law; this is how it should be experienced. By the welfare mom in a street full of hemp plantations. By innocent bystanders of reckonings between criminals. And by an entrepreneur who threatens to compete against companies that launder criminal money. I feel obliged to do for all those people what is possible to achieve their sense of justice, which is possible with the sole limitation of the limits of our rule of law. This means that I should not be deterred immediately as soon as a potential legal dilemma arises in the distance. I must also explore the area where necessary and examine the precise limits of the democratic rule of law. Only then can you do justice to everyone, and only then will you strengthen the rule of law. Where the State is running against the limits of its power, I will, of course, have to discuss this with society. People need to be able to make themselves heard, and they need to know that they are being heard. In this way, we are already well on our way, for example, with the right to speak of disadvantaged persons in criminal matters. I think that society is a much needed care and attention that we should give people. Meanwhile, we must also recognise that our carefully built rule of law cannot be an ivory tower. The rule of law must be at the heart of society. For example, technological developments and globalisation require rethinking our perspective on the rule of law. For a long time, our rule of law has been seen from a predominantly one-dimensional perspective: protecting citizens from the power of the State, i.e. vertical fundamental rights, vertical rule of law. In the 1980s, the High Council dared to codify a very clear broadening by adding a new dimension, horizontal fundamental rights and thus much more the horizontal rule of law, which also allowed citizens to relate to each other when it comes to fundamental rights and fundamental rights. Mr. Chairman. I would like to consider here today whether we should not examine with each other, Parliament and Cabinet, whether we should perhaps consider fundamental rights from an even three-dimensional perspective: not only from government to citizen and between citizens, but also from government and citizens in relation to the globalising and far-reaching technology environment. It is not just about augmented human being, but also about augmented human rights. That is just one of the issues that would be raised. We are always looking for the exact balance in that field of the rule of law: you, me and society, Madam President. That force field is developing rapidly. It's constantly shifting. I therefore see this debate on the state of the rule of law as a new step in our ongoing search, together with you and the whole of society, for the balance between rights and obligations. Between state-law purity in an abstract sense and effectiveness in practice. Between the protection of the citizen from the power of the State and the protection of the citizen by the power of the State. Between the vertical rule of law, the horizontal rule of law and what I would like to mention here is the 3D rule of law. Madam President. Following this introduction, I will respond to the questions, first of all to the issues raised on the rule of law, then to the undermining, then to the questions on the criminal justice chain and then to a number of different subjects that have been raised. I will begin with the issues of the rule of law. It has been discussed: is constitutional review not a missing link in our rule of law; could that be a useful addition? Now, the lifting of the 120 Constitutional prohibition requires a constitutional change. A proposal to this effect has been in the Lower House for some time now. The government will comment on its content in the event of the continuation of its plenary proceedings. As you may be aware, the Van Tongeren second reading proposal must, in the opinion of the Council of State, which is an opinion of September last year, have been deemed to have expired, now that several Chambers have been dissolved. It is up to the House of Representatives to decide expressly whether it accepts that opinion from the Council of State. Furthermore, constitutional scrutiny is without doubt one of the subjects on which the State Committee on Parliamentary System will comment. The committee's report is expected this autumn. This means that the cabinet is not now in motion, but the Lower House or the State Committee parliamentary system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u19	I believe that the cabinet is in a constant state of play and has the opportunity to take a position, a position on this issue. Has this been the subject of the coalition discussions or later when the agenda for Justice and Security was set? Has there been any decision or discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u20	It is not a subject on which an objective is set out in the government agreement, other than the question of the State Committee on Parliamentary System. I think that is why I have just justified this situation, in view of the opinion of the Council of State, that the House of Representatives should first state whether it is taking over the opinion of the Council of State on the Van Tongeren second reading proposal or not. That's not up to the cabinet, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u21	My point is that in my opinion it does not necessarily depend on whether the House of Representatives will continue with the legislative proposal. I assume that we can in any case ask the government what it thinks about constitutional review and whether or not implementation would be desirable. Why should the government have been silenced by, for example, a choice by the House of Representatives not to take the bill further?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u22	It's not so much about mouth-deadening. I have just referred in my reply to the parliamentary system committee. I do not think it is so much a question of being or not being mouth-dead. It is a question of: who is speaking?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u23	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u24	It is clear that we are not getting an answer to my question today. However, I would like to ask whether the cabinet will at least come forward with a position this year. If the state committee does not say anything about it or will only express itself in general terms, is the Minister prepared to ensure that the cabinet delivers an opinion on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u25	I grew up in my long professional life with the rule that it makes no sense to assume an assumption. I have to take the facts as my starting point. I just outlined it to you in my answer. I welcome the fact that we are now waiting for the report of the State Committee on Parliament's system. Mr. Chairman. There was a question from Mr Van Dijk about the contacts with churches. Yes, I fully accepted that commitment. I have also made a number of visits to various churches, unlike the church society I come from myself. I am also going to deal with this later on with another point: 'Chanoekaieringen' and other matters. I can also mention the Crossroads Church in Amersfoort. These visits do not only serve to visit the church, but also to discuss the issues raised by Mr Van Dijk. In particular, the importance of the principles of our democratic rule of law, such as freedom of religion, is addressed in these talks. I think it is a very important subject and I will continue with that dialogue. I take it that answer is sufficient. Under the rule of law, the peer review mechanism has also been discussed, including questions from Mrs Strik. The AIV advocated the periodic peer review on the functioning of the rule of law in all Member States, on the basis of reports from a committee of independent experts. How do I look at that? It has already been mentioned in the cabinet position on that opinion in January 2018. The cabinet has a cautious approach. I quote: "For the cabinet, the pursuit of a so-called peer review mechanism is not at the expense of the carefully built-up practice of discussing specific constitutional state developments in the General Affairs Council. In addition, it will be necessary to explore ways of ensuring the effectiveness and efficiency of such a mechanism. Under these conditions, the further examination of possible interpretations of the peer review mentioned by the AIV is on the agenda. The best use should be made of existing instruments in the Justice framework (European Justice Scoreboard/EJS; Council of Europe CEEPJ). The cabinet also insists that respect for the values referred to in Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union is a responsibility that concerns all Member States. Cop group formation is therefore not obvious, but the search for Member States that want to act as drivers may be a first step in a peer review mechanism in Justice and Home Affairs Council." Mrs Bikker asked what the cabinet's ambition was about the inauguration of the new generation in the existing values, the transfer of values. The government believes that education should bring back the broader perspective of our cultural history and our history and of what binds us firmly. This is also part of the revision of the curriculum of primary and secondary education that my colleague Mr Slob, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education, is working on. Soon the development teams set up by Minister Slob will come forward with proposals for an updated curriculum and one of them will focus specifically on the topic of citizenship. This is about the implementation of citizenship education, in which the core values of our democratic rule of law will be at the heart of it. Mr Ruers raised a question about the Code of Criminal Procedure. I've been standing here "Mr. Ruers," but I think that was Mrs. Van Bijsterveld's question. I'm sorry, I misread that. Are the efforts of the mega-operation of the new Code of Criminal Procedure proportionate to the real yield and how will these ministers ensure this? The modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure is really a matter of major maintenance of the Code. It is important in a rule of law that this happens, that large, important codes of conduct are kept up-to-date. An important objective of modernisation is precisely to improve processes and reduce administrative burdens. We have chosen a plan in which we have been talking to all chain partners from the beginning. They've all been talking and thinking. We have also set up a parallel programme at the start of this major process to look at implementation consequences, precisely in order to increase the quality of the new code and to ensure that it is implemented in a timely manner. In the context of modernisation, the position of the defence is also specifically considered. On behalf of the WODC, research is carried out by the universities of Utrecht and Maastricht. Work processes and cooperation in the chain are also examined, for example in relation to procedural documents. The results of this study are expected in October 2018 and will be involved in the modernisation project. Mrs Vlietstra had a question, to which I am also speaking on behalf of my Sander Dekker, about the merger of OM, justice and police, namely why nothing has been done with the De Graaf motion. Now, after an in-depth discussion of the substance, a different consideration has been made in the formation. The political balance has been made to keep the tasks of public order, detection, justice and police together, but a very clear separation has been made between the Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for Legal Protection, so that legal protection is clearly on the side of my colleague Sander Dekker. I refer you to the General Political Reviews in your Chamber, in which Prime Minister Rutte explained this further on 5 December. Then there is the last question about the rule of law, that of Mrs Bikker. The choice was made to leave the Ministry large in size, but to improve manageability with two ministers. The coalition agreement has increased the financial scope for JenV. Now it is up to us to have and maintain the challenges and to fight them firmly. What priorities do these ministers set? What do they themselves see as the greatest challenges? What priorities are set, what challenges we want and can face and what resources we use to address them, is described annually in the JenV budget. I therefore propose that we continue to discuss this essential question with each other in the budget debate. I see that I have two answers to the question of the rule of law, if that is all right with you, Mr President. Mrs Van Bijsterveld has proposed, on behalf of her group, a multiannual investment programme and proposals for the maintenance of the rule of law along the lines outlined by her. For the multi-annual investment programme, I refer to the government agreement concluded last year. In this you will see many investments in the comprehensive paragraph on our subjects: justice, security and legal protection. The Spring Note and the JenV budget will indicate how the announced investments will be used. I think that is a good time to debate this. Finally, something which I myself consider to be a rule of law, where my colleague Mr Dekker will be discussing in greater detail the issues of digitisation and justice and digitisation and the rule of law. A few overarching questions have been asked that relate to the Cybersecurity Agenda that I put out two months ago. I say two months, but that was one month ago. At the end of April, the Cybersecurity Agenda was there and it contains seven ambitions that are translated into concrete measures to make the Netherlands safe in the field of cyber. The agenda focuses on closer cooperation with industry, including tech companies and thus also those very large tech companies, through public-private cooperation. We don't necessarily have to compete. We can also work together if this is useful for digital security and also if it is useful to achieve a good balance in a digital world. Mr. Chairman. Then I had some questions to answer on the subject of undermining. Undermining crime, first of all, for the sake of explanation, does not interfere with national borders. We are talking about drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings and money laundering, but also about all kinds of fraud. It is a crime that is globally branched, but it is also rooted locally. The criminal drug industry requires production and storage sites, transport facilities, financial and legal service providers. This creates a sneaking innest in local society and social sectors. The intertwinedness of the underworld and the upper world associated with it is a direct threat to our rule of law. There are also risks of corruption, both public and private. People in key positions in government and business become vulnerable to bribery or influence. The practice of recent years has shown that there are also risks to the integrity of public administration. In addition, we are faced with threats from civil servants and law enforcement. That's unacceptable. With undermining crime earned wealth is reinvested into the legal economy: money laundering. This also threatens the integrity of our financial and economic system. The large drug industry in our country is deeply nestled in neighborhoods, neighborhoods and neighbourhoods where people hesitate to report suspicious activities because they fear reprisals. This may lead to the emergence of a kind of parallel societies in which the rule is not enforcement and the law is the norm, but at some point cross-standard behavior that is; I said it in my introduction. If you are not careful, this cross-standard behavior is paradoxically almost the norm, so in some cases doing hand-and-span services and then participating in criminal activities. That gnaws at the basic sense of safety of many Dutch people, especially those who are already in a vulnerable position. At the same time, a strengthened approach to undermining crime requires good attention to constitutional principles and values. Let me give you some examples. The desired broad, comprehensive approach means the use of a mix of instruments: criminal, administrative, civil. In doing so, we must pay close attention to the purity of roles of the public authorities involved and to their legitimate application. We shouldn't be on the subject of détournement de pouvoir. There is a need, from the point of view of practice, for strengthening, extending instruments, both in criminal law and in administrative law. This concerns, for example, the planned increase in the penalty rate for participating in a criminal organisation and an amendment to the Bibob Act which extends and strengthens the investigation possibilities of administrative bodies. The implementation practice also calls for the possibility of taking away criminal assets to be extended. Finally, I would like to say that I am also working on the possibility of improving exchange by means of partnerships, entirely within the limits of what is permitted by law. This involves radical new powers which also require compensatory measures in terms of legal protection. It's always about finding the right balance. It is a firmer approach, but one that is shaped from clear constitutional values. As Minister of Justice and Security, I am responsible for this. Then I come to the questions about this undermining crime. Mr Dercksen referred to the term 'narcostat'. He says there should be thousands of detectives and that there would be too few police in the outskirts in particular. My answer to this is, as I said some time ago in the House of Representatives, that the concept of 'narcostat' is absolutely not relevant in relation to the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, however, we have a serious problem with organised crime which, as has been said, has a very undermining effect on certain already vulnerable parts of our society. Drug crime is an important part of this undermining crime, and that certainly gives cause for additional action, additional resources and even more focus on legislation, but it is no reason to use the word 'narcostate' in the mouth. That would imply that the drug traffickers would be in the government and the Chamber. The concern about the threat of organised undermining crime is precisely the reason why the cabinet gives very high priority to combating it. Additional resources have been made available to significantly step up this approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u26	The term "narcostate" is not my term, but a term that comes from the police. I mentioned the definition of the term in my contribution. I see its use as the ringing of the alarm clock by the people. And the financial contributions that the cabinet is going to make are totally inadequate. That is perfectly clear and Akerboom has just said that in an interview in the newspaper. In that, he says: people don't have that much to do with these falling crime rates, because they don't fit in with the feeling they have, also because they just don't register. So the minister keeps a nice story now, he's understanding and he sees the problems, but with those few nickels he puts in, I charger, we're not gonna win the war. If the police are asking for 3,000 detectives, they're not doing it for nothing, then the water's on the lips. So you need to make a bigger effort. That's my request. This minister comes from outside; he is also from the business community. He's joining the Justice Department now. I have the idea that there are more bodies there than closets; I mean that transferable. Then I expect this minister to say: yes, boys, I come from outside and I've got a ministry split in my stomach where it doesn't work. I expect him to say: if we want to bring this country's security one step higher, much more needs to be done. He has to say: so meet me and give me much more resources to actually do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u27	Madam President, it is perhaps a good thing that I should take the alarm calls from the police organisation into account. The additional funds allocated in the government agreement for the police amount to 291 million in structural terms. That means a lot and that means that the police can build a flexible, very robust organisation. She does that by investing in both more police and better police. There is an eye for what the organisation itself can do in all respects in a responsible way. On top of this 267 million plus 24 million is 291 million, it is structuralally 10 million per year for the specific fight against undermining crime, and another 100 million in the form of an undermining fund. I have to tell you that these are very large resources that are being made available. Of course one can say: there can always be more police. We are talking here today about Justice and Security, but in a society we have to consider this issue in the end. The investment made by this cabinet in the police force shows a very clear ambition to create a safe and just society and a police force that can handle the undermining crime with extra resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u28	If this is reflected in the cuts that have been made on justice, it is a lot of money, but of course it is totally inadequate. You're retrieving a little bit of the cuts that have been made. The police don't ring the bell for nothing. The Minister says we're setting priorities. Of course, that's the truth. Obviously, therefore, the priorities of this cabinet are not in the security of the Netherlands. I just read that 1,400 girls have fallen into the hands of what we used to call lover boys and what we now call human trafficking. It's 1,400 girls a year. Yeah, what else am I supposed to say? If we allow that, if that's the status, if we don't post more who steal cars to prevent puff squatting in Germany... At what level do you really want to maintain the rule of law if this is the practice? There are hardly any more priorities for what citizens experience on a daily basis. I'll mention those car thefts that aren't being investigated, but there are countless cases. One can hardly press charges anymore. I really want to hear from you in concrete terms at what level you really want to enforce that rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u29	Well, look, I'm not going to repeat what I just said about the investment being made on the police front and even specifically on the fight against undermining crime. In any case, I would also like to say to you that last Thursday in Maastricht, for example, I signed a treaty with Belgium and the Land of North Rhine-Westphalia to work with each other in the region with a view to improving the exchange of information and a better joint approach in the fight against crime, for example, in order to avoid so-called waterbed effects. For example, there are many more examples of how we are now using each other in a structured way to combat organised undermining crime. I would certainly like to stress to Mr Dercksen through you, Mr President, that I take the issues he is talking about seriously, such as trafficking in human beings. That's why this cabinet is investing. Yes, I would like to mention one more point about undermining. Mrs Van Bijsterveld has pointed out that it is really important that we have a well-functioning criminal investigation and well-functioning tax investigation services. That is absolutely my approach. This must be combated by means of a comprehensive integrated approach. Let me be quite honest: that was also the case with my predecessor, and we must continue with even more force. Criminal investigation and prosecution is an important element. There is no misunderstanding about this, but this comprehensive approach is not only a matter for the police and the judiciary, but also for the municipalities, special investigation services and, above all, for the Tax Administration. Of course you always have customization, so on a case-by-case basis you will see which instruments or which mix of instruments should be used here. Then, of course, there should be no overlap with the responsibilities of the various parties involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u30	In fact, I was not concerned with the overlap, but rather with ensuring that those two other matters, i.e. the criminal justice chain and the fiscal investigation, are in order to prevent the drivers from ultimately being given an improper role, you were talking about rolling purity, and to prevent them from actually getting into a position that they can't live up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u31	You have a point to make. I would like to stress once again that it is precisely investing in that criminal justice chain that makes it possible for the parties that play a role in this process to better tackle that role and to prevent others from actually coming into the wrong role. But in the meantime, therefore, I went a little further in my explanation "This integrated approach is a very important part and in the recent past it has proved to be a very successful part of the policy. That's the only reason I'm going to explain that. Let me now turn to Mr Dercksen's question on crime figures. He believes that these figures give an incomplete picture. How is that possible, he asked. Well, registered crime has shown a steady decline in recent years. This is not just the case in the Netherlands, but in almost all Western European countries. This is evident not only from the figures of crime reported to the police, but also from victim surveys, in which citizens themselves identify the crimes they have been victims of each year. The trend of falling registered crime is thus confirmed separately by two different sources. There are also forms of less visible crime that only partly come back in those crime statistics. This is, for example, organised undermining crime. Well, I have just paid the necessary attention to that and also said that we are very much committed to it. And it's also about cybercrime. That has not been raised today by your Members, but I have a special responsibility in that too, and this cabinet has also made additional resources available for this, which is part of the extra cyber security money. However, at the moment, further research is being conducted by the WODC into the possibility of improving the picture of unregistered crime, and the results of this research will be available by the summer. However, from the current way in which these statistics are produced, again, with two different sources, I cannot deduce that there is an unreliable picture. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked questions about the evaluation of the National Police project. That is actually the Committee on Viewing. Yes, you have actually asked, following the criticism of Professor Fijnaut, among others, whether there should be another alternative evaluation. Well, that committee has carried out an independent evaluation. In doing so, we have taken into account specific wishes regarding the evaluation from the Lower House, but also from your Upper Chamber. The committee and the researchers who worked for the committee have also had frequent contact with the authorities, mayor, prosecutor and police themselves. In the short term, I will send the cabinet position I am currently formulating on this matter to Parliament. It also includes measures aimed at the further development and improvement of the police and the police system. On the basis of the committee's report and the cabinet's position, the debate on the evaluation and the cabinet's position will take place. I do not want to anticipate the conclusions of that debate. It may be that this debate has led to the possibility that further evaluation or investigation may still be needed on parts or otherwise. I don't know. I have started this evaluation and I am formulating a response that I am going to discuss with Parliament. Then we'll have to look further. Mrs Van Bijsterveld also mentioned the issue of the judicial card, which would not be in line with that of the police. She asked me to take a closer look at that. The borders of the regional units of the police are congruent at the borders of the arrondissementsparkets of the Office, but there is one regional unit in the arrondissements of Gelderland and Overijssel together. That's what the Police Act says, to be precise, in Article 25 (2). I don't think that's a bottleneck. In the outlying areas, I am absent from Mr Dercksen's office and boas are forced to take on armed gangs. There's no rule of law there anymore. He asked me to respond. Green boas, then, I really mean the green extraordinary detectives, before any misunderstandings arise, make an important contribution to surveillance and enforcement in outlying areas. They're doing this in conjunction with the police. It is important that the boas can do their work safely. It really has my interest and my attention. In cases where a boa suspects that someone he is on the trail of unlawful acts might be armed, he immediately contacts the police. On the contrary, Boas contribute significantly to the maintenance of the rule of law in the outlying areas. Then Mr Dercksen asked whether there were any measures against Moroccan and Antillean networks that were leaking information to the police. Well, the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u32	I'll be back on the boas. Because with this brief remark, you are not doing justice to the problems that exist. I know boas who've got a gun on their heads and all they've got on them is a coupon book and if they're lucky, maybe handcuffs. Things have been found in the south of the province of Utrecht as I described. Then the police must come out of Woerden at night to assist them, but then it is already light again, so that makes no sense. As far as I am concerned, you cannot finish with this brief comment on the boas. Those boas are doing a hell of a job, they're very involved in their work, but they can't do their job anymore because they're confronted with professional criminals. I would like to draw attention to this and perhaps more opportunities for the boas, read: more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u33	I just finished by emphasising that boas make an important contribution to the enforcement of the rule of law in outlying areas. I certainly pay attention to their position, including in difficult circumstances, to ensure that they can do that work safely. When it comes to specific individual cases of violence against a boa, I come to the point that I cannot go into with you today. You know that. 'Cause if I did, that would only disrupt the course of justice in every case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u34	But in what way do you want to pay attention to the problems of these people? I know someone who only joins the police because he now has to do his job almost unarmed. He thinks the work he does is no longer responsible for his family. In what way can this boa, if he is watching today, be confident that the attention you are going to give will also lead to something concrete?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u35	I think I'd fall into repetition. I would like to say to Mr Dercksen through you, Mr President, that I may be able to express some further thoughts on this subject in the second term, but otherwise I would end up in too much of a back and forth debate. I was on another point by Mr Dercksen: are there any measures against Moroccan and Antillean networks that leak information to the police? The police take many preventive and repressive measures in the areas of integrity policy, information security policy and screening policy, with the aim of preventing integrity violations as far as possible. It is established that continued attention to integrity is needed. Every integrity violation within the police force is one too many, although you can never prevent integrity violations 100%. It is therefore still important to make and maintain police staff more resilient, for example through awareness-raising measures, such as making integrity discussable and training on it. I am also preparing a legislative proposal to extend police screening powers further. That bill has already been consulted. I expect to be able to submit that bill to your Chamber this year. It offers more legal opportunities to investigate the environment of candidate officials as well. A continuous screening will also be introduced. Mr Backer had a question about the sense of security. That came from the Rule of Law Index, where we score number 1 on a number of subjects and on the subject of security we are only number 20. You asked for a reflection on that. It is a fact that registered crime has fallen in recent years. Victim surveys confirm that. They, too, seem to be experiencing a decline in crime. But that does not mean that citizens feel safer. The feeling of safety depends on many factors that are not always easily influenced. It is important that the government continues to do everything in its power to improve the fight against crime. For this I also refer to, for example, the investment in the police under the coalition agreement. It is also important to improve the understanding of the nature and extent of unregistered crime. As I pointed out in reply to Mr Dercksen's question, a study by the WODC will be completed this summer. Finally, we are also investing in improving the willingness to report. Before the summer recess, I will send a letter on that subject to the House of Representatives. This is really a reflection. I cannot now give a final explanation for this, but you can see that we are investigating exactly what it is in and that I really aim to have at least part of the answer in the summer. Why do we have to wait two weeks to report a sex crime? What do we do to improve the processes surrounding the declaration? Mr Dercksen made an important point. Victims of sex crimes can always report to the police. You can do that right after the informational interview with the police. But there are situations in which it may be desirable for the victim to observe a period of reflection. Can I really stress that it can be desirable for the slachtoffering? The impact of the declaration process can be significant for the victim and the environment. Agreements are made with the victim on the duration of the reflection period and the way in which contact takes place between the police and the victim. The length of the reflection period may vary from case to case. The starting point is that the reflection period is up to two weeks in relation to the progress of the investigation and that the police have contact with the victim after the agreed deadline. That conversation is conducted by specialized sex detectives, who are trained in the preparation and the objective approach of the facts. That's really well organized. This is more detailed in two letters I sent to the House of Representatives. One was drawn up in the context of the #MeToo discussion. In that letter, I returned to this case. I also said that we were concerned that things did not go well in this matter; let us be clear about that. The second letter focuses on the Hoorn vice case. In that I have explained clearly that I am not going to tell you all again and again that if someone comes with such a report, they have already overcome a reasonable threshold and that in all other respects professional assistance and legal aid are offered immediately. It is regrettable that it has not been done in the Hoorn vice case as you would think it should be done. That's what I wrote in those two letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u36	I have read that directive, so I do recognize most of what the Minister tells me. I understand that this arrangement can also be quite useful once again, especially when things are going through incorruptible within the relationship. So there is something to be said for that, but my comment was particularly concerned with the importance of detection. What's going on in such a clear case as the Hoorn sex case is that the unsub wasn't someone in the victim's own circle. Then the police and the justice system, or at least the police in this case, did not have the retina that it is in the interest of detection to act immediately. I cannot imagine that, because it happened to be in the media, this has been the only example. Can the Minister give me a handle on that which is being looked at seriously and that this sort of thing is certainly being looked at more in the interest of detection?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u37	I'm gonna have to put it right for you. That hand-out consists of the following. This is, as I have just described, a process or a directive that has been very carefully implemented with all the parties involved, including the authorities on the side of the victims. That's one. Secondly, I would like to stress that it is not said: "Would you like to report yourself? No. Then it'll be done in no time." Police and Public Prosecutor's Office do judge how to deal with this. Then they do it in every case. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ten aanzien van de zaak die we nu een paar keer genoemd hebben, kan ik niet anders dan herhalen dat het door een ongelukkige samenloop van allerlei omstandigheden niet zo is gegaan als het moest gaan.]] I still wanted to go to the matter of declaration. Mrs Van Bijsterveld said that we must prevent declarations from being made mainly from an insurance point of view, without the real expectation that the police will do something with them. I agree with the importance of filing a report. It's essential to police work. That is why it is in the coalition agreement. The police are looking at any report as to whether there are any clues to the police investigation, even if there is no information in the report that will allow us to track down offenders; let that be clear. Even then, every report is important for the police, for example to set up extra surveillance if a lot of reports of burglary are made in a particular neighborhood. It's always good to have a report filed. The processes to do so are organized as efficiently as possible for the police and especially for the reporter. In cases where an insurance issue is involved, we also often see that Internet declarations are used. Then Mrs. Bikker...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u38	May I interrupt you for a moment, Mr. Secretary? I warn you that in about three or four minutes, we're going to suspend because of the other obligation we're all going to go across the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u39	I have four more answers. I could do that in four minutes. But of course, I don't know how that goes on the part of the criminal justice chain. And then I have my other answers for after the break. That's about eight more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u40	That's good, if you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u41	I'm gonna do my best. I have Mrs Van Bijsterveld's question for a response to the question of the budget of the NFI. As a result of the problems at the NFI a year ago, I am working on a vision of forensic research. After the summer recess it will be ready. That vision will respond to developments in forensic research, particularly as regards the role of private parties. The outsourcing of forensic work to private parties has been satisfactory for years. As far as money is concerned, the government agreement provides additional resources for the criminal justice chain, including the NFI. The precise distribution will be evident in the spring note and at Princess Day. Then there was the issue of the administrative chain consultation in the criminal justice chain. Mrs Van Bijsterveld has asked if I am prepared to work to ensure that this actually leads to improvement in practice. It then refers to the administrative chain council of the criminal justice chain. I'll consult with that BKB on a regular basis. Even before the summer recess, I will report on what the BKB will do to further improve the performance of the criminal justice chain. I can already tell you that the objectives and priorities of the CBD will focus, among other things, on digitisation and on the way forward. The starting point is that the improvements to be implemented have a positive social impact and thus actually lead to improvements in practice. Then there was a nice point.. all other points were of course also beautiful.. by Mrs Bikker. She pointed out the finger that Professor De Graaf puts on the vulnerability of security thinking, which is actually a kind of paradox. The "safety paradox" is by the way a term of the sociologist Hans Boutellier. It means: the more security measures you take, the more scared the citizens would become. Fear is a bad counselor, says the proverb. But that does not mean, of course, that a government should not take preventive measures to increase security. Maybe you'll get less into that fear scheme, too. The solution is what is well called "fear management." This is a term coined by Edwin Bakker and Tinka Veldhuis of the International Centre for Counter-Terrorism in 2012. The government must write "so" in 2012 "the citizens mentally prepare for the eventuality of terrorism." In short: objective information about the do's-and-don'ts, without frightening the citizens. That is also the line that the cabinet is in favour of, and so am I. We must remain sober, but we must face the risks and bring them to our attention. Then I only have the folder with the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u42	You still have the folder with the other questions, I understand. They'll be for after dinner. You and also Minister Dekker and myself had agreed to attend the presentation of the book on Thorbecke at 5 p.m. That's why I'm gonna suspend now. But I won't do that until after I've noticed the following. You know the term "scripta manent." That's what's written, it's written. I heard you say at the beginning of your reply that the driving force behind this debate on the state of the rule of law was Mr Witteveen. We commemorate Mr Witteveen with warm feelings and extraordinary appreciation, also for his wonderful contribution to the debate on the state of the rule of law in 2014. But I must say that the driving force behind the fact that we had this debate then and now have it is yours truly. I'm just saying that this is going to go down in history just as well. For two years we have been working to ensure that the debate could be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u43	Madam President, my vocal presentation may not have been entirely careful. But my text says he was a driving force.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u44	Fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u45	That leaves all the room for everyone...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u46	Okay. But I thought I'd fix the history after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u47	I hope we can still go to that book presentation together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u48	Yeah, we're going across the street now. I'm suspending the meeting for a break, including dinner break, until 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u49	I will reopen the debate and thank everyone for being able to come back so soon. I give the floor to the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u50	Madam President. Before I start with the other categories, please forgive me for having to remember the famous true history of the BBC radio program Gardening maintenance that was shut down in the middle of a broadcast due to the Blitzkrieg and could not be resumed for two and a half years. In addition, the presenter spoke the historical words: "As I was saying before we were so rudely interrupted..." But let me focus on the facts again. I would like to discuss a number of points which are not really covered by a subject. That's definitely not what I'm talking about. On the subject of anti-Semitism, I should like to say out loud that it is at the heart of our rule of law that we are fighting this. I come to that because Dercksen has rightly asked a question about the destruction of the Jewish restaurant in Amsterdam. His question was: why is that considered vandalism and not terrorism? I would like to emphasise once again, as I have already done, that I have strongly opposed any form of discrimination against population groups. I also said and kept saying: I find anti-Semitism objectionable. It's not part of our society, and I'll always stand up to it. Following the destruction last December, I consulted various Jewish organizations. There was also talk about the safety of the Jewish community. I take that very seriously. The next day I myself visited two synagogues, this time not to show as Minister of Honor but as Minister of Justice how much I care. As I have informed your Chamber before, it is not possible for me to deal with a matter that is under the courts. I would like to say to you that the charge and penalty of the prosecution is, in principle, a matter of discretion. In doing so, the prosecution is bound by criminal law, but of course it involves all circumstances. In any case, we have all been able to follow in the media lately that the public prosecutor is taking this issue very seriously, as Mr Van Dijk has also pointed out. I would like to say again to Members through you that I am not talking about individual matters. That is purely because that would only affect the course of justice wrongly. That just shouldn't happen. Period. Mr Van Dijk has asked a few more questions about the fight against anti-Semitism, among other things: would it not be high time for a flag at city halls that expresses the fact that we do not accept anti-Semitism? He also asked: should we not turn the criminal proceedings into something that has a much more dissuasive effect, for example through a certain kind of extra publicity and publicity? First of all, as I said, we are tackling discrimination and anti-Semitism vigorously. The coalition agreement states that everyone in the Netherlands is equal and has the freedom to be visible to themselves. The National Action Programme against Discrimination 2016-2020 also sets out the commitment of the Cabinet to combat discrimination. Last month, the House of Representatives received a progress report including the 2017 figures on the influx of discrimination cases. The majority of the anti-Semitic expressions that came into the public prosecutor's office in 2017 are football-related: speaking choirs around football matches, especially at the Amsterdam club Ajax. KNVB, football clubs, police and OM have a wide range of instruments, including the closure of the game. The progress report I mentioned also announced a number of tightening-up of the policy of discrimination, including so that all the parties concerned will work together and make the right intervention. That doesn't always have to be criminal. Addressing discrimination does not constitute a generic policy to combat discrimination on any basis. There is no need for an action plan or measures on a single grounds of discrimination. The public prosecutor's office regularly conducts thematic hearings of discrimination which really strengthens the focus on the crime, in essence what Mr Van Dijk is proposing more or less. I leave the proposal of expressions at city halls on anti-discrimination policy with municipalities. The criminal approach of threatened politicians is a priority, as demonstrated by the special team set up for this purpose. I would like to conclude by stressing that we in the Netherlands have a very careful, well-functioning criminal process, which fortunately, in many cases, has been given strong attention, indeed also in the media. So much for that question. Mrs Bikker asked: could there be a study to see which counter-terrorism legislation measures are best or the most targeted and effective? Well, counter-terrorism legislation includes a wide range of legal measures. The use of these measures, of course, requires continuous management of effectiveness and proportionality. You can rest assured that I am doing a real day-to-day job of weighing that up. I myself and the NCTV, the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security, are, of course, always monitoring carefully what measures contribute to security. We also keep the finger on the wrist continuously at that point. I would also like to draw your attention to the periodic threat picture of the NCTV, which was published in my mind at the end of March, at the beginning of April of this year. The case-law and the way in which it has been dealt with can be found in it. I would like to refer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u51	Thank you to the Minister for monitoring this closely and being so active, precisely in preventing misery and maintaining a resilient society. My point went a little deeper. In recent years, we have dealt with a lot of separate legislation in the Senate which has led to this complete set of instruments. There is an evaluation clause in this legislation. Soon we're going to get a whole series of evaluations of specific laws in a row. I am asking about this, also in the light of the previous discussion on the security paradox which the Minister spoke about: is it not wise to look at it as a whole, so that you can see what is effective, what works, perhaps what is extra necessary, also in the decentralised instruments, and also what may not be effective, so that we can show the citizen, when we talk about the management of fear, honestly: this works and that is why we do it, that does not work and that is why we adapt it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u52	If Mrs Bikker focuses on the evaluation: of course, if we want to have a meaningful evaluation together, we will have to show how this legislation has been drafted. I want to make no mistake about that. In the meantime, I have indicated that we are constantly testing what is working and what is not working. I would have understood Mrs Bikker in effectiveness studies, but I do not think that it is appropriate, if only, as she understands, not to play into the hands of the opponents, so that they can hear exactly from us: that is where we find success and not there. I would like to say out loud that, in the context of this evaluation, which should be sensible, we should, of course, come back to the Chamber with: this is the sum total of, for example, those threats and other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u53	I thank the Minister for his commitment, but my picture here is that this legislation is being considered in conjunction, not to complete the list, but to be pure. We in the Chamber have always had to weigh: Is this wise? Why are we doing this? That is what the Chamber has made choices about. Most of them have been warmly supported, including by my group, but with the feeling of: we are in a tension here between maintaining individual freedoms against protecting security. I appreciate the Minister's commitment, but I do hope that I can understand him in such a way that he takes together the multitude of legislation that has passed, so that on day one I do not talk about withdrawing passports and on day two about withdrawing nationality, in order to outline it in that perspective. I'd like to see it in conjunction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u54	We're gonna get that evaluation later. I have said to Mrs Bikker that it is not a commitment, but an announcement that we will come up with a sensible report to the Chamber as part of that evaluation. Then it will also be examined how a particular scheme works. How that goes on in the end, I am not going to go into detail about that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u55	Finally, very briefly, Mrs Bikker
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u56	But, Mr President, since there is an evaluation clause in each of the individual legislative proposals that we have adopted, I would ask the Minister to ensure that we are not all given individual evaluations every six months, whereas it would perhaps be more sensible to look at this whole, especially with regard to the threats that the Minister has on the retina when it comes to evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u57	Fortunately, Mrs Bikker now also uses the word "suspicious." We can agree on this, because I believe that a sensible evaluation should be possible in due course. Mr Dercksen asked why the D.A. did not investigate the illegal demonstration of Turks in Rotterdam, but he did ask for that of a number of other people, because of a children's party that they didn't want to be ruined. I say that the public prosecutor himself has to make the decision at some point. Mr Dercksen also referred to this issue in Rotterdam with regard to anti-Semitism. He mentioned them, too. The general reaction is that I cannot take responsibility for this, nor do I do so in order to consider whether or not to prosecute in individual cases. I have already explained to Mr Dercksen what is the underlying reason for this, but we must not forget that if a direct interested party does not agree with a decision by the Public Prosecutor not to prosecute, it is precisely our rule of law that has a guarantee in the form of the so-called Article 12 procedure. Then the person concerned can refer the case directly to a court of law. That must be the body that then says: it must still be prosecuted here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u58	I mentioned a number of things. I put them against each other because I cannot escape the impression that the Public Prosecutor's Office is obviously quite selective in the choices it makes. That's what I'm worried about. We've got a little time left. I would actually ask the Minister to look at that 2014 video when that demonstration took place in Rotterdam. I guarantee him: the smoke will also come out of his ears of anger, of anger. What the D.A. did with that speech is that it was falsely interpreted. The D.A. has assigned a value to that speech that isn't there. That pisses me off. That is what I am worried about, because apparently Frisians who block a road can get a piece of twenty sides, but when they talk about Zionist grounds in my city, the public prosecutor is willing to look away. The Minister uses the word "unacceptable." If I say that, it probably has little impact, but it is impossible for us to allow that to happen in this country. That's my feeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u59	Two things about that. The first is, and I want to have said this out loud for everyone who is interested in this important debate on the rule of law: our rule of law has an Article 12 procedure before the court. If people find, for example, what happens at such a demonstration, that there must be prosecution, they can refer it to the court. Mr Dercksen and I both know a lot of good examples where the court has said: that persecution must take place. That's the first thing. Secondly, not personal, because I am here as Minister of Justice: I can very much express what I think of anti-Semitism, to give you an example. So I did so very consciously in the days immediately after I, like Mr Dercksen, had learned of the destruction at the Jewish restaurant. However, I am not going to comment on this matter. I can show that in general I find anti-Semitism objectionable. Those two things, the Article 12 procedure and the fact that Mr Dercksen and I speak out publicly against any form of discrimination, show how the rule of law should work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u60	Of course, I welcome the words spoken by the Minister, but I am from Rotterdam. I love deeds, too. The prosecution has an independent power to prosecute. It has been referred to this case by the city council of Rotterdam. And yet it is willing to twist lyrics in such a way that there is no need to do anything. Then I make the connection to the iman's anklet that didn't get an anklet here because otherwise it would cause a fuss within a certain community. The Minister can't blame me for making that connection, because apparently the prosecution is afraid of reactions in society to do certain things. I'm very sorry about that. I put these things against each other, and I see no other way than that Frisians are being prosecuted, that there is sufficient capacity for that, and that the public attorneys look away at anti-Semitic speeches. Those are the facts. I can't make it prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u61	Firstly, I would like to make it clear that I do not blame any of the Members, not now or in the future. We have this discussion with each other on a very important subject. Then it is good that we are discussing this fundamental issue, the rule of law, and perhaps some differences of opinion here and there. But once again, I think that in this state-of-the-art discussion, we are also naming what is the cornerstone here, and that is such a Article 12 procedure. Any citizen who considers that there is no prosecution in a particular situation in which he is injured is wrong can carry out an Article 12 procedure. I have said it three times now, not just to answer Mr Dercksen, but it may also be good to bring that procedure to the attention of every citizen. I come to the question, including Mr Dercksen, as to why minimum penalties are not introduced. Now, the system of minimum penalties requires that all possible forms of criminal offence should be defined by law. For all these forms, a minimum and maximum penalty should be set, including punitive circumstances. Our Code of Criminal Law contains general definitions of criminal offences, which can be used for both the lightest and the worst criminal scenario. The judge has a wide range of sanctions and can always provide tailor-made services and impose an appropriate penalty on a case-by-case basis. In my opinion, the criminal court is doing this very conscientiously and professionally. I do not therefore see any reason to change this system completely and to limit the freedom of judicial punishment by means of minimum penalties. Then there is a question from Mr Dercksen. He indicated that there would be regular thefts near azc's and that the police would pick up the perpetrators and release them around the corner of the street. He asked if that was a directive. Well, where foreigners commit crimes around azc's, the commitment to cooperation at local level is crucial. This means that, in addition to the criminal proceedings, quick-track law, for example, looks at opportunities within foreign law at the same time. This may lead to a transfer to another location or the detention of the alien if the law allows it, but that is, of course, a consideration to be made in the individual file. Then Mr Dercksen asked what this minister is going to do to arrest and expel criminal illegal immigrants. The expulsion of illegal immigrants, in particular criminal illegal immigrants, is an explicit focus of this cabinet. Countries are obliged to take their nationals back on the basis of international law. This is not enough for a number of countries. There is therefore the need for a comprehensive approach to positive and negative incentives to encourage these countries to improve cooperation. That's what this cabinet really stands for. At EU level, we are also committed to achieving better returns. For the EU, return is a policy priority using a "more for more" and "less for less" approach. I would point out that what I am saying here is literally from the answer given today by the Secretary of State for Justice and Security to this question in the House of Representatives. With regard to the question of persons of Dutch nationality who are involved in terrorist activities abroad, I say that I am not going to anticipate decisions in individual cases here either. Of course, we always look at the possibilities offered by the law for implementing measures to ensure safety. Mr Van Dijk has asked another question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u62	May I ask how much...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u63	I have four more questions for you. I'll be able to answer that soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u64	I don't think we'll make it. Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u65	I can see how far I can get.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u66	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u67	Okay. The implementation of Mr Van Dijk's motion, which was adopted last year in the course of the examination of the bill, which allows, under strict conditions, the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship from, in short, jihadists. Since those concerned cannot in all cases be informed of the revocation decision, the law provides that the Minister himself shall inform the Administrative Court accordingly. The motion has asked for a possible alternative to that particular arrangement that the judge treats the case as if the person concerned had himself brought an action. However, such an investigation will gain in value if we have any experience with this new procedure. Last week the first cases served at the court of The Hague. The verdict will come at the end of June and I will soon instruct the WODC to carry out an investigation requested by your Chamber. This should then be completed within a few months. Then there was the question of the film that was made in a confessional in the church and that is simply qualifying as porn or something. That is what Mr Van Dijk's question was about. On the basis of an individual case, I cannot come to the conclusion that the notion has been violated that citizens only feel the rule of law if they can make use of it. In the case referred to by Mr Van Dijk, a report has been filed and the Public Prosecutor's Office has decided, after careful examination of that report, that there were not enough leads to proceed with criminal prosecution. Well, then I can't say anything else about that now. I do not see any reason to go into supplementary policies or legislation, but of course prayer houses are free to adopt their own house rules to which visitors must conform. It would also be possible to seek cooperation with municipalities as regards the drafting of additional local regulations. The opinion of the scientific office of the Office in this specific case showed that there was a breach of a provision in the APV. I also refer to the letter I sent to your Chamber on 12 December last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u68	Short. I thank the Minister for his clear answer. In your letter, you yourself stated that further regulations at municipal level would be possible. I understand from your reaction that you are not prepared to allow municipalities to actively promote this. I understand you're putting that down at a local level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u69	Very briefly, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u70	I have indicated that the churches or prayer houses themselves can discuss this with the congregations. In any case, I would have liked to have encouraged this. Then there is another question from Mrs Van Bijsterveld about the state's attorney's office. Let me say first of all that the criminal order is imposed by the prosecution, but that the defendant can always oppose it. When imposing the criminal order, he shall also be expressly and carefully informed. This means that the criminal case will still be brought before the court to the full extent. Then things are going to be the same as in ordinary criminal proceedings. Following the report of the PG before the Supreme Court, the Office took the necessary steps to improve the situation. The evaluation of that OM law is almost complete. I expect to be able to send her to the Chamber before the summer. Mrs Strik's last question was about the individual right of complaint in international human rights conventions. I admit: a very different subject from the previous two, but still. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment submitted the proposal for the adoption of the so-called ESC Protocol to the Council of State. This concerns the complaint law protocol to the IVESCR signed by the Netherlands in 2009. The Council of State was asked to pay particular attention to the possible impact of that protocol on the Dutch legal order. That advice has now been received by my colleagues and the cabinet will come back to it after the summer. This was my last point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u71	Mrs. Strik, like a little hare?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u72	A small, fast hare. Did I get it right? I didn't hear the Minister right when he said what was "especially" asked the Council of State. I know that it was agreed here with the Chamber that the Council of State would also be asked about the other two protocols. Was that what you said?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u73	No, I said 'to pay particular attention to the possible impact of the protocol on the Dutch legal order', but I can tell you that after the summer you will also hear more about the progress of the other two protocols, if you come back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u74	Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u75	Thank you. I'm suspending the meeting for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u76	The next item is the continuation of the policy debate on the state of the rule of law. I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u77	Thank you, Madam President. It's a great privilege to be here again in your house. Thank you for inviting us to this debate on the rule of law. If there is one place in this country where rule of law takes on a concrete form, it is this Chamber. I look forward to the exchange of views with your Members. In any case, the contributions were an excellent start in the first period. Mr President, I can see the following. Before going into the questions raised by your Members, I would like to explain briefly how I view the rule of law. In doing so, I will address a number of major challenges and challenges that I see and experience in my task of monitoring and further strengthening the rule of law. I will then pass on all the questions and themes raised by your Chamber. Madam President, our rule of law is based on a number of centuries-old core values. Take the principle of legality. People are basically free. The only limitation to that freedom is the rules and laws that we have democratically adopted. I call the separation of powers: strength and counterpower, with balance as a result. Fundamental rights are guaranteed in our rule of law. These fundamental rights give citizens, inter alia, the right to equal treatment, the protection of their privacy, freedom of faith and freedom of expression. Of course I am talking about legal protection, and then I come to my specific domain. Independent judges are entitled on the basis of laws, treaties and previous judgments. They protect citizens' rights by settling disputes between citizens or between citizens and public authorities on the application and interpretation of laws and rules. Our rule of law is in good shape and that translates into an unprecedented degree of individual freedom. We live in a country where people can fall in love with whom they want, where they can follow their dreams, where they can go and stand wherever they want and say what they find. We all consider that to be so normal and self-evident that we have virtually lost sight of it. But look at countries, not even so far away, where the rights of homosexuals, women, journalists and artists are not guaranteed and where people who carry out things that are displeasure to those in power sometimes end up behind bars for a long time without trial. Then we are lucky to live in the Netherlands. With that luck, it's fine. Showed CBS last week. Of course, material prosperity also plays a major role in this, but I dare say that the rule of law is a very important pillar here too. Our economy benefits from stability, predictability and security. That is exactly what the rule of law offers. With clear laws and rules, citizens and businesses know where they stand. It is a deeply anchored standard that agreements are respected. It creates an environment in which entrepreneurs dare to invest and innovate, for centuries. It has made the Netherlands one of the richest countries in the world. To sum up, our well-being and prosperity are rooted in our rule of law. I liked what was said about it in the first place, namely that it is perhaps part of what makes us, of our identity. So it is also important to pass this on to future generations. This is something that I have been committed to in a previous life and which is now on the plate of my colleague Mr Slob. But we can't count ourselves rich. At least I don't tend to do that myself. It is part of my mission as Minister for Legal Protection to regard trust in the rule of law as intrinsically fragile property. The balance between the powers is precarious and very much depends on trust, in each other, in our system, in the institutions. Many of you have already said that the home of the rule of law requires permanent maintenance. Like the Minister of Justice and Security earlier today, I too would like to refer to the words of Willem Witteveen. He said that a vital rule of law is based on "a broad middle class of people." Of course, we must look at the gap between rich and poor, and we must ensure that we have good legal aid for those who are less wealthy and less well-off. But I do like that Witteveen also called attention to that broad middle class, the people who have to bear the rule of law. Their trust in the rule of law must also remain high. In order to maintain that confidence in the rule of law, I see three main concerns. The first point is that we need to make the rule of law more consistent with people's sense of justice. Sometimes there is doubt about the rule of law and the extent to which we all manage to ensure that things are done fairly in practice. A common complaint: ordinary people carry the burden, but do not enjoy the pleasure. They feel obstructed by rules and, at the same time, they see others taking advantage of their rights. They have to pay their traffic fines and tax returns, while others live outly on a criminal earning fortune. They see people reject our rule of law and fundamental freedoms and seem effortlessly move to justice in one movement to claim their rights under the same rule of law. This question of our rule of law affects confidence in our institutions and in each other. In a broader sense, this is a balance between fundamental rights and freedoms and their limits. The exercise of fundamental rights is not unlimited. Freedom of association, for example, ends where systematic harassment of non-members begins. That is, among other things, what the current debate on banning motorcycle gangs is all about. Another example is the financing of religious communities. Faith is free in our country and everyone can give money to what they want. But if preaching is financed from an unfree country that calls for our rule of law to be undermined, a border will be crossed in my view. Any abuse of fundamental rights guaranteed by the rule of law in order to undermine and undermine that same rule of law or to deny others fundamental rights must be dealt with in the exercise of rights. Then that needs to be looked at critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u78	The Minister says that a limit is crossed when sermons are sponsored from non-free countries, let me sum it up. What's he gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u79	I wanted to outline where freedoms begin and where everyone can make use of them, but also where we draw borders. For example, the assignment I received from the government agreement is to see where the right to association ends when it comes to criminal motorcycle gangs, but also when it comes to anti-democratic organisations and religious organisations. I refer, for example, to the amendment of Article 220 of the Civil Code by appealing to public order. We also look at what we can do to make funding from abroad more transparent and, where possible, to limit it. I have recently sent a letter to the House of Representatives about this with a number of concrete steps in it. As complicated as it may be, I think that we, as a cabinet, are now taking steps in a certain direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u80	It is easy to say: we are crossing a border, but the practice is, of course, uncomfortable. Perhaps you can explain the steps you have announced here in a few sentences. I do not think these steps are very large, but I would like to be persuaded otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u81	There are two things that my colleague Koolmees and I have proposed. The first is: make the flow of money more transparent and transparent. This can be done, for example, by asking for much more openness in the annual report on donations received, as we do with political parties and organisations with an anbi-status. I think that's a first step. That might be the easiest step. The second thing you can do is introduce restrictions. It's more complicated than that. I'll admit that immediately. My colleague Koolmees and colleague Asscher have looked into what you can do there. We have some ideas about that, but they're still early. Next week or the following week, a debate is planned with the House of Representatives to discuss this further. You could look at agreements with countries or risk-driven things. In any case, it is the intention of this cabinet to take a number of steps here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u82	Finally, on this point. The conclusion is that it's all fragile and very thin. They have to write down where the money comes from. Well, there's money coming from Kuwait. Yeah, okay, so what? We just need to make sure those hate stories aren't kept. You're gonna have to deal with that. Then you can tackle evil at the root much more concretely. These measures, as I hear them now, are not going to make a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u83	I think we will be able to discuss this in detail if the legislation passes through this Chamber. I would like to focus on my second point, the social effectiveness of justice. In my view, there are serious threats lurking there. Judicial decisions do not always lead to real solutions to the problems that people experience. In some cases, these problems are even aggravated. Judges regularly encounter the same debtors who cannot pay their accounts in debt collection proceedings. With the umpteenth judgment, the creditor may have a title to collect his claim and then may have spoken the right, but the underlying debt problem of the counterparty is only aggravated in these cases. In divorce cases, it is common for the parties to return to court for partial problems relating to maintenance or conversion, because a previous decision has not sufficiently resolved the conflict. Needless to say, justice often leads to lingering things that make no one happier. Procedures that take too long affect the sense of justice. In addition, legal proceedings are often so complex that people and businesses no longer see the forest through the trees. The case law itself also recognises these problems and that is why I work together with the case law to increase social effectiveness, looking at elements such as solution orientation, speed, simplicity and efficiency. With experiments, we want to enable the courts to see experimentally what does and what doesn't work, for example with a neighbourhood judge, a debt judge, with judges who get the room to judge over different jurisdictions. Last month, the bill went into consultation that creates more space and flexibility for innovation and experimentation. Lessons can be learned from these experiments in order to make structural improvements in the justice system when you draw those lessons. Mrs. Vlietstra asked if there was a need to innovate. I can be brief about that. The answer is yes. I will give this a little more thought later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u84	I hear the Minister say that he will be giving more thought to this later. Maybe that's what he's doing about this. I had asked what the level of ambition is to achieve this cabinet period. There's a bill now with the Council of State. What does that provide for in terms of planning and the time frame for learning lessons from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u85	I will be giving more detailed consideration to what we are doing in terms of socially effective justice. If it's okay with you, I'll take it with me. I certainly have an answer to that question. In my introduction, I can briefly dwell on my third point: modernisation. Technological developments in the world around us offer enormous opportunities, including in the area of justice. For example, we can see that in the event of changes due to DIY platforms and programmes that bring supply and demand together. There is smart software that generates contracts and there are search programs that search evidence a thousand times faster than lawyers and judges can. There are alternatives to court proceedings, for example in divorce cases. All positive developments. The cabinet is in the process of formulating a more comprehensive strategy on the digitisation of society. What exactly does digitalisation and technological development mean and how can we support that government-wide? We are looking at the opportunities, but certainly the ethical aspects and dilemmas are also part of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u86	Do these include the issues raised in my group's first term, such as the growing interlinkage between man and machine and his environment, the influence of algorithms, the freedom of information and the freedom of choice of information? Are they included in those investigations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u87	Yes, and I will come back to this point very extensively when it comes to the digital transformation and what is going on, both in the Netherlands and in Brussels. Take, for example, the GDPR that starts this week, but that doesn't end there. There are a number of developments that I would like to catch up on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u88	The Minister will undoubtedly come back to that, but I am already very curious whether he can announce at what time that vision can be expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u89	I'm guessing it's coming before the summer. I already mentioned the ethical aspects. I think it is important to always outline the opportunities in these developments. I'm sure there are. I am not gloomy, but there are often dilemmas about ethical issues. Take privacy, for example. Where the debate on privacy used to be mainly about how to protect people from an overly intrusive government, you see the discussion tilting more and more. This is about what is called horizontal privacy: how can we better protect citizens' data from interference by other citizens or manipulation by large companies? That is why I shall dwell on it in greater detail later. The recent events around, for example, Facebook and the use of data by Cambridge Analytica illustrate at least the importance of the tightening up of European privacy legislation that is coming into force this week. But even if I look a little further at the huge flight that takes speech and facial recognition for example, I think we should soon take some extra steps. Each and every one of these three points of attention and challenges call for good and open discussion both in width and depth. In doing so, we must always ask ourselves how we can strengthen our support for the rule of law. So I look forward to the debate we are having today. Let me now turn to the questions that have been asked. I've arranged it along three major themes. I would like to begin with all the critical questions that have been asked about the organisation of justice. Think of themes such as KEI, finance, judicial card review, workload and finally the new ways of working, the space that justice takes to innovate. The second major issue concerns access to justice, at least dealing with legal aid and registry rights. Thirdly, I would like to focus on everything that has to do with technological developments and modernisation. Mrs Duthler and Mrs Strik have asked a lot of questions about this, including e-Court as a development that I share with some of the questions and concerns. Then I have one more question under "other" because I couldn't place it anywhere else. Mr. Chairman. Many of you have paid attention to justice today, and that is not surprising, because justice is one of the pillars of our rule of law. Now justice is often portrayed as a stable factor in a dynamic world, as a conservative institution that ignores the delusion of the day, but frankly, that image does not reflect the changes that are taking place in the case-law. And certainly not the need for the rule of law to go along with time, adapt to people's changing needs, and go along with trends such as digitalisation of society. In general, we can see that Dutch justice is one of the world's top and that people's confidence in justice is high. These are facts and we should be proud of them, but they do not say that justice is a quiet property. Much must be done to keep justice at the top in the future. In view of the problems which I too see in the case-law, the urgency of this is high. One of these problems is digitisation. Many comments have been made and questions asked about KEI, the programme governing the digitisation of justice. That is understandable because the digitisation, the KEI project, has run differently than planned and hoped. As part of the KEI legislative proposals, you have held the debate with my ministers on digitisation. In your Chamber, critical noises sounded, for example, about whether justice remains sufficiently accessible to people who are not digitally skilled, but also about whether more time should be allocated for responsible entry into force. Let me get some facts straight first. The Ministry and the judiciary both launched a KEI programme in 2013, focusing on administrative law and civil law. The Ministry's programme was intended to adapt the legislation. The programme of justice developed the digital systems to simplify and harmonise processes. In order to develop legislation, there has been close cooperation between the judiciary and the ministry. Once the legislation has been adopted, this cooperation has become looser, more remote, as usual in business matters. Surely a subject such as justice is also primarily the responsibility of the case-law. With the start of the programme in 2013, the board had a global business case prepared. The estimated cost was 60 million. At the end of 2014, The Boston Consulting Group re-evaluated it, and BCG came out at 200 million. That was not simply a cost increase, as is sometimes suggested. The increase was explained by the better picture of what was needed at the time and by the fact that other parts of the digitisation were housed. In the long term, KEI was expected to deliver significant benefits, enabling a state-wide mission to be completed from 2017. 205 million has been spent in the meantime, according to the annual report of the Court of Justice. Slightly less than 100 million has been spent on IT development, and over 100 million is in training, digital court cases, which thus also concerns real physical adjustment and reorganisations and reserves for redundancies of personnel. According to the 2014 business case, the entire programme should have been implemented by 200 million. That is certainly not the case, but that does not mean that it is all wasted money. According to the Council, IT investments are divided as follows: 40 million Civilian, 40 million Administration, 10 million Supervision and 10 million Punishment. Good results have been achieved at Monitoring and Punishment. At the Board of Directors, national digital proceedings are conducted in asylum and detention matters. At Civil, a pilot runs with two courts and the national rollout may take place later this year. The funds for training, digital courtrooms and reorganisation cannot be said to be a disinvestment either. The fact is, however, that for large parts of civil and administrative law, which is what it has all been about, but limited results have been achieved. While 80 million has already been invested in IT development, significant investments will still be needed to complete digitalisation. The level of this is not yet known, but it is clear that it will increase considerably on the cost side. So there is not only a benefit problem, which was booked, but certainly also a cost problem. When the first phase of KEI legislation entered into force, there were some folds. The system was slow and it was unclear whether it would not become much slower in large quantities, which was called the "performance problem."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u90	I have written along with the cost allocation of the 100 million that has now been spent on IT, and what is now working and what is not. I also hear the Minister say that he has no idea how much more costs are to be incurred. Can the Minister also indicate a certain range of these? Does he expect to have to invest double, or does he really have no idea? Can't he give a certain feeling to the Chamber? I know it's tricky, money and feeling, but still, I want us to get a little insight into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u91	I can't do that, and I don't want to do that. This has to do with the Council's lack of clarity in the case-law. But I don't want to do it either, because this kind of IT project often shows that it's very difficult to make that kind of estimate, even if you've already studied it extensively and had it objectified. And that is a bit evident from the past. If I mention such an amount, it may also lead a life of its own. I would rather come back to your Chamber together with the Council of Justice to tell you how we intend to deal with it, and that we can talk about it in concrete terms, rather than speculating about that kind of amount. This could mean that the proposed approach would be a little different, a little less grand and compelling, but a little more in small projects, but then we also know what the financial problem is attached to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u92	When we talk about costs, of course, the next question is what is actually causing the cost of the current project to get out of hand. Does the Minister have any idea about this, other than the reports that my group mentioned? What's the real cause now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u93	That's what the reports provide for. I am thinking, for example, of the latest report from the review committee. Of course, it has had to do its job in a very short time, but it has also used previous reports. Then you see some things. It's also that you find this: a big ICT project from before the Elias era, so to speak, when it was all very big and very ambitious. There's been risks. The second is that the ambition of the beginning has shifted over time, and also the commitment from the organization. That was linked to the sacrifices that had to be made. The standardisation of work processes, for example, has also gone a little further than anticipated. In addition, the architecture was insufficient. So that's a real shame. I could give you a summary of the reports, but when I got them on my desk, I was shocked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u94	I hear the Minister mention that the ambitions were sky high, if I may translate it that way. Does that mean that the Minister or the Council of Ministers has now changed their ambitions for justice? What does that mean for the original ambitions and what will happen now? That standardisation of the work processes was, I suppose, intended to carry out that efficiency impact. Those are the cuts that have already been made, but have yet to be achieved. Are these efficiency impacts due to the non-standardization of the work processes now out of the way? Are they not being implemented at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u95	I don't want to say they're off the job. It would be reasonable for the Council to give a ruling on the matter before the Court of Justice. I believe that it is still the ambition to achieve this, but they will not be achieved at the deadlines that have been taken into account in previous estimates. If the benefits occur to the extent hoped for, they are likely to occur later. The second question focuses more on the renewed approach. Of this, the two reports, both the December report and the more recent March report, say: cut it up into more manageable pieces and reset the program. They are recommendations that have already been embraced by the Council for Justice. I think that is sensible and it makes sense to me. My only point is that, in the Council's answer to the case law itself, I still saw reason to see whether some of the basic conditions are in order. You read between the lines that there are still discussions between the Council of Justice and the Presidents of the courts about exactly where the real pain is, what is the precise problem analysis and who is going to draw it. I don't think that's a good basis to start now. A part that the review board has not looked at is the humanization: if this is picked up and started again, are the good people there to make it a success? I want to make sure of that before we give the green light again. The third point concerns a clear decision-making and governance structure. That's where it was wrong too. I believe, especially in such complex matters, that all these courts should ultimately not only accept an ICT system, but also be prepared to adapt their work processes to it. You can't digitize 15 different work processes. This also requires adjustments in the working methods. It requires commitment, but also perseverance when it is said at some point: we have talked about this for a very long time and now we are going to do so. Then who's gonna make a decision? I believe that this should be more clearly invested than is currently the case. For me, these are the three key points, the three basic conditions that I am now saying: be on the spot. We're not stopping the project. With digitalization, the question is not whether to do it, but how to do it. We really have to move on. There is also a real need for justice. I do not want us to stand here again in a year's time and say: there was then a critical report, we went through quickly and now we are experiencing problems again. This is really the time to make a pass on the spot and take a good and thorough look at it before we take a next step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u96	This process has been going on for several years, as the Minister himself said. Who exactly supervised that process? Somehow things got really out of hand. That can't have happened overnight, can it? We are now at the end of a situation which is extremely unsatisfactory for all parties. Who supervised and how could things get so out of hand? The Minister says that it was a very big challenge, that the governance structure is very complicated, that it is too easy to estimate and that these work processes are extremely complex. When you talk about such a project, these are the first things that you know are very complex and take a lot of time. Then how come we only think afterwards: well, it was all much more complex than we thought? There have also been other ICT projects from the government where you encounter the same thing. Then there's my last question. I now have a letter in my hands from the Minister which deals with KEI's situation. He mentioned three important points. Point one is noses the same way. Point two is the right people in the right place and point three is clear control and governance. I can well imagine that these are important things, but I read in the same direction, for example, in noses, that there is a need for a different approach, a new approach, because there is a need for a different culture of cooperation in justice, a culture of trust and cooperation aimed at a common goal. Wasn't there a culture of trust, wasn't there a common goal? I guess that's what's supposed to happen now. How's the Minister gonna do that? If there are no such things, especially if we have already done such a journey, it does not seem easy to me to get the noses in the same direction. I'm very curious about the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u97	A lot of questions. When did we see this go wrong? I received a progress report from the council in January, which sounded the alarm bell to me. Earlier, I and my predecessors had received no information that there were such fundamental problems with the basis, the construction plan and the operation of the system. We started a number of things back then. I insisted that there should be a thorough review. I think you've all received the report from the review board, which, in my view, puts the finger on the painful spot. Who was supposed to see to it? That is, of course, the Council of Justice itself at first instance. It drew this ICT project and it is also responsible for it. Because in my view ICT is more on the business side of the judiciary, I believe that there is also a role for my ministry. Of this, the report also states in its own bosom that, after the legislation around KEI was finalized, it was said, on the basis of the idea of the independent judiciary, that the judiciary should do so mainly on its own. That is why I said that because this is also about public money and large public interests, I think it is right for the ministry to be more on top of it, if I am more on top of it. I want to be able to take responsibility for this, but that also means that I will ask the courts to report more often and to inform me more about how things are going. I would also like to discuss with them that, for example, the checks that are being built in and which apply to many other government organisations, such as the BIT tests, will also apply to the case law. In the meantime, they want that, too, so that's good. We will structure this all more. Then there's the third question. I'm just looking at Mrs. Van Bijsterveld, because she slipped my mind. If you could just give me a hand with where that third question went... I think that is the forward-looking question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u98	In the meantime, Mrs Vlietstra is going to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u99	Let me take back the Minister's comments on costs and benefits. I understand that he does not have the courage to mention estimates of what is going to cost him and all of us, but I have heard him say that the benefits are disappointing, that the costs are disappointing and that adding up probably leads to large amounts. One thing is clear, namely that justice itself has no means of doing so. I would very much like to hear from the Minister how he intends to finance these financial failures plus the additional amounts needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u100	Mrs Vlietstra's question is based on the assumption that the case law itself does not have the means to do so. I don't know if that's true. I will say a few words about it later and also about the finances. The case law itself has been responsible for this great process. On all these kinds of trajectories, you have setbacks. You'll be responsible for dealing with these setbacks within your organization. Of course there's always a good conversation with me, if there's really things that can't be done. But I have now agreed that it is necessary to make it clear how much money is involved and where there is room elsewhere in the organisation. These conversations are ongoing, but they are not yet so concrete that I can give you a concrete number or I can tell you exactly where we are going to find that money. In the meantime, I know what Mrs Van Bijsterveld's question was. It was about cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u101	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u102	Tom Rodrigues and the experts who wrote that review indicate that it has become huge in that collaboration. This is also reflected in the reply recently sent to me by the Council in the case-law field, that the Council's analysis of the case-law and the analysis of the Presidents are also questioned in the discussion of the report. That over and over again, I am fine with that happening, but as far as I am concerned we are not going to continue until all those parties are on the same page. If you want such a complex and large ICT project to succeed, it does not help if there is disagreement between the board, which has an important steering and coordinating function, and the courts, which, of course, have to do the substantive work and implement it. Then it's doomed to fail. I have therefore instructed the Council of Justice to sit down: I would be happy to play a role in it myself, but you need to work more closely together on what the level of ambition is, what the substantive steps you want to take with that ICT project and how you want to proceed with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u103	One of my predecessors has just asked about the monitoring of the KEI project in those years. Just for the record, it started six years ago. Fortunately, we have a very good Registry here in this Chamber and it has supported us with all the documents on the KEI project that we have received in the last six years. One of the things that emerges from these files is that from the outset there has been very intensive cooperation between the Minister and the Council for Justice. It was very intense. We have also received many letters from the Minister in response to questions from both the House of Representatives and us, about the situation. We all got answers from the Minister: things are going well, things are not going well, things are going well. That was a lot of reassuring messages. If I now hear the Minister say that it became clear to him in January of this year that it went wrong, I think: in the five years before, you were also aware. You were aware of everything. You knew everything as a minister. The Ministry was fully aware of the state of play. You even wrote about it to us and to the House of Representatives. How can you say I didn't know? I think you've just been on top of it for five years. You may or may not have informed us correctly whether you yourself have been told false things, but you are fully involved. I find it a little weak of you if you are now trying to wipe your ass and blame the Council for the case-law. You've worked with the board up to and including. One of the major problems of the case law is that the Council of Justice is working so closely with the Minister and on the leadership of the Ministry. Please explain to me what you did for five years when you wrote to us about KEI's progress. How could you write these letters if you now said: I did not know about the disastrous situation until January? You've been getting all the information there was all these years. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u104	Apart from the fact that I wasn't in this place five years ago...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u105	That is the indivisible nature of the ministerial post.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u106	I know. Sure, but I also felt some direct contact with the person in my direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u107	No, it's the job. Let's stick to the job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u108	I like that. I checked it myself. Of course, your room has been updated and informed at regular intervals, and has had a pack of paper from us. So it's not like nothing happened. But when I look at the progress reports, I can't narrow down the picture that has emerged over the past few months to what was in those previous progress reports. The fact that something was so fundamentally and fundamentally wrong was for me, also on the basis of what my predecessors in the post I have now held have told you in all those previous progress reports, a fundamentally different tone and a fundamentally different message than before. I think I can sum it up in that sense, after which I will answer a number of questions in the area of digitalisation that there is great cause for concern, that digitisation does not stop and that we have to continue, but that we have to do so in a responsible way and that there is still a lot of work to be done before that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u109	Then Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u110	I would like to thank the Minister for the enlightening answer on how that process went. What worries me is that it is only at a late stage in the process that these serious conclusions must be drawn by the Minister. How does he prevent us from finding out at a late stage in the progress of this major project that the changes are not in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u111	In the final paragraph of the letter I sent you, I also said something about my own role in this whole: that I want to be more on top of it. I think that is possible because it does not touch on the substantive assessment in individual cases, on what you say the independence of the judiciary should really be guaranteed. I think I can take on that role. If you want more supervision, that requires greater accountability from the person you supervise. This will mean that the independent justice system must also consult more often about the situation and that, if there is any uncertainty about it, the gauge will also be used in conjunction. I think that's justified. I do not believe that the integrity of the judiciary is affected, but I do see that this is also the subject of discussion. It's two-and-a-half. Or you leave it all alone, when you talk about the independence of the judiciary, all there, but then you also limit your supervision of it. That has its advantages, but also the disadvantage in the debates we have in the Chamber that I sometimes find out. Or you structure it and say, "We're gonna supervise that sort of thing." We can afford that. You can call me on that, then. But that also means that I sometimes step on the brake, as I did recently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u112	Further to the Minister's reply just now, I am not reassured. I'm talking about your answer to my question, Minister. It seems as if you are placing the responsibility for the debacle quite unilaterally in the case law, including the financial consequences. At the same time, I have heard you say, at least, that you said so in the House of Representatives that the bottom of the equalization reserve is in sight and that this should therefore be discussed in the spring note. So I'd like a reaction to that. I would also like to ask you whether you would consider it justified if the case law were to go back to austerity, which could lead to further deterioration of access to justice, to higher registry rights, to even less minutes to deal with cases, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u113	That is very pre-emptive of things that I cannot yet give an answer to. That first requires something from the judiciary. Yes, I think they are primarily responsible for managing such a large ICT project. That was their job, they led the people and they coordinated the process. I may think afterwards that we from the Ministry and from my position I should have just seen to it a little more closely. I can explain why things turned out the way they did. That is also because the judiciary has a special position in our constitutional system, but that aside. When it comes to how much it costs, what the financial problems are, and when the estimated benefits do occur, the Council will really have to get that out of court. That's what they're working on right now. That is, first of all, the extent of the financial problem. The second is that I also said to the Council for Justice: you have caused a problem and then the primary responsibility to solve it lies with yourselves and if you really run into the impossible, come by. With me, a conversation is always possible, but it can't be that every setback is passed on to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u114	Mrs Vlietstra, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u115	Can the Minister at least tell me when that clarity will come? Because it's not just a setback. It is about large sums of money, and if they are to be coughed up by the case law itself, this can lead to far-reaching qualitative consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u116	That can be done, but we should not anticipate that either. I'll come back to you with that in the fall. In fact, I think that we will hopefully have more insight into KEI and, if necessary, the additional costs involved, as well as into the screening exercise. I have agreed with the Council on the question of judicial review. I think they really should take a critical look at their own organisation and where they see space. By then, we will know what the financial frameworks are. I'll inform you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u117	Of course, this is not a problem caused by a profession. It is quite clear that a lot of similar digitisation projects go wrong, including government projects, and it is so important that we learn from them. I see here at least three aspects which could also be found elsewhere and which have proved to have led to failures here. I would like to mention, for example, that the savings have already been made in advance, so that people may even have been fired even though their job was still badly needed. In any case, the organization came under pressure. I call it the work had to be done next to it. I think you should actually include digitisation projects with additional capacity so that the normal work can continue. That didn't happen here either. And I also mention that I can remember vividly that we have advocated a longer-term implementation here, also at the pressure of practice. So we argued that we should not introduce too quickly. There was absolutely no discussion of this at the time, and it was also very reassuring to say: that is not necessary at all, because the time is sufficient. These three aspects alone are, of course, quite universal. Are these points where the Ministry is taking lessons to ensure that other digitalisation projects, and possibly a future KEI, really take a fundamentally different approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u118	The answer to that is yes. I don't like to say it, but I also thought when reading those reports: I've read and heard this story before with organization x, organization y, organization z. There is perhaps the somewhat mitigating circumstance that KEI was, of course, already in motion before the Elias report was published on the other side, in which that analysis was also set out very sharply. The Elias Commission also said: we need to build some guarantees for large ICT projects within the government. But I did have some sort of déjà vu here and there. So, yeah, that's where we draw. That's where the ministry draws lessons.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u119	I would ask, however, to be clear, whether I hear the Minister say that the responsibility for the failure of the KEI project has so far been really with the Council of Justice, and not with the Ministry. Two. I hear, a little after the answer to Mr Ruers' question, that it is always said: the reports we have received were all promising. Does that mean, in the view of the Minister, that the Ministry really thought it was all good, and so it turned out to be not good at all? I ask this because on the one hand it seems clear what the Minister is saying, namely that it is the way I am asking the Minister, but on the other hand I hear the Minister always saying the word 'primary'. "Primary" it is here and "primary" it is there. That can also mean anything. So I would like to hear a clear response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u120	Then Mr. Ruers also wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u121	I hear the Minister say: yes, we didn't know about the Elias Commission when KEI started. I looked it up: there are a few months between the moment the report from the Elias Committee came out and the moment KEI started. So you could have known after a few months that it was "all hands on deck." I didn't see anything that you responded to. I would also point out once again that in 2015, for example, the judiciary, not the Council for Justice, but the judiciary, said: KEI is not going, it is not working, it is failing! How did you react as a minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u122	I must, of course, construct this partly on the basis of paper and conversations I have with people; I hope that Mr Ruers understands that. When I turn the film back like this, I notice that KEI was actually already a moving train when Elias came. Should that have led to or could it have led to a change of direction? Yeah, maybe so, but then it was thought: we're gonna go through with that and we're gonna try to control that. I also note that during the course there were reports that indicated: things are not going well here and things are not going well there. But there's not much to act on. And I also note that Mr Van Bijsterveld, and with that I am also moving towards what Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked me to do, that the provision of information to my ministry has not always been optimal. What exactly is the situation? I say immediately that the fact that information has not always been optimal has also had to do with the following. I think if it had been a major ICT project at the prison system or the police, it would have been different. This has to do with the special position of the judiciary. It has also been said that it is independent, and that is something we must do ourselves, and we do not want to interfere too much. I am not saying that now to justify it, and I also think that this should be changed in the future. I also think that more involvement and supervision of this kind of thing, because it concerns business processes, does not necessarily have to affect the independence of the judiciary. But it does explain how things turned out the way they did in the past. And I am not concerned about whose fault it has been, because we are now simply dealing with an ICT project on which I do not want to say that it has completely failed, but that there are a number of things that are really not as good as planned, with all the problems that have arisen. This leads to financial problems, but also to problems and great uncertainty for a lot of people in the organisation and for a lot of stakeholders around it. Lawyers have made investments that they cannot benefit from now because justice is not yet ready. So that's just really not good. I'm looking at the future: how can we get this back on track? Conditions for taking steps are: is there commitment within the entire organisation; are all noses in the same direction; are there the good people; are there good agreements about governance? These conditions are not yet sufficiently in order to say to them with peace of mind: yes, that is how it is going to work. And I don't want to come back to you in a year's time with a story where I say that we have gone through quickly and do not want to waste time, but that we do not tackle the fundamental problem sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u123	What makes the Minister still believe in a KEI project, although executed differently, but ultimately in continuing this KEI project? Maybe it's a little lame, but I took those Elias recommendations. One of the recommendations is that, of course, the risks must be identified and risk measures taken, but it is also very clear: and eliminate them in advance. After this debate, I would like to get the feeling that we are not going to muddle, but that things are being dealt with differently in a structural manner and that we really have a real view of a really good result of KEI. I'd really like to hear why we shouldn't just stop and start over, instead of really going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u124	Mrs Duthler and I both want the same thing. We note that it is stuck and that there are major problems. We want if we start that up again and if we continue, we'll have more certainty and more solid ground under our feet, and the chances of success this time will be greater. I'm never gonna give guarantees at the front, but I want to have the feeling at the front that this could work. I say we move on. I mean that, in my view, the question should not be whether or not we are going to digitize. The judiciary, too, must take that step and cannot continue to work with pen and paper forever. So the question is how digitization takes place. And if we have to stop doing this and start something completely new, I'm fine with that. I also think it is good if we say: with a few parts we stop and with a number of other parts we go on, or we break it up into manageable pieces and we start with the most urgent matters. I think it's all negotiable, but I don't think non-digitalization is an option. So to the left or to the right, you're hanging on to a number of steps that need to be taken, including the costs and the huge organisational stroke that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u125	To get it very sharp: I can also hear the Minister say that when the conclusion is that we should stop and start again, that is a step he is going to take, if it really proves necessary. Because justice will not be the first organisation to take such a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u126	No. If it's really necessary because it's nothing at all and it's so screwed up that it's better to start all over again, that's the most rigorous step, with a huge capital destruction. But that is perhaps even better than going on the old path, which then becomes nothing in the end. When I read the reports that are now there, those are very critical reports, and I see that they do not say: stop the whole thing. They say: cut it into behavior parts; see what is most urgent and carry on with it. That sounds to me like a very sensible strategy. But if it turns out in the coming weeks and months that the foundation is even worse and that we need to take even more rigorous steps, then I am not running away from it. I mean, that would be stupid of myself, of course, because then the chances are that next year I will be standing here with a perhaps even more annoying message. So if we need to, we'll clean up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u127	This has been discussed extensively across the street. I would like to try to continue to look at it in the legal debate. We have now come to the conclusion that the KEI project has failed. I understood precisely from the Minister's introduction and also from the letters that part of it has been implemented. I could imagine that at that point the point of no return has been reached. Which is, and it goes on. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u128	Yes, a number of things are going well, like asylum matters. A number of parts are just standing and are finished. But there are also a number of others in development. Take on civil: we have to look critically at that to see if we can start that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u129	It is, of course, extremely painful to read that a different ICT system should be used for civil two years. Anyway, then it's up to us whether or not we go through with it. How that is financed, I would like to leave it on the other side, including all the discussions on the Spring note and the budget. The Minister says: if we continue, it must be brought up by the justice system itself. You have written a letter about this, in which the real words of the Hague are written as'strong challenges'. Well, justice can't afford it; we already know that. You say that you understand the negotiations with the Council for Justice, with your colleagues in the cabinet and so on, but for my group the constitutional point is here: if it depends on funding because it has to come out of justice, I think we should have a completely different discussion at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u130	I hear what Mr Backer is saying. I am going to give a more detailed account of the financial aspects, because of course they are very closely linked with them. But I do not share with him the firm conclusion he draws that justice could not do anything by itself. That is exactly what I mean by the sensible conversation: the door is never closed to me. But I think that any organization that would be in the care, in the police and in education would have to look at a solution first of all with a setback to which it is partly debited. That is also a treatment which the Finance Minister always gives me and my colleagues, and I think that is a very good starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u131	No one's questioning that. Only what I want to be careful about is that this is also linked to the nature of this debate and that we are going to impose it from a budgetary and financial point of view. That good conversation you are about to have must, of course, leave room for it, after everyone has shown their best endeavors, that if they cannot, they cannot and that other solutions must be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u132	I also agree with Mr Backer. But at some point that will ask for choices elsewhere. The budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security is not unlimited either and it is not that we are very spacious in our jacket. That is also what I learned from tradition, that there are quite a few other problems there. If you're gonna make an extra effort in justice, it's gonna have to come from somewhere else. If you made cabinet-wide agreements about that, the same would apply. You have a number of policy areas. You can raise taxes, but none of these are nice measures. Mr. Chairman. Before I move on to the finances, where something more plays than just KEI, the following. Mrs Duthler asked what KEI's planning is. In doing so, I make a distinction between parts that run and parts for which this does not yet apply. When it comes to claims above €25,000 with mandatory process representation, KEI legislation has entered into force in only pilot courts: Gelderland and Central Netherlands. Whether national entry into force is feasible will have to be clear by the summer. The further planning of digitisation of justice is not yet known. That depends on the conversations I make. I promised to come to the House of Representatives by 1 July. But you often receive copies of it from me. Mr. Backer asked where it pinched. Is the administration of justice in danger? Well, thank God that's not the case. It would have been much worse if we had started, but the systems would prove inadequate. The introduction of KEI legislation has therefore been phased out and surrounded by a number of safeguards. Legal guarantees will, of course, continue to apply in full. This can also be met in full in the current way, while digitalisation is lagging behind. Also with the financial problem, the rule of law is not at present in jeopardy. I'll make sure that doesn't happen. Finally, Mrs Baaij-Timmerman. She asked about incomprehension among citizens and less digital transmission. I indicated in the letter on the KEI problem that the case law cannot continue to work with paper for years. At the same time, we must continue to take into account those people who are less digitally skilled. For this reason, the digitisation of the judicial process has explicitly chosen not to make digital litigation mandatory for citizens. Other options remain possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u133	At the risk of missing it, but I had asked a question about the scope for justice to innovate, as KEI does a lot with the reserves and so on. In addition to the KEI event, there are, of course, more issues that require innovation from time to time. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u134	I'll get back to you on that. I'm gonna go into finance and innovation on everything, with neighborhood judges. In one of the hearings it was discussed that all of this costs extra money. I have these questions very clearly on the retina and I will give you an answer. Mr President, finance. You could say heavy weather. In 2017, the case law for the first time wrote red figures. Two main causes. One: the loss of the benefits that would be associated with KEI. Two: fall in the number of cases. I have looked again at the budgets and price agreements of recent years. They don't say everything, of course, because they are often the result of various pluses and minuses, but if you look at the price agreements, it shows that the targets from Balkenende IV and Rutte II have actually been lifted for various intensifications. On balance, I can say that the case-law in this respect has been spared from the state-wide cuts. As of 2013, the case law knew that a state-wide mission had been imposed, rising to 8,9%. It is a task imposed on all government organisations in a time of crisis. The caselaw is therefore not excluded, but has not been given an extra heavy task. For the consequences, the case-law was still compensated in the first years. It was only in 2017 that the case-law had to contribute. The caselaw has chosen to fill in part of the efficiency mission with the savings in management and largely to fill in with the benefits from KEI. These savings in business have been realised: 15 million, up to 21 million. There are still limited benefits from KEI. It's gonna be some time before higher benefits come out. This ultimately leads to a deficit of around 40 million in 2018. The decline in inflows also has an impact on the revenue of the case-law. Less business is less funding. This is difficult for the courts, because most of the costs are fixed costs that you cannot immediately adapt to a lower inflow. That also leads to friction costs. However, there is no doubt that the case law must move along if there is a falling inflow. The staff size should be adjusted accordingly. I have already said that for the coming years the budget of justice shows a deficit. Something must be done, but the solutions will not be easy. About 2017 and partly about 2018 the equalization reserve offers a solution. But the most important thing is that justice itself is also responsible for the management and matching of expenditure and revenue. That is precisely the reason why, in discussions with the Council of Ministers for Justice, I agreed that there should be a review to see whether I am saying 'or' in the direction of Mr Backer, because he has just made a point of order and, if so, where there are possibilities for the case-law to contribute itself to a solution to the financial problem. A comprehensive review will be carried out on behalf of the Judicial Council. This will focus on both the conduct of business and the primary process of the judicial process itself. I'm still talking to the board about the form and content. I expect that the results will not be available until the end of the year, i.e. in the second half of 2018. In addition, the Council has taken measures in the case-law to reduce costs as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u135	The Minister says, I think, quite rightly: as a result of the reduction in the number of cases, they have also suffered a certain loss. That is, of course, because of the system of output financing. The Minister says that this is difficult, as there are many fixed burdens that cannot simply be cut. That is, of course, one of the problems of the output financing system. Will the scrutiny that the Minister is talking about also give a critical look at how such an output financing system works in the judiciary? That seems appropriate to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u136	I don't think that's gonna happen, but we're gonna do that in parallel. It will be examined whether the financing system on parts is still working properly. A "PxQ" output financing has advantages and disadvantages. I myself have the impression that the judiciary still attaches great importance to it, because it is fair financing in that sense. If you do more business, you just get paid per case. But of course that applies both stairs and stairs. But as far as I'm concerned, that conversation is possible. For example, the case-law itself has argued that the ICT budget should not depend on uncertain inflow and settlement. I think this is very much in line with Mrs Strik. I can imagine. That is why we have asked a number of external experts to advise on the funding system. I expect that advice around the summer. Should that require adjustments, they can be included in the next round of price agreements, from 2020 to 2022, which will start negotiations in early 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u137	I'm glad to hear that. I therefore hope that the option of part of output financing will be considered if there is an increase in the number of cases, but that some kind of basic financing is still being considered, so that the fixed charges can be paid. I wonder whether we will also be informed about the results of that study.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u138	The answer to the last question is yes. Of course, you can always make combinations with fixed feet in the funding system. As far as I'm concerned, it's all not unspeakable. But also such systems have disadvantages, for example if you experience an enormous increase in the number of cases. Now it is true that your total volume grows along, but your fixed foot remains your fixed foot, also the standing foot. It is not surprising that every funding system has advantages but also inherently has a number of disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u139	I'd like to continue on the funding system. There is a discussion on whether or not the financing of justice should be part of the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security. The Minister knows that discussion, too. At the moment, the budget of justice is part of the budget of Justice and Security. If there is a deficit in the justice budget due to a wrong system or a mishandling of the consequences of KEI's financial failures, then I assume that this is not due to the case law, but to the budget of the Ministry of Justice in general, because the Minister ultimately remains responsible for this. Perhaps the Minister could go into that further. Is it correct that the costs are always met by the Ministry itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u140	Two things play a role there. If, at some point, equity falls into the minus, then we are obliged by law to purify it. On that point, Mrs Van Bijsterveld is right. Whether this is going to happen depends very much on the business influx that will be realized in 2019. We'll get back to that in the spring note. It's almost coming, but let's not get ahead of ourselves for purity. That's one. The second point is: would a separate budget for justice be helpful and better? There has recently been a debate on this on the other side on the basis of an initiative proposal by Mr Van Nispen of the Socialist Party. In the end, this initiative proposal did not succeed because a majority in the Lower House opposed it. We in the cabinet were somewhat critical, but the Council of State was also quite critical of the usefulness and necessity of such a construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u141	I am not in favour of this, and my group is certainly not in favour of taking the budget of justice out of the Ministry of Justice's budget. But if you have to come to the conclusion that, to the left or right, the budget of justice ultimately falls under the jurisdiction of Justice and Security, why is it so difficult to come up with a different system of financing? We all know that this funding system is simply not working properly. At the parole hearing, another one was chosen, a bit wider system. That, of course, also falls within the scope of Justice and Security. So why is there such a cramped system that everyone knows isn't working properly, whereas it is much better to opt for a realistic system where you leave room for sufficient time and quality in the justice system itself and where you don't have to call upon the broad budget of justice afterwards? If at the end of the day it is covered, why not, to start with, opt for a more realistic system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u142	I understand the point. You want to go to the best possible funding system. I am open to any improvements that are conceivable and possible. The case-law Council should do so if it says: we see that improvements can be made. That conversation's going on, too. We hope to give more clarity about that in the summer. Mrs Van Bijsterveld says that everyone sees that this is not a realistic funding system. However, I should like to comment on that. I do not know whether that statement is also shared by the case-law itself. Now it is the case that justice is paid for every case he runs. That's a big advantage, especially if you're dealing with an increase in the number of cases. That means you get an amount every time on a post-calculation basis. It also means that if you run less business...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u143	Finally, Mrs Van Bijsterveld, I would like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u144	...you'll be paid less for that. But it's a fair system. You can also switch to a lumpsum systematiek, which Mrs Van Bijsterveld referred to when she talked about having a job for the advisory part of the probation. So you're going to go to some kind of fixed, agreed amount. But then it is said to the parole board that they have to do everything in their power, whether they have more or less business. They're getting a lump sum, and that's not gonna change for a while. I'm sure that's gonna have disadvantages, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u145	Finally, Mrs Van Bijsterveld, I would like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u146	It is, of course, looking for a good system and then for good amounts that are counted within that system. I think that a minister who is not there for budgetary matters but for legal protection, on the contrary, would benefit greatly from having a good look at that. The current system is based on certain assumptions about simpler cases and more complex cases. The Minister also talked about all kinds of new experiments being carried out. As a result, you can see at a certain point that much simpler and easier things are either excluded from justice or simply eliminated. This means that only the more complex cases will ultimately be dealt with by the traditional courts. So we have to be careful that it isn't precisely because of...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u147	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u148	My question is whether the Minister will take this into account in the financing. After all, the more complex cases stay with the courts and then the system of financing works less well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u149	We will. We look at, for example, the matter of gravity every three years, because it can vary. But that also fits very well in a PxQ-systematiek. We then make agreements on different types of cases with different types of heaviness. Then you estimate how many that will be about on an annual basis. At the end of the year, you calculate how many of them have really been. If some things are reduced now, but more substantial in scope, then we are simply having a discussion with the Court of Justice. And we also have a whole system with hours writing and time writing, to really see if we can validate that properly. We'll take that point with us. On the financial front, I would like to answer a number of questions raised by Members. Firstly, Mr Backer asked for international comparisons. They can sometimes greatly help to position the Netherlands. How do we do on a number of cases? I will also comment on this later on the subject of legal aid. But if you look at the Justice Scoreboard, for example, how much money we put into the judiciary per head of the population, then the Netherlands is in sixth place. That is behind countries like Luxembourg and Great Britain, but for countries like Finland and Belgium. So that's not something to be ashamed of. Ms Baay-Timmerman asked about the budget for smaller digitization projects. I have just said something about the route we want to go around KEI. If there are even smaller digitization projects, I assume that the case law can solve them itself. Unless we take it into account in the larger financial picture that is currently being mapped out. Mrs Duthler asked what was sent in relation to the Franken motion adopted in 2014. It states that quality requirements should be the starting point for decisions on the financing of the judiciary. My predecessors replied to that in three separate letters to your Chamber, but I am still passing through the main lines. Here's how it works. The funding system now has the time a judge needs to take off a case as the most important starting point. The quality standard is used as a basis. In addition, following the Leeuwarder manifesto, the council had discussions with the courts. It has been established that the quality of the case-law is the starting point when administrative arrangements are made. The central budgets for supporting rural services are reduced as much as possible, in order to also make room for justice. Professional standards are introduced which should lead to a broad understanding of quality standards that work must meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u150	A brief question, Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u151	A very short question about the time a judge needs. At the expert meeting it was discussed that a judge for the purpose of writing a judgment in absentia has one minute and a Registrar has eight minutes. How serious is the funding on the basis of time a judge needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u152	Let me deal with the distribution of responsibilities. We agree at meta level with the Council on how much money is being provided for the total volume we estimate. We distinguish between different types of cases and different types of heaviness. We try to objectify this in advance as best we can by looking at how much treatment and time a case costs on average. Thus, there is no obligation on the courts to translate that one-on-one into the courts or into the departments and teams within the courts. Of course, it may very well be that one case is closed very quickly and the other one takes a lot more time, but on average it is quite convenient. That's why I can't quite place this. I know that one dish deals with it in a different way than the other. In any case, justice has the scope to deal with it much more flexibly. Of course you always have to steer, because you have to come to your total volume with the costs. But that you give to your judges that every case has to fit exactly within a particular booth with a certain amount of time, is not given from the Ministry. Mr. Chairman. I've already said something about KEI.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u153	May I ask how much longer you think you need, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u154	On its total or only on the financial part?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u155	No, no, in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u156	Well, then I'll be busy for a while. But maybe something can happen to the number of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u157	Then I am going to ask if Members would like to limit their interruptions and if you could give us a little bit of gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u158	Yes. I have one final point on finance. Ms Baay-Timmerman asked whether new legislation took sufficient account of its costs and the complexity and costs of its implementation. I do not entirely share the criticism that the implementation and financing consequences are not being addressed in the drafting of legislation. On the contrary, much attention is paid to this, including in the explanatory statement and in the description of new arrangements, and in my experience also in the discussions we have with the two Chambers. Especially in the First Chamber we regularly talk about the implementation aspects. It is my responsibility as Minister for the quality of legislation to provide frameworks in the preparation, for example the Integrated Weighting Framework, containing regulatory guidance and all that kind of testing. Let me give two brief examples. My colleague Grapperhaus and I are reviewing the Code of Criminal Procedure. Then we will also look very closely at what the consequences are for the implementation practice. And when we introduced the victim's right to speak, we did take into account what it would cost. It was suggested that this would not have been the case. However, in the 2017-2019 price agreement, an amount of 0.6 million was made structurally available and also in 2011-2013 price agreement, an amount of 0.4 million was already included structurally. So we'll take those things with us. The review of the court card. This is an issue to which this Chamber has paid a great deal of attention in the legislative process. The treatment in this Chamber then led to a novelle. Now there's an evaluation. The evaluation shows that some of the objectives have been achieved only to a limited extent. When the report was presented to me in December 2017, it was not yet known to me that structural and fundamental deficiencies had been detected in the digitisation process. They then came to light and made me take a different look at the findings of the Kummeling Committee. The evaluation report, of course, was not about KEI, but it does reveal what the recent report on KEI showed even more worrying and urgent: the management of justice needs to be strengthened and improved, the responsibilities should be clearly shared, more decisively organised and the risks not only to be identified, but also to be followed up by appropriate measures. I'm talking to the board about that. The role of my ministry is also discussed here. Mr Ruers asked in that context: if you look at the balance in the triad and at the way it was designed, with the Council of Justice, is there not a serious structural error? I am absolutely convinced that this was not the case. The independence of justice is one of the pillars on which our case law rests. This independence is also guaranteed in the Constitution and in the Law on the Judicial Organisation. It follows that politics must keep its distance from justice. This does not mean that politics should not interfere at all with the case law, such as the financing of justice, or other things relating to business processes, but the caricature that might perhaps have been sketched out as the extension of the ministry's jurisdiction, I really cannot place it. In fact, I am a little more in line with Mrs Duthler and a number of groups in the House of Representatives who have adopted a motion on this matter today. They say that you need to see how the Council of Justice can really be strengthened. Strengthening administrative power is an important starting point and focus of the evaluation. The Committee notes that there is scope for improvement in the use of the legal instruments available for cooperation between courts. The instruments relate only to the conduct of the courts and clearly do not refer to the content of the judicial work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u159	I hear the Minister say that the influence or influence of the Ministry on the Council of Justice has nothing to do with the content of the work. I thought that, with reference to all the sources, I made it clear that this is precisely the case, that the Ministry, through the Council, is precisely steering that route through the stock exchange, i.e. through the money, and that the judiciary and the judges themselves indicate this year in, year out. They find that they are forced by the Ministry's finances to conduct a procedure contrary to independent justice, so much so that the judges, who are the experts, are not even allowed to determine how long they will have to sit if they have to sit in a court of law. Why not? Because the Minister deals with financial matters through the Court of Justice. The Minister with his financial interests determines how the judge should ultimately work in his day-to-day work. Surely there is a link between the Minister and the final procedure of the judiciary? Isn't it true that the judiciary is no longer independent? I would like to hear from the Minister how he refutes my arguments that it is stated from all sides that the independence of the judiciary is no longer valid and no longer exists. I think that the Minister's answer on this point is actually far from satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u160	It's just not like we're from either the Ministry or I'm deciding how judges should proceed. I really want to take that away from here. That is not the case and it is factually incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u161	You don't tell Judge X, you have two minutes before that hearing and three minutes before that other hearing. No, you do not, but you decide by determining the finances you do by means of the Council of Justice acting as an intermediary, as a buffer, it was previously said that, in fact, the judge may only work for one minute or ten minutes on a case, while he himself, from his work and his profession, thinks that he needs an hour, for example. I have given the examples in detail. They're listed in all the documents. Then the Minister pretends it doesn't exist. How is that possible? Would you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u162	I have just explained in detail to Mrs Duthler that I do not decide how long a judge must work on a case. Mr Ruers says that in the end I will determine the overall budget for justice, and that is true. I am not doing this alone, I am doing it together with the Chamber, because budget law rests with the States-General. We, as politicians, indeed determine the budget with which the judiciary must operate. And of course, everything you do has to fit in there. This is also in line with our constitutional relationship. The Leemhuis Committee, which at the time advised on the establishment of the Council for Justice and then also considered a number of other models, said: in the end, the case law is not a kind of state in the state either. We are aware of the system of ministerial responsibility, in which the Minister of Justice, in this case the Minister for Legal Protection, is accountable to Parliament. Then it's a good thing you're building such an intermediate layer, such a council for justice there. That does not alter the fact that justice itself has the room to make incredibly many choices within it and that the influence by me or by my ministry at individual level is really absent. We want to avoid any appearance in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u163	Of course, the Ministry doesn't interfere with individual matters. I do not think that anyone assumes that, but we have heard a lot of compelling stories here about how it will ultimately work out in decision-making practice and the way the time pressure affects, including the quality and for the long time that people have to wait for legal certainty. Just now, the Minister established the link between quality and determining the time needed for business and that this would lead to the funding system. Is it not logical, then, that the Minister should sit at a slightly higher level of abstraction, for example in the examination of the funding, in order to really verify whether the quality is still leading, precisely to check whether the causal relationship between the reduction in quality or the extension of the duration which is finally a quality issue is the result of the funding system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u164	I'll do it at an appropriate distance. I would also like to say this: there is a debate on content in the first term versus efficiency and efficiency. But I also see speed and efficiency as part of quality. Your judgment may well be well-performed, but if a seeker has had to wait a very long time for that, or if it becomes so terribly expensive that you can no longer do a lot of other things like justice, then the quality is also relative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u165	I'd like to say something about that. It is precisely the judges who also indicate that they have problems with the fact that it takes so long for a ruling to be reached. That's because of the piles of work and the time pressure they're experiencing. So it's not a contradiction. I can see that the Minister is making some sort of contradiction between quality and speed, but the judges want speed and care. They relate precisely the long duration, which is very problematic, to the funding system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u166	I would like to discuss this with the Justice Council. It is not only the funding system, but also the way the money is used, the courts are governed and what agreements are made with individual teams and individual judges about how you deal with time and resources. I take these signals very seriously and I take them with me, because next year, of course, we will come back to the new negotiations on business prices to discuss the new round of prices. Mr President, two final questions on the revision of the judicial card. Mrs Baay-Timmerman and Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked whether the relocation of locations ensured that everyone still has access. The evaluation has not shown that, for example, there has been an increase in the number of absenteeties where courtrooms have been closed, so people could no longer come to the case. The evaluation committee does, however, recommend that further research be carried out in this direction in response to signals. I can promise you I'll do the same. The investigation is important because more smog may indicate the need for a more widespread supply of easily accessible justice. Finally, Mrs Duthler asked: how should I read the coalition agreement? She has to read it the way it says it. Existing courts and courts are in principle not closed. That's the starting point, you might say. I would like to point out that this is at least wider than the Oskam motion which was adopted at the time and saw specifically at seven sites of jurisdiction. There is no reason to close the courts now, but I have indicated that we should always look a bit along the lines of the revision of the judicial card where we want to judge precisely, partly in relation to some of the pilots we are going to run, for example with neighbourhood judges. I'm gonna move on to work pressure. This issue has also been raised by a number of you, and in particular Mrs Strik. It was one of the main concerns of a judicial survey in 2016. I also understand that it has been discussed many times at the expert meeting. Work pressure is a tough theme. It has been on the agenda for some time and has been examined by the Visitation Committee in 2017. He then found that it is not a generic problem, but that there is a peak load on some teams and that workload is experienced very differently, including within teams. Reducing the workload is part of the multi-annual plans that the judiciary is working with. In that context, regardless of timewriting and everything related to the funding system, which I believe we have discussed extensively, there are two further developments which I expect will reduce the workload. First of all, that is the introduction of professional standards. As a result, judges are given more time to deal with cases. With additional funds agreed in the price agreement, additional judges have been and are attracted, combined with the second development: the decline in the number of cases. Mrs Bikker asked about the work stocks. What is the situation and can they be reduced in the current system with the current frameworks? The pressure is high, of course, but I do see positive developments there. In recent years, for example, the courts of Amsterdam, Leeuwarden and Den Bosch have been lagging behind in the treatment of commercial matters. These courts have reduced the working stock in 2017 and are further reducing it in the current year 2018. For the courts, the working stock of business has decreased over the last three years. Those are other business areas; soil issues, not canton cases. A further acceleration will take place in 2018. The courts are not lagging behind in dealing with canton cases with the exception of administration of minors. Where excessive work stocks are present, analyses now reveal a temporary problem, such as an unforeseen increase or a temporary lack of capacity, which can be met with, for example, additional staffing or adaptation of work processes. Mr Backer asked whether the case law was still attractive enough. If you want to recruit extra people, what about working conditions and career prospects? I told you about professional standards. For this purpose, 167 FTE additional judges were recruited in 2017 compared to the previous year, combined with the reduction in the number of cases. Working conditions and career prospects for judges are, in my view, good. This must also be seen in the light of the naturally important task they perform. As regards, for example, the primary conditions of employment, I note that the inquiry commissioned by the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations into remuneration in the public sector vis-à-vis the market, which is always a good benchmark, shows that the judiciary is most highly rewarded and highly competitive in relation to the market within the national government categories. From my previous life, I remember that education was very behind in the market. Then there is the shortage of judges to which Mr Backer and Mrs Van Bijsterveld referred. Can't you do something with lawyers and judges' alternates? You can't just attract judges because they always have to go through training. With a judge-alternate, this could possibly be done a little faster, but of course you always have to ensure that it does not interfere with current cases, for example in multiple chambers, where conflicting interests can still play. That's why courts on that part are reluctant. Finally, diversity. Mrs van Dooiweert said something about that. I think diversity is everywhere, but quality is always above everything. If you really want good people, you obviously look wide, because you can't afford to leave talent behind. Mr. Chairman. I'm switching to pressure, trouble and finance. We've talked about that a lot. I would like to conclude positively by answering a number of questions in relation to the initiatives that are under way to make justice more socially effective. That is the ambition of the cabinet, but also a deeply rooted desire of the judiciary itself. At the heart of this development is the fact that justice is going to contribute much more to the resolution of conflicts. A thorough verdict is nice, you could say, and can lead to legal development, but in most cases it is not the party's concern. They simply want clarity, a solution to the problems, further business and further on with their lives. I am very impressed by the positive energy that I also taste in the judiciary. We are at the beginning of a process of renewal. I think we should take our time. The justice system will discover experimentally what does work and what doesn't. This will also lead to structural improvements, which we are actually aiming at. So let justice try to scale up what works. That is what it is meant for, in fact in line with the suggestions made by Lennaerts. He is actually the "godfather," the founder of the neighborhood judge in the North of the Netherlands. He then refers to the Belgian justice of the peace. I am going to visit my Belgian colleague shortly to see if we can learn from that. Jeroen Recourt is more in line with alternative forms of justice such as mediation. This is specifically a matter of renewing legal proceedings. Mrs Vlietstra asked when the experiment was successful. I would say that an experiment can succeed in two ways: by being a decisive success that we can learn from and that we can roll out to other places in the Netherlands, or by proving an incredible failure. Something that we thought would work out nicely at the front would not work at all in practice. Why? Then you'll learn something. I think we should not run away from the fact that experiments should also fail. The point is: do we learn from it, from which we can then make structural improvements again? That's what matters most to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u167	I agree, but I started with the question: what are your goals with the experiments? Because on the basis of this, you can judge whether something has failed or passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u168	I want to see what you can do to make certain processes easier. It is now sometimes very complicated for those seeking justice to get a hold of that. Can we go faster? Can it be more low-threshold? Could it possibly be cheaper? By "cheaper," I mean "cheaper." Let me give you an example. We now see that cases sometimes come back three or four times. Each time the judiciary gets that I have just explained with that PxQ-systematiek just paid. There are noises within the judiciary that say: give us now at first instance, at the first meeting, a little more time, so that we can get things right. For example, in divorce cases. Then we see people much less often. At the moment, the judiciary cuts itself in the face of this, because then they only get paid once, while spending more time in it. Then I find it interesting to say: get on with it. If it turns out to be a success and if it turns out to be possible to capture things in the future with more time at the front, then we must learn from it and look at the funding model. We may have to do this differently and then we can make it structural. Parts such as speed, simplicity, low-threshold, efficiency and affordability are elements on which I hope we will succeed. At the end of the day, I may still be concerned with something deeper, namely social effectiveness. How do we solve people's problems with court rulings? Then there was a question from Mrs Bikker, but also from Mr Backer: can justice finance and finance all this? I've had conversations about that. It's not about huge budgets. I think you can expect any organization to have a little room for innovation. Often it's a matter of renting a room or one or two people you need to exempt for a little longer. They can really take that on their own, even in the current situation. If you want to roll it out, of course, we have a different story. This also applies when you make adjustments in your funding system. As a result of experiments, we have conversations about this. Then I'm going from justice to access to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u169	I think you're gonna do that very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u170	I'm going to do my best, but I don't know if that's a good thing for anyone who's asked questions about legal aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u171	No, but I'm also looking around at the members. They may not interfere more than once. I also keep an eye on the clock, because we will soon have a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u172	There are two major issues I would like to address here: legal aid and registry rights. But if we are talking about access to justice, perhaps it is also good if I look briefly at the questions raised by Mrs Vlietstra and Mrs Van Bijsterveld in connection with the WRR report Weten is not yet doing anything. The point is that we look in a new way when it comes to life changing events, for example when someone is deeply in debt or in divorce. The rational way of thinking, which we use for a great deal of policy, often does not exactly correspond to what is going on in practice. It requires us to look at it in a better way. I sent a letter saying, on the one hand, we have to go towards some sort of do-it-yourself test. We are currently developing these with a number of departments. We then said that we really want to highlight three policy areas where this is very strong. Those are: everything about divorces, everything about debts and everything about non-use of surcharges. Then there's legal aid. You have already given the Prime Minister quite a handle on this matter on 4 December. In particular, it dealt with the feasibility of the Van der Meer Committee's report within the existing financial frameworks. The Prime Minister then indicated that there would be a letter. You can receive it soon after the summer. I would like to give a directional perspective on the revision of the legal aid system and on its consequences for the current system. A number of Members challenged me: they have already given me a hint of the veil. I'd be happy to. My aim in the revision of the system is to provide the seeker with a quick, easily accessible and adequate solution to her or his dispute, but on the other hand to provide the professional concerned, the lawyer, with adequate compensation. I would like to highlight these two elements, because they indicate the range within which we want to arrive at an adequate system. I say 'we' very emphatically, because at the moment there are really many parties, including with the lawyer, all kinds of conversations and sessions to come up with a redesign and the development of new ideas. Then what does that come out of it? Four points. One. Invest and innovate in front. Think carefully about an easily accessible intake, physical, telephone and online, which should help people to avoid turning problems into legal proceedings in a more appropriate way than they are now. I agree with the report by the Wolfsen Committee, which also stresses this movement towards the front. But I would say that we are actually going a step further. The provision of legal aid can be linked much better with other aid structures. Think of neighbourhood teams, for example. Van der Vlist's report also calls for this. Someone is not just looking for legal aid; there is often a reason, not often also with a multiple problem. Think, for example, in the area of debt or in the area of care. The question then is how we can connect as much as possible at the front with the core of the task, a bit in the mind of first- and second-line legal advice and care. I believe that Mrs Vlietstra referred to this. The second point is that it pays for the good. In the sessions a lance was broken for a funding system that contains less perverse and more good incentives. In particular, it is critical, for example, when aid workers are paid for activities that do not take their customers any further or vice versa, when lawyers really help their customers with their problem, but are not paid for them. You can sometimes see that in the distinction process versus settle. You get paid for one thing, but for the other much less. Three. Come up with facts and experiences-based and validated solution routes. That's very important. To provide a problem with a correct solution, you need to have a clear picture of what you want to do and which solution delivers the best result at what time. Those routes aren't static. They will be created by social innovation and technological development. To make it more concrete, I call André Rouvoet's report on divorce without damage. This is not just about looking for a legal solution to a legal problem. Often this is linked to a lot of other things. For example, this can be a referral to a divorce window, helping you to make good appointments with your ex-lover. That would be much better than being forwarded to the judge with the assistance of a lawyer. Or if you have debt problems, you can be sent to court to defend your interests in a case, assisted by a lawyer. You can also be sent to the municipality to see what you can do to get rid of those debts. Point four: give better shape to government action. Too often we hear that the action of one or more public authorities creates problems. Of the number of cases where assistance is also provided, I am not just talking about punishment, because that is where a role for the government has been automatically laid down. For a large part, civil administration is also concerned with matters where the government is the other party. We might be able to find a different way to do that. That leads to fewer legal matters. Especially in agencies such as CJIB, UWV and Tax Administration that sort of thing. There there is a need on the work floor for more space and more tailor-made work so that it does not come to a legal conflict at all. In short, these are four guiding statements that provide a basis for further discussion and design. I have already seen that we will also have to differentiate between jurisdictions. There is no single approach to legal aid as a whole. It's really different from one jurisdiction to another. In addition, legal aid should be granted to those who, whether temporarily or not, are not self-reliant. I do not just want to look at those who are less able, to whom this often applies, but also to those who are wider. In the case of first-line advice and support, I can imagine that a much larger group would be eligible for this. Mr President, this all sounds very positive. I realise that we also have to make difficult choices if you want to do it within the existing financial frameworks. We're not avoiding those choices. I would also like to say to Mr Backer that we really should not be ashamed if you look at the international states. We are part of the Europe Summit when it comes to the budget that we allocate to legal aid, a total of EUR 400 million. We really need to be able to do it, but then you might have to give priority to certain parts. A few questions. Mr Backer asked about the possibility of experimental legislation. In principle, the Law on Legal Assistance is also one of the areas in which an experimental law can provide this new consultation. I don't know if it's gonna monitor that immediately, but if that helps, we're definitely gonna look into that. I very much believe that experiments can help. Mrs Vlietstra asked to what extent we have investigated whether we are prepared to investigate whether people on low incomes are being hindered from going to court. That would, of course, be an essential point and an essential concern. The law must also be accessible to them. In 2015, the WODC investigated the non-use of legal aid. That investigation showed that in many cases citizens themselves will come out of it, reach their goal in a different way or solve the problem without legal aid providers. The WODC also concluded that the level of income and whether or not it is entitled to Wrb do not make a difference to the use of legal aid or procedures. What does play a role in lower incomes are many more social psychological barriers, not knowing exactly how to get out of a problem. That is, of course, particularly with regard to the easy-to-access advice and easy-to-access legal assistance, something that we have to pay attention to. Then Mrs. Van Bijsterveld asked what we can do to ensure that lawyers no longer take on any miserable and hopeless cases. That's a point that I hear regularly and that lawyers are best recognized here and there. At the same time, attorneys sometimes also complain that the profession is being accused of having to do so on a large scale. I don't think that's what's happening. We must be careful not to put the profession unnecessarily in a bad light. The problem should not be exaggerated. The suggestions we are getting to overcome where it does happen are certainly included in the redesign and revision of legal aid. Mr Backer actually asked the question a little bit wider, and Mrs Van Bijsterveld, too, went on to discuss the distinction between social and commercial, in fact the whole development in the legal profession, where you also see more and more specialization. That can be explained, because it is sometimes necessary to offer a good quality, but that does ask us questions like: what does that mean for the future legal profession? I think the same discussion goes for the notary too. There, too, you can see great changes taking place. I was challenged to put forward a vision of that for once. Now I am somewhat reluctant to do so because it is precisely in those legal professions that you see that there is a very strong profession and that the order itself has expressed ideas about this. I think they should take the lead in sketching the future vision of what the legal profession will look like in the future. At the same time, there are few professions that are regulated as the legal profession. It also affects legislation and so I am involved. Perhaps this is what I am allowed to do, as I say to Mr Backer. If I start the discussion now with the order of how we might put this on the table as a joint project, and I write to you in a letter how we intend to work it out, that might be the closest thing to the vision you are asking for. I share your curiosity and your question about how the lawyer will develop in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u173	I think that's an excellent idea. It is not a call for greater regulation of the legal profession, but I come to it because we have discussed a number of interactions, such as the Experimentation Law and the problem of social law. It seems like an excellent thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u174	Finally, on legal aid. Mrs Strik asked about the specific development of the position of the government agreement on the abolition of legal aid in asylum matters. The granting of legal aid only after the release of a negative intention does not mean that a foreigner starts an asylum procedure unprepared or that he lacks a legal guarantee. During the period of rest and preparation, there is scope to inform the asylum seeker about the significant opposition to the procedure. The Netherlands is obliged by EU legislation to continue providing information. In this way, the Netherlands brings practice more into line with what a number of other EU Member States are doing and with EU legislation. I would suggest that your Chamber awaits my colleague Mr Harbers' concrete proposal and conducts the discussion on asylum legal aid as part of the flexibilisation of the asylum chain. I'm going to the Registry. When we talk about access to justice, legal aid is of course important, but also the level of registry rights. That is a frequently recurring subject, including in your Chamber. You have strongly opposed a number of changes in this area in the previous period. In recent years, it has often been a question of proposals to increase registry fees. Your Chamber made a clear statement against that at the time. Recently, the public debate has also often focused on the need for a reduction in registry fees. This is usually about the level of the Registry Law for legal persons in small claims on small amounts of money that are just above the €500 limit. Let me say first of all that I am in principle in favour of the imposition of registry duties. This leads to serious consideration and can prevent cases from being brought before the courts lightly. So I don't think a threshold is bad. Almost all European countries have registry rights and the Netherlands does not stand out in terms of the level of registry rights either. In my view, there will always be discussion about the level of the registry fees. Recently we had a discussion on this with the House of Representatives. Sometimes the image has been evoked that the Registry fees have been constantly increased in recent years. I want to nuance that image here. The registry duty rates have not been increased in general since the end of 2010. At that time, the increase was 5%. Of course, the rates are indexed annually, so in the discussion on Registry fees it is often really specific about that one rate for legal persons, just above €500. These are particularly small self-employed, SMEs andzzp'ers. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked whether they could still collect their claims. Of course it is for small self-employed and SMEs, but it is also for large energy companies and insurers. In every system with stunned categories there are border cases. Such a system also implies that there are claims for which the tariff is relatively unfavourable, but also claims for which the tariff is relatively favourable. What did I do? I have outlined four budget-neutral scenarios to the House of Representatives in which, above all, the lower law of the Court of First Instance is based on something else. A reduction in the lower part will then result in an increase in the higher part. In any case, a majority of the House of Representatives wished to further develop one of these variants. That's what I want to do. Maybe that could offer something of enlightenment and solace. I say to Mrs Vlietstra: what I wanted to say in the interview with NRC is that I am not convinced that in all cases registry rights are too high a threshold for those seeking justice. There are often many more factors that play a role. The cost of a lawyer, the availability of other possibilities, of alternatives to the case law can also play a role in this. For the summer, the results are expected from an investigation by the Verwey-Jonker Institute into the motives for not using the judge. This will hopefully give us an insight into the reasons behind non-use and the extent to which registry rights play a role in it. Then I come to my third big block, which is about everything that has to do with modernisation. I'll start with what's called the digital transformation. Mrs Duthler asked how the government is looking at the issue of the standardisation of digital transformation and developments in the augmented human being. Isn't it time to start thinking about how to protect human dignity in the introduction of new technologies? In this context, Ms Strik asked whether the cabinet would like to examine the impact of algorithms and develop a vision on them. Ms Van Bijsterveld asked about the government's view on the consequences of digitalising society on the trias and the rule of law in a broad sense. I see the themes that Members raise as themes that you should pick up along three tracks. One, get an insight into what this is all about. Two is vision forms. What is the role of the government? Where would we like to regulate and also where would we not? And three is to put that into practice in concrete measures. If we don't do it that way, I think we're going to run too much on quicksand, especially on a subject that is already very complicated and changes very quickly. I have already referred to the National Digitisation Strategy that you will receive from us, but there is more going on. Maybe I can walk by a few things, because that digitisation strategy is not on its own. For example, in March, the cabinet position was issued on two reports from the Rathenau Institute, Upgrading: securing public values in digital society and Human Rights in the robotic age. These reports give important leads on the ethical aspects involved in such technological developments. I believe that this is the subject of a written consultation with your Chamber. The WRR will also be asked for advice shortly in order to conduct a discipline-excessive research into the impact of artificial intelligence on public values. Our own WODC conducts research into legal aspects of algorithms when it comes to the use of these algorithms when taking decisions independently, which, of course, also plays and can play a role in legal disputes and forms of justice. I am preparing a letter in which I will put some thought lines around the application of algorithms and artificial intelligence in justice. The House of Representatives has asked me to do so. You can expect that letter in the autumn, shortly after the summer. I am also developing a vision of what I was talking about at the beginning, namely horizontal privacy and the opportunities to standardise the use of certain new techniques, insofar as these techniques can affect the protection of privacy. There are a number of comments to be made. I have noticed that in all the operations that are under way, this is always a subject involving sliding panels. That was also one of the reasons why, in the view of the previous cabinet on the WRR report, Big Data chose not to put too much effort on legal regulation or regulation, but to think much more about a number of principles of principle. Think of the starting point that big data should be up to date when using it or that used algorithms and analytical methods should be sound. Otherwise, there's too much risk of a bias. Transparency is certainly important here. In this context, I come to Mrs Duthler, who wondered whether hatred and political disinformation could not be minimized if we were to enforce much more transparency of algorithms. Mrs Strik also stressed the importance of monitoring and transparency regarding the use of algorithms. I share that point of departure in the basics. I also believe that transparency can contribute to this, but in practice you often encounter obstacles. Let me mention some of them. The fact that algorithms are very often deeply embedded in software, software that is also protected once by intellectual property rights. You can make money using algorithms, so companies are thriving on revealing their secrets. There may also be technical barriers that reduce the transparency of algorithms. If you look at artificial intelligence, for example, these algorithms become so complex that even if you are transparent about it, it is very difficult to understand them. However, the government itself can set an example, so that it can at least be as transparent as possible when using algorithms. I would like to draw your attention to the big data toolkit which is under development at Justice and Security and which will also be published on the national government website. It contains guidelines that should contribute to ensuring that algorithms used by the public authorities are sufficiently transparent for supervisors and for judicial control. I expect those guidelines to be ready by the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u175	The Minister just mentioned the barriers, especially practical barriers, barriers to IPR rights, being rooted in software. Can I put that on the first point, namely that it is a first step and that the government will then develop a vision of how we wish to deal with these obstacles and what practical measures can be taken? So my specific question is: can I understand it so that we are now on step one?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u176	Yes, we are very much on step one here, but we are also on step two: what exactly could you do? The possibilities of the government are also limited, as far as intellectual property law is concerned. I believe that is one of the subjects you have been very much involved in. We cannot force tech companies to give up all these things. This really requires an answer to the more fundamental question where the role of the government begins and ends.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u177	I think that the fundamental question begins with: what values do we want to protect? What's in the way of that right now? As a government, do we want to play a role in regulation or do we want to take measures to remove these obstacles? I would be sorry if we accepted the obstacles as a fact and the values that we have so hard to protect would then remain at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u178	I fully agree that the Ministry can take on its own responsibility. I was wondering: can this not also mean something for our role in relation to companies? We obtain programs with algorithms from companies, for certain public tasks. Could you not, for example, as part of a tendering procedure, demand that the information on the basis of which these algorithms were made be provided, precisely in order to prevent these biases and to ensure that they are as neutral as possible? After all, the government is taking down a service. Can't you do something in that context? If a company doesn't want that, then that company just doesn't go along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u179	Sure. Then, of course, the possibilities are greater. You can include this kind of requirement in a call for tenders, especially where it would affect those fundamental fundamental rights, or where they are at stake. This is different when you as a government do not have a direct role as a client. It may also be used simply on the free internet, in the free movement between platform makers and customers. The government is not a client, but could possibly take on a regulatory role, as we do now for example with the GDPR. But more is possible in the case of invitations to tender.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u180	Does the Minister intend to adopt a position on this matter? We are talking about the transparency of algorithms and their use by the government, but this also affects, for example, microtargeting or nudging, which I mentioned earlier. I therefore think that we should start by formulating a position: what do we really want?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u181	Yes. We would very much like to do that, and all those investigations that are currently under way will help us to form a good position in the future. A subject such as microtargeting, in which personal data are also used, is of course very close to privacy aspects. This is a subject which I hope we will have a little clearer outlines on in the autumn than we are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u182	Mrs. Duthler, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u183	This saves in the second term. Can I take this as an undertaking from the Minister that he will formulate an overarching position on how we should deal with these kinds of developments when we look at those core values of the rule of law, in a broad sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u184	I'll make it very specific. I have promised the House of Representatives that in the autumn I will come up with a vision in which I will take the aspect of horizontal privacy with me. But there is also the broader question of how artificial intelligence affects human dignity and other fundamental fundamental rights. That's really a little wider than that, because then you're also talking about the effects on equality, you name it. It's gonna take a little more time. That also requires that the investigation is completed, and of course, when that investigation is completed, we will come up with a cabinet position on the basis of the recommendations made by that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u185	But is that the cabinet's position on horizontal privacy, or is that the broader position, in which those issues that you have just mentioned will be taken into account? So it is really about the issues of freedom of information, the intertwinedness of man and machine, and free choice. Is it true that these issues are really involved, or is the Minister really just restricting them to horizontal privacy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u186	Mr President, may I do this? I can be clear about this horizontal privacy. I happen to know that, and I have discussed this with the House of Representatives on several occasions. It'll come in the fall. Maybe I can take that broader point into account in my answer to the second term. Then I'm gonna go back and see where that's exactly in time. There are still investigations in progress, but I can't quite see when they will be completed. So there's a lot going on. We are also doing a great deal at European level. It is then about questions like: how to deal with profiling? How to prevent misuse of data and manipulation? I'm also thinking about the discussion we had about Facebook and Cambridge Analytica. Now, of course, you can try to prevent and regulate this as the Netherlands, but it is even better to do so on a larger scale, and that is why we are doing a lot with the European Commission. The interesting thing is that I think the Commission issued a new communication on this last week. So this will soon be discussed in the Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u187	Mrs. Strik, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u188	That pulling together is a very good first step. Can the Minister also comment on the Dutch Government's commitment to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u189	Mr. Chairman. The aim is to regulate the protection of privacy and privacy in a proper way. We are going to examine the Commission's communication further, and if that is the subject of discussion in the Council, we will still have a discussion on it, at least with the House of Representatives. This is not yet so concrete that it already leads to concrete measures, but we want to try to frame and prevent as much as possible manipulation of data and its effects on elections and other processes. My impression is that the Commission itself is still looking at what exactly to regulate with rules, or what to do with self-regulation. The latter is currently happening with large platforms and tech companies to see if they can make a first distinction themselves. So if you ask me what the commitment of the Netherlands is, I can say that we want it to be well arranged. But if you ask what specific measures and actions we want to take, I think that is the honest answer that we are looking for ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u190	May I ask if you're almost there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u191	I'm almost done. I have two more topics. Mrs. Duthler asked how we look at the liability of robots. Robots offer all kinds of opportunities and opportunities, but it may also go wrong. What about the liability? Acting or exercising powers by a robot or using artificial intelligence...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u192	I think that is a very interesting subject, of course, but I was well over my time and I thought that I would stop raising this issue. As far as I'm concerned, therefore, you may waive the liability of robots.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u193	Thank you. Then I'll go to e-Court. Various members have considered this: members Strik, Bikker, Van Bijsterveldt and Baay-Timmerman. E-Court is a private institution that offers dispute resolution in the form of digital arbitration. You could speak of a form of modern dispute resolution. In general, I am in favour of initiatives that offer alternative dispute resolution. It is a good thing that it can provide quick, affordable and mutually satisfactory solutions to a dispute. The rule of law is in itself also served by such initiatives, but in the case of e-Court there are concerns and questions about how arbitration is carried out. In particular, the following five points are addressed: the manner in which one month's reflection period is respected and that offers are to be made; whether there is a valid dispute if you consider the equivalence and reciprocity of an arbitration proceedings; e-Court means of digital decision-making; the manner in which e-Court implements the provision on aggregation of arbitration proceedings; the question of what would then have to be examined by the judiciary of its own motion. Of course, e-Court must also comply with legal requirements so that the rights of the parties are sufficiently guaranteed. That is what the judge is assessing when a leave of absence is requested to enforce an arbitrary judgment, to execute. The scope of the test by the judge is considered differently in the case-law. You have all followed that discussion, I think. I think it is important to clarify the question to which the court of e-Court has to make a precise assessment. The caselaw has therefore informed me that, in order to obtain that clarity, e-Court will refer a judgment to the Court of Justice, so that, with the input of e-Court, questions can be referred to the Supreme Court for a preliminary ruling. My proposal would be to await the answer of the Supreme Court, which could provide more clarity. Mrs Bikker asked how I see the emergence of commercial justice. Well, not necessarily negative if a number of quality requirements are met. The problems surrounding e-Court have revealed the phenomenon that large organisations often do not refer debt collection cases to a government judge, but to private organisations. In my view, this increased the question of whether the time might not have been ripe for the design of a faster and cheaper procedure in court itself. That's what we're talking about right now. We do not, therefore, rule out commercial initiatives or other alternatives by definition, but we do see whether the judiciary, the public court itself, can do something. Mrs Strik asked whether alternative forms of dispute resolution should not also comply with certain legal guarantees. I recently had the WODC investigate that question. The report Legal State guarantee of out-of-court dispute resolution has seen the light of day about four months ago. The researchers concluded that out-of-court dispute resolution should also be subject to legal guarantees. At the same time, they concluded that restraint is needed. The more safeguards, the more formalisation and formalisation can be at the expense of the strength and attractiveness of alternative forms of dispute resolution. Think of mediation, for example. In the field of mediation we are also looking at what we can do to build in more quality standards. Then all the way to the end. I promised you an answer to a question I could not put anywhere else, namely Mr Dercksen's question on the imposition of community service penalties in the event of serious violent crimes. A critical report has been published on this subject. For serious crimes of morality and violence, the imposition of community service alone is not an adequate punishment. That is why the Code of Criminal Law was amended in 2012. Since then, the law has not allowed serious sex and violence offences as defined in Article 22b criminal law to be subject to community service unless combined with an unconditional custodial sentence or a deprivation of liberty measure. It is now also clear from the parliamentary examination of the bill that the imposition of a few days' imprisonment is allowed and the legal minimum duration of the prison time to be imposed in addition to community service is one day, as the Supreme Court now confirms. Although the law allows this, the question can be asked as to whether the existing legal framework allows adequate punishment in all cases. The evaluation makes a number of critical comments as to whether this should not be strengthened. I am currently discussing those findings with all relevant parties. I aim to send my response to the report and therefore also the outcome of those talks to the House of Representatives for the summer of 2018. In this policy response, I will also address the desirability of any amendment to Article 22b of criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u194	Just to make sure we're talking about the same thing. We aim to ensure that this type of serious crime is no longer subject to community service, and that it is not used as an excuse for not imposing prison sentences on the one day in a police cell. Are we talking about the same thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u195	Yes, we are talking about the same subject, but I am not going to anticipate its outcome. The report is clear on this: look again critically at whether it should not be tightened up. I think there is no question of an honest and open consultation, if I have already said here in the First Chamber: I am going that way. Then I won't have to have that meeting with those parties anymore. I want to walk the proper route there. I will discuss this with the judiciary and with the prosecutor's office to see how we deal with it and then I will come your way. Mr. Chairman. I have an empty plateau for me. That means, I hope, I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u196	That's great. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u197	Mr President, is it possible to suspend the sitting for a few minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u198	Seven minutes, to a quarter to ten? Everybody okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u199	We shall resume the debate on the state of the rule of law. We have arrived at the second term of office and I give the floor to Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u200	Mr. Chairman. I'll be back in a little less than 12 hours. I had a not too enthusiastic story earlier today and I don't see much reason to get much more excited at this moment at this late hour of the day. I've heard Minister Dekker say this is such a fantastic country, because you can go and stand wherever you want. I'd like to advise the Minister to do a reportage with a camera on his neck in Overvecht, near the alFirah mosque. A Belgian TV team had to flee Kanaleneiland. Windows flew out of the car and at the door of the police station they were only safe. Try walking with a yarmulke in certain neighborhoods. Sometimes I have a very different picture of this country than what I have heard today. It was a clash between theory and practice, between the fine words, which I can endorse and appreciate, and the lack of action. The NFI has to wait until Prince's Day to see if there's enough money, I picked it up today. In my opinion, the cabinet really does not have the priorities in order. Last year, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police said that crime is far greater than the official figures indicate, and it was said that the government is threatening to come at an unbridgeable distance. Mr Akerboom said earlier this week that the falling crime rates clash with reality and have little meaning for everyday life. That's about the argument I made today. We've heard how many lists come by today. We were at the top of almost everything, I understand. I once put the manpower of police and justice alongside Belgium's. If we're gonna bring it to the same level, we're gonna have to hire about 18,000 people. I didn't hear that list today. Mr. Chairman. If an asylum seeker is to be expelled after 12 years of litigation, assisted by the asylum industry, the world is too small. The debate tables on TV are filling for weeks. Today was in the news that 1,400 underage girls are being abused by mainly Antillean, Moroccan, Turkish and Roma human traffickers. I actually intended not to leave here before I heard from the Minister what is being done about it and if something is not being done about it, what is going to be done about it immediately. Because it looks like we have our own Rotherham, our own Telford, from the UK, where a sex scandal.................................................................................................................................................................................... We shouldn't fall into that. I would very much like to hear that tonight I think it is very important to hear from the Minister what he is going to do about this miscarriage: 1,400 underage girls a year. Anti-Semitism also came along. It is a pity that the Minister is playing that game by saying that most reports of anti-Semitism come from the football circuit. The Jewish institutions in this country are not guarded 24 hours a day against football supporters. Name man and horse, I'd say. Mr. Chairman. I haven't heard from the ministers about the eiftars. If the police or the government participates in an eiftar, it is a sacrifice of the separation of Church and State. I would like to say a few words about this. I spoke to a young moslima a few years ago. At least, a freed-up young girl who studied at the University of Rotterdam, at Erasmus. She hated that criminal scum hanging out on her doorstep just as much as I did. She also experienced a tremendous pressure to participate in the Ramadan, that voluntary hunger strike that is taking place now. What signal does the government send, what signal does the police now send to her, who wants to escape the group pressure and the group pressure? I think that is the very wrong signal. Mr President, I would like to conclude with the case of Joop van Riessen. I haven't heard from the ministers about that either. I quote what he said in 2007: "In essence, you'd have a tendency to say, "Well, we'll kill him." That was about my party leader. "He just needs to leave today, and he can't be above the table anymore." "That's a normal reaction," he said. End of quote. That was at the VARA, at Pauw & Witteman, so I think the D.A. looked in large numbers. How then is it that neither a minister has given an indication to prosecute nor that the Public Prosecutor himself has taken action against this call for violence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u201	Thank you, Mr. Dercksen. I give the floor to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u202	Thank you, Mr President. The two leaders have started with a fundamental introduction, which appealed to my group and which was also in line with the in-depth analyses in the first term. They, if I listen to colleagues Vlietstra and Van Dijk, at some point also had the atmosphere of "I'd like to summarize how God and the canton dish disappeared from Winschoten, free to Geert Mak. I also thought that the rulers have struck a good balance between the freedoms and the tolerance that are possible. The word "tolerance" itself is already tolerated. The freedom of one is not unlimited, because it is at the expense of the other, and it must always be balanced, including by the legislator. My group also welcomes the fact that the rulers are not going in a direction, or are being tempted to do so, which, among others, Mr Dercksen recommends that we go into individual matters and yet take another step towards the direction in which the Rutte I cabinet once began with a number of legislative proposals aimed at further restricting the rule of law. Luckily, they do not agree with that, nor do they agree with the point that I would like to remind you, because Mr Dercksen was right about the minimum penalties. Fortunately, that bill has been repealed and will remain in force. The exchange has really been converted with this coalition agreement. However, we remain alert to cross-border proposals which must balance the seriousness of containment with the objective of increasing security. Of course, we will also have the discussion about the Wiv. I also understand the point that Mr Bikker raised, her question whether the individual measures ultimately resulted in this or whether they did not strengthen themselves together in such a way that you say: yes, this is actually a little too much. Minister Grapperhaus struggled a bit with the scope of that evaluation. Anyway, I think that is a question that my group will support. Then, at a good time, the individual evaluation will come along at some point. Then there's the funding. Minister Dekker says he is open to improving the system and that modalities are for discussion with the Council. There is, of course, already the Council's annual plan. Three elements have already been mentioned, namely that funding cannot meet all the needs of the case-law by linking to the number of cases, that the distribution between courts and national services is not optimal and that it is used as a steering element. What you are seeing here is an attempt, an honorable and certainly legitimate attempt, to bring a public provision into a financing model, but that also has the disadvantages we have discussed today. An inherent non-business provision is attempted to finance in a business manner. And I still think it will eventually go that there will be more discretionary power for the professionals. That's what you see in all the sectors where this is going on. I had to think for a moment about the DB problem in healthcare. For the D66 Group, it is a very difficult discussion, I say in advance, if the KEI funding is passed on to the case law in such a way that legal guarantees are at stake. I'm gonna take a look ahead. If the efficiency study is going to yield what all the efficiency studies are going to yield, namely that consultants will have it, they will always do so in English about debottlenecking, lean-and-mean, performance financing, process standardisation and all those things that always come up in efficiency, that is intrinsically not the approach for a non-business organisation. Mr President, I look forward with confidence to finding a better solution to this, but I think, when I hear it, that we have not yet figured it out. I listened to the Minister when he answered my question about the legal profession and I note the commitment. I'm happy about that, too, and I think it's useful. Finally, I would like to comment on diversity. Minister Dekker replied to these questions as they always answer questions about diversity: of course it is about quality. But the challenge is, of course, to ensure in an organization which is predominantly white, that you do not always accept the people who look like you, but, on the contrary, others of the same quality, I say to Mr Dercksen also give a chance. I think that there must always be a conscious decision, otherwise it will not happen. Finally, I see a great effort in our country to improve and maintain the rule of law. I wish the rulers the best of luck with this difficult but beautiful task. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u203	Thank you very much, Mr Backer. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u204	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank both ministers for their detailed reply and also for the vision they set out at the beginning of their speech on the rule of law. It also makes it clear that both ministers, and indeed all the spokesmen in this Chamber, stress above all: the rule of law must not be taken for granted. It's part of our identity, but you have to be alert and keep working on it, because it doesn't just stay right. I think it is also a good thing that sometimes we should just really confirm that, as legislator, as co-legislator. We need to use this constantly in support of new measures and proposals, and we need to test them really actively and transparently, so that it can live more. As far as life is concerned, I believe that the Ministry of Justice and Security should also uphold these principles. The Minister for Legal Protection indicated that the guiding principle is the monitoring of the judicial system of funding quality. That is a good starting point and I think that is very important. I do wonder, a little in line with what Mr Backer said, if you can still approach it in the way it is now, so as business processes. Or will you not have to come to the conclusion that, because it is such a separate branch and profession, you have to look at it differently to ensure that independence? I also asked in my first term whether perhaps that is why you should not think about your own budget. That is one of the reasons why I have co-signed a motion that Mr Ruers will be tabling shortly. I think it would be a good idea to take a more fundamental look at the system and the decisions that have been taken in recent years. It struck me very much that the Minister, in his reply at a certain point in time, was reassuringly saying that there was a reduction in the number of cases. He says that this will reduce the workload, so that in part will also solve the problem. He thus gives the impression that it is a blessing that the number of cases is falling, but my group does not see that as such. In my first term, I also set out three reasons for this. In any case, we have been told that a group of citizens who no longer have access can, either because of too high registry rights, or because they may not understand the system. The OM statements are not always a blessing either, because there are, of course, limits and critical factors. And companies may experience it as obstacles or unattractive, and may find it too long. That is why they may resort to other ways of resolving disputes. So for us, these are more symptoms that things are not going well than developments that solve the problem. I would like the Minister to comment on this later. Does he recognize that as such? Does he recognize that it can be? And how does he intend to involve that in his investigations? Less accessibility and less quality might also be underlying reasons. The minister said we should learn from the problems with KEI. I cannot stress enough that I fully agree with that. To my mind, he still stresses a little too much that this is different because the independence of the judiciary has to be taken into account, but at the same time, fortunately, he also indicates that we see this much more often in all other processes. He has also said that he is learning these lessons, including for other processes and perhaps also for the future of KEI. Could he let us know by letter what lessons are being learned from this KEI project for other processes? I'm here for legal aid. The preliminary points of view sound good. In my view, the first point is that it must be budgetaryly neutral. Here again, the question is whether you can let quality be a guiding principle with simply harsh budgetary limits. How free, how neutral and how independent can you then look at what the quality of budget requires? In the case of asylum, the Minister refers to Secretary of State Harbers, but I would like the Minister to answer my question as to whether there is an impact assessment in advance of those two arguments which the government has always considered crucial for legal aid, namely the quality of the decision in such a fast procedure, and the prevention of new requests or appeals. Of course, giving information is quite different from giving legal aid. So in my opinion, if those two arguments have always been valid, you should also be able to justify why they would no longer be valid. We have mentioned e-Court and alternatives to dispute resolution. At e-Court, the minister mentioned five concerns. And on alternative dispute resolution, the WODC concludes something, but there are also limits to it. What I miss a little bit is how the minister himself stands. If there are concerns, what is the point of view? How are we going to ensure that these safeguards are put in place? Technology has been given a lot of attention in the first term and the Minister is also giving a great deal of attention to it. We are really very happy that there are important investigations and are being deported, with the right research questions as well. This shows that the government recognises that it is urgent that, as a government, we should really look at how these developments can ensure that those principles of the democratic rule of law can be secured. We shall therefore suspend the debate somewhat, because we will still have to wait for the results of the investigations. I ask the Minister when he thinks all these investigations will be completed. And will they be assessed in their entirety? This is a bit the same as counterterrorism: they are all separate questions, but of course they have a lot to do with each other. In what way will that come to us? As far as I am concerned, we should also listen carefully to the recommendation of the Rathenau Institute that there should also be a parliamentary involvement in this discussion and the measures to be taken. We shall therefore have the debate on this at a later date. My final point concerns this integrated vision. I would also very much like to see how the government will also work at European level to achieve the measures envisaged at a higher level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the rulers for their clear and comprehensive answer, an answer without raffle edges, I say with a wink at the well-known publication of Minister Grapperhaus. Although that is not entirely true for KEI and related matters, here I see myself primarily a role for the House of Representatives. I thank my esteemed colleague Backer for his sly paraphrase when it comes to the very well-known and beautiful book by Geert Mak "How God disappeared from Jorwerd." I have read that book several times and Mak describes in a wonderful way that Frisian countryside and the lights over it, but also all those church towers that you always see, wherever you look. Against the backdrop of those church towers, he describes "Backer" as well as the funeral of Tjitse Tijssen and describes how the deceased is put down in the fresh grave and, says Mak very cutely, very dryly after it: without any prayer. Against the background of all these church towers, that is perhaps what we have seen happening in the Netherlands: all the church towers, they are all still there, but the faith behind them has already evaporated to a large extent. And if that's profit for our society? I'm sure it doesn't, and it also has consequences for our rule of law. Partly in this light, I would also like to thank Minister Grapperhaus for his commitment to continue the discussion with the churches, including on the assumptions of our rule of law. I would also like to encourage those churches from this place to play gratefully. I know that in virtually all churches there are very regular prayers for our country and I am sure that they also have a message to our rule of law. I also appreciate the strong condemnation of the anti-Semitism minister in our country. It's good to taste this outrage on this minister's behalf. Space and protection for this vulnerable minority is also a kind of litmus test for our rule of law. I advocated an annual Battle-Against-Anti-Semitic Flag at city halls. The Minister thinks that's a local matter. Actually, I agree with him. At the same time, the Minister will sit at the table with municipal authorities and also talk about anti-Semitism. Of course it is not forbidden to make this point. Municipalities today express their solidarity with many minorities. I've been referring to the rainbow flags for a while. Well, let congregations come out of the closet when it comes to visible solidarity with the Jewish minority in our country. I also advocated more visible, rigged criminal proceedings concerning the threat to politicians or anti-Semitism. The Minister referred to the so-called thematic sessions. Now, that offers interesting clues. To what extent can these sessions indeed be explicitly used to make a clear statement on certain frequent crimes? And are these opportunities being systematically exploited? My last point is about that porn movie in a church in Tilburg. The Minister encourages churches to establish contact with municipal authorities, where necessary, in order to lay down further rules on the protection of what is sacred to believers. I think that is a justified encouragement. I hope local churches want to pick up this glove, too. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for his update on my motion for a resolution on the withdrawal of the Dutch identity of terrorists. I look forward to the WODC's investigation and assume the Minister will keep us informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u207	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u208	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to thank both directors for their answers, but certainly also for the reflections they have made on this subject. In the direction of Mr Backer, I do not know if you know it, but Winschoten's nickname is Sodom. You can think of anything, but that has to do with the Jewish history of Winschoten. After Amsterdam, Winschoten was once the second Jewish municipality of the Netherlands. Whether there was much God and is in Winschoten, I dare doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u209	Thank you for this enrichment. There was one god in Winschoten, I think, but another.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u210	Sure. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of points on which I would like to make a few comments in the second term. I'll start with the financials. The Minister says that from 2019 on, structural red figures will be written: structural deficits, inter alia, as a result of KEI and the fact that there are fewer cases, and I share Mrs Strik's view that it is only the question whether you should point that out positively. At least you should know more about what that's about, but that aside. But I note that the Minister continues to believe that the primary responsibility for these deficits lies with the judiciary and that they should also come up with the solution. Mr. Chairman. In my view, this has not solved the problem, because I agree with Mr Backer that justice cannot solve this itself, financially, because there is no such money, and I fear that this Minister too will have to draw that conclusion in time. Unless we accept that the quality of justice is deteriorating, registry duties are being increased and other measures are being taken that we as a group would not want in any case. I would like to repeat my question to the Minister: is the Minister prepared to accept these consequences? Where does he put the line at that point? As far as the workload is concerned, the Minister has mentioned a number of issues which should all lead to the appeal becoming more attractive and possibly also to job vacancies being filled out more easily. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he expects the judiciary to be strong within a reasonable period of time or whether there are more problems if you are talking about the considerable shortage of judges. Innovation. Well, it's good to hear that the Minister is so obsessed with that and that he also indicates that these experiments should lead to structural improvements. I think that is a very important one: we are not going to try out some things, but the aim is really to improve the case law in a structural way. But, Mr. Chairman, innovation costs money. I asked the Minister what he was going to do to support these experiments, including in the financial sense. I did not receive an answer to that question. I would very much like to hear that again, because I do not assume that this too is based on the fact that we are definitely taking into account revenues that might be achieved in the future. Legal aid. The Minister says that after the summer he comes up with a directional perspective. Now "after the summer" is a stretchy concept. So maybe the Minister could be a little more precise about that. I say that also because my view is that the urgency is high. It is not for nothing that the USAN suspended the meeting with this minister two weeks ago. So does the Minister feel this urgency and can he indicate a little more precisely when solutions can be expected? In this context, he also mentioned the importance of paying attention to the position of lower income groups. May I explain that as a commitment that you have within that directional perspective, I think that a somewhat impossible word, but it is your words that take account of the position of low incomes? Finally, the Registry fees. I also noticed that a number of scenarios have been outlined in the House of Representatives and that a further work is being done to see if you can further clarify that stabbing. Well, that sounds like a good thing, Mr. Chairman. I am surprised that there is such a short-term investigation by the Verwey-Jonker Institute into the non-use of justice and the factors involved. That seems to me to be an extremely important investigation. I'd like to wait and see. I assume that we will also have that research, and after reading it, we can then see whether it provides sufficient information or whether there is reason to discuss it further. I wish both rulers good luck together in that one ministry. I do not want to talk about this now, but I am sure we will discuss it more in the coming years. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u211	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was a long debate about much better in our beautiful rule of law, but let us stress that the value of that rule of law stands, that there is one and that the Netherlands is a privileged country in that respect compared to many countries. My group is pleased that the government sees that and is working to transfer it to future generations. I would also like to thank the two directors, through you, of course, Mr President, for their broad answer and for their fine basic notions at the beginning of their contribution. This showed what their hearts are beating and why they want to stand up for this rule of law. A good start, I'd like to say. Then I will go to my contribution, Mr President, and the points that have remained. First of all, I talked about the tension between security and freedom. Counterterrorism legislation reflects that. It has logically been dealt with in pieces in this Chamber by the events and developments that have been and still have been taking place. The evaluation provisions are therefore also dated at a different time. That is precisely why it seems sensible to evaluate these laws in conjunction, to look at the decentralised effects for the mayors but possibly also wider if necessary, and to include their findings. I would like to thank the Minister for his answer on the safety paradox, but if you have adopted a lot of legislation in this area, it is also important to have the courage to learn lessons and to see whether the approach is effective. Perhaps it needs to be supplemented, but it could also be too much in certain respects. Fortunately, the Minister is keen that there are many evaluations coming and wants to include the threat images, but my question is really to do this in conjunction. That is why I have a motion which is widely supported by almost all the groups present, except those of the PVV. The President shall: Mr Bikker, Mr Ester, Mr Duthler, Mr Strik, Mr Vlietstra, Mr Diederik van Dijk, Mr Van Bijsterveld, Mr Backer and Mr Ruers proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that shocking terrorist attacks in Europe and the exodus of radicalised jihad-goers in recent years have led to new laws and regulations;]] [[Whereas this counter-terrorism legislation has been dealt with in this Chamber at successive times, with individual evaluations to be carried out for each of the legislative proposals;]] [[Whereas, in view of counter-terrorism legislation, the various legal assessments can make it more clear how measures contribute to the promotion of security and the monitoring and protection of our rule of law and what lessons this will lead to for the future;]] [[calls on the Government to evaluate counter-terrorism legislation in a coherent manner, including the involvement of local government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-T]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A second field of tension I outlined is that of the privacy of many Dutch people in their digital trade and walk across from the tech giants, who are often not based in Europe. I have heard the Minister say good things about this, but the challenge is really to focus on the developments and their effects, so that the legislator does not go after them. Also in the international context, even wider than the European Union, there is a need to do the sensible things that are really needed. I suspect that I can very much agree with what Mrs Duthler is going to say about this, because this is one of the challenges facing our rule of law in the future. Mr. Chairman. I also talked about access to justice. Important notes have been given by both government officials on whose behalf the rule of law is. It is precisely low-educated Dutch and middle-class, yes, that all citizens should be able to find justice at any time. The rule of law stands or falls with that. It is good that this is the motivation of these rulers. We will also assess the legislative proposals that will follow in this area. You have now given the good intentions as far as I'm concerned. We're waiting for the sequel. Much has been explained with regard to the digitisation of the case law and the KEI project. I would just like to ask the Minister to reflect a little more on my most important point of criticism, namely the criticism that Tjeenk Willink may have expressed most sharply, namely that management culture has become dominant over what is the function of the judge. Is that still leading the digitisation process? And how does that reflection get its value in the follow-up steps the Minister is considering? Whether he does that or later in a possible letter, I don't care. Given the time, it's okay to put it in a letter. I referred to my earlier motion to name structural challenges within the Ministry of Security and Justice and now happy Justice and Security, also because there are tension areas because since then there have really been new, major developments that are not good and that cost millions. I'm thinking KEI, the DA, the NFI and the police. The Minister of Justice referred to the budget. That is a somewhat economical answer; let me put it nicely. But today Thorbecke's biography has also been presented. We know Thorbecke most of all, of course, by his words 'wait for our actions'. Let me say something positive: I await your actions, but in the budget you will find me again on this point. Mr. Chairman. With this, I look forward to the autumn and can still tell the Minister of Honor that every Sunday the church in Winschoten is open.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u214	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u215	Mr. Chairman. It was a special debate today. It is a nice tradition to hold a debate on the state of the rule of law once in the many years in this house. My group therefore thanks the directors for answering the questions. Now it was true that many responses to the questions raised by my group and by other groups meant that there would be a cabinet response or vision before or after the summer. I refer to the vision of digital developments in relation to the rule of law, e-Court, the cabinet response to the evaluation of the Police Act, the administrative chain consultation, a vision of the NFI, the future of the OM, a vision of the significance of the WRR report "Knowing is not yet done" on the legislation, taking up the costs of KEI and the vision of the funding system of justice. There were also a number of legislative proposals that have either just been consulted or are about to be consulted. On the one hand, this means, of course, for the debate, that you cannot then go into that content, because the reactions are still coming. But to point out the positive, we can at least say that there is a lot of movement and that there is much to look forward to. In any event, after receiving these reactions, my group will continue to discuss the content and, above all, the direction of these leaders, and from the perspective we have outlined in the first term. For the second term, I only have a few questions and comments. I'll start with the series of questions to Minister Dekker. The first question concerns the revision of the judicial card. In that context, he mentioned the lifting of the external locations of the canton courts and the default sentences. As far as I am aware, the number of default sentences was indeed higher in those areas after that. But the purpose of that remark was, in fact, to ask the Minister, when the experiments were introduced into the case law, and certainly in the future, how to ensure that, both geographically and in terms of accessibility and close to the citizen, the same guarantees for independent and impartial justice can also, to a certain extent, fill the gap that the abandoned canton locations drop? It's a bit of a weird sentence, but the intention is clear. I'm coming up with the WRR report "Knowing isn't doing anything yet." I understand that not only will there be a vision, but there will also be some kind of do-it-yourself test. At least that sounds positive to me. I understand from the Minister's response that this is mainly about existing legislation in a number of areas. He mentioned, among other things, divorce, but also a number of other areas. My question is: will such a test be included in future legislation? Of course, it is very, very good that this is happening with existing legislation, because people are already running into it, but is it also about future legislation? When are the results of this vision expected? The legal profession was discussed in the Minister's response to the issue of undisputed and futile matters. I absolutely did not want to argue or suggest that I have the idea that this is a matter for the legal profession. It was actually a side comment on a larger point, namely how do we ensure that the rule of law will continue to maintain sufficient capacity in the future and will be able to deliver sufficient quality, especially in relation to the whole cost issue? The minister said he was interested in suggestions. I refer him to the article by, among other things, Groenewald in the Lawyer's magazine of February this year. The question of the costs of the Registry was somewhat raised by the Minister in the context of border cases. Of course, at a border it is always the case that the one just underneath is lucky, while the one up there is unlucky. I certainly didn't mean to argue it that way. I was more concerned with the fundamental question that groups in the population, citizens, as well aszzp'ers and middlemen, have the opportunity to really sue in cases and actions that are important to them without having disproportionate court fees and other court fees, so it simply does not pay for really important amounts of litigation. Of course, everyone, almost everyone, I think, thinks that there should be a certain threshold for litigation. My final comment to Minister Dekker concerns the whole question of financing, the financing system and the reimbursement of the costs of KEI and/or KEI. not being able to realise "revenues." The Minister's reaction was such that it sounded a little worrying for my group in the first place. We certainly want to discuss this in detail with the Minister at another time, because it is, of course, at the heart of one of the pillars of the trias politicians, the functioning of justice. One final question to the Minister of Justice. It's about police evaluation. There has been a lot of criticism in the field of the nature of the evaluation that has already been carried out. We realise, of course, that any evaluation will call for a cabinet response, but the point that my group wishes to make is that it is all the more important, in view of the criticism that has been made of this evaluation, that the important stakeholders of the Police Act 2012 should also be heard about their views on the process of forming the National Police so far, the bottlenecks they are experiencing and their constructive vision for the future. My question is whether the Minister can promise that he will also be able to engage with these stakeholders, so that the discussion on the evaluation of the Police Act and the outlook for the future will not be left alone in this evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u216	Thank you, Mrs Van Bijsterveld. I give the floor to Mr Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u217	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank both ministers for their positive introduction and for their support for the rule of law and for everything that goes with it. For example, I noticed that Minister Grapperhaus said that the rule of law is something that binds us. I like that very much, but if that commitment is no longer there because of the rule of law, that also means that society is displaced. That is, of course, the other side of the matter. That is what it looks like here and there, I must say. Minister Dekker has noted that the balance of powers in the triad is precarious. I agree with him because that balance has to be found over and over again. That has been one of the subjects that I have been calling attention to today, because I believe that this balance has been upset. Madam President. I was somewhat disappointed by the Minister's reply, or rather the Minister's denial, about the violation of the independence of the judiciary. I think we are clearly differing on that. In my view, I have argued why this is indeed a serious situation and that many also believe that there is already a lack of balance, an imbalance. Then I think you're beyond what a democratic rule of law should have. We need an independent judiciary. If I understand correctly, the Minister said that he has no influence at all on the judiciary. But let us be clear: the money needed for the judiciary to function properly comes, of course, from the Minister of Justice or the Minister of Justice, or at least from the Ministry of Justice. There's definitely influence on that side. We saw this very emphatically a few years ago. There were agreements about funding. Perhaps the Minister remembers that at some point the Minister of Justice had to cut back and that when the cheese bowl was used. But then the cheese bowl was also about the agreements that were made with the judiciary. I don't think straight is cheese, but the cheese bowl was pulled over. So it was just reduced. Then you see how it wrings at the moment when the judiciary is not independent and does not have a budget that it needs. Four years ago Corstens, at the time the President of the Supreme Court, rightly said here that law is not ordinary merchandise and that right costs what it costs. This means that we must also take this into account. If you want to keep the judiciary up, you have to pay what needs to be paid. It's an independent whole. In that case, there should be no cuts in the administration of justice and thereby injure the law. I think that is a crucial point. I think we differ on this, but we also want to do something about it. Madam President. Finally, I have a motion for a resolution which I would like to put to you. The President shall: Mr Ruers, Mr Striker, Mr Backer, Mr Wezel and Mr Meijer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the results of the expert meeting held in the First Chamber on 6 February 2018;]] [[having regard to the fact that the trias politician is essential for the democratic rule of law;]] [[having regard to the impact of the RO 2002 Act on the position of the judiciary within the trias politicians;]] [[Considering that the current position of the judiciary within the trias politicians is such that there is a "governance" of the judiciary, thus threatening to become a balance within the trias politician and to undermine the democratic rule of law;]] [[calls on the Government to fundamentally review the RO 2002 Act in order to ensure a balanced position of the judiciary within the trias politicians and to report on its outcome to the Upper Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-U]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u218	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u219	Thank you, Mr. Ruers. I give the floor to Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u220	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank both ministers for their positive views on the importance and value of the rule of law. That was really a pleasure to listen to. I would also like to thank the two ministers for their detailed answers to the many questions that have been put to them. We have talked a long time about KEI and the KEI problem, but we are far from finished talking about it. The concerns have not yet left this Chamber, nor have they left the Minister. My group assumes that the Minister regularly informs this Chamber of progress, not only in terms of finance, but also in terms of the achievement of the intended functionalities. I would like to hear from the Minister for Legal Protection whether he is prepared to start again with a realistic objective, a realistic project and a realistic outlook in terms of time and finance, even when he really does not see a positive outcome. My group has asked questions about alternative forms of legal aid. Perhaps I have not been paying attention, because we have talked about a lot, but I have not heard that the Minister has answered my group's question as to whether the government is prepared to investigate whether there are serious alternative forms of legal aid other than social assistance or legal aid insurance. Finally, Madam President. We have discussed in detail the challenges faced by the rule of law as a result of the digital transformation, including the dominance of the big five, the five largest tech companies, and the dependence of European companies and institutions on them. We have also discussed the protection of the freedom of information in the broad sense: to know what information I consult, or at least to know that I receive coloured information tailored to my profile. In his first term, the Minister was not quite clear whether or not he is taking into account the challenges posed by the digital transformation of the rule of law in a broad sense. I am referring to an investigation that focuses on whether and in what way the process of digital transformation needs further standardisation, and whether the government is prepared to tackle any resulting actions. That is why my group wishes to table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Duthler, Mr Schouwenaar, Mr Bikker, Mr Jorritsma-Lebbink and Mr Diederik van Dijk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the process of digital transformation, in which humans and machines are constantly linked to their environment, poses new challenges to the rule of law;]] [[whereas digital transformation is made possible by only a few tech companies located outside Europe;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to examine whether and how the process of digital transformation requires further standardisation;]] [[calls on the Government to address such an investigation, paying particular attention to ensuring the freedom of information and creating a level playing field so as to allow free and fair competition between digital transformation products and services providers, and to identify ways in which the actions resulting from this investigation can be taken at international level and inform the Court of its findings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-V]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u221	Thank you. My group looks forward to the government's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u222	Thank you, Mrs Duthler. I'm gonna take a look at the two rulers. Do you have an opportunity to answer directly? You see it cheerfully. Can I also ask the two leaders to try to conclude this debate on 22 May?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u223	May 22, you challenge us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u224	May 22nd is today. It shouldn't be 24:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u225	If there's a microphone, we can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u226	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u227	Madam President, thank you very much. I'm gonna kick your ass right now. I shall begin by discussing some of Mr Dercksen's points. I owed him something from the first time, namely to go into the issues of the boas in the outskirts a little further. These boas are employed by the municipality, province, Natuurmonumenten, Staatsbosbeheer and private nature managers. Much of their work is concerned with the enforcement of environmental legislation and the local regulation. Boas of Natural Monuments are often equipped with a weapon, but State Forestry does not want that, for example. I went to work with the boas and their employers a few weeks ago, at least my official summit. Their equipment was also discussed in this context. Employers use the so-called necessity criterion. What equipment is needed depends on the type of tasks. At the moment, State Forestry is thinking of equiping the boas with baton and pepper spray. This is the subject of an application which I will soon assess. Then I come to the question you asked about Mr Van Riessen's comment. He would have said in 2007 "you should kill him" or words like that. Whatever the question of how this should be qualified in criminal law, I say that as a minister I do not deal with such an individual issue. But I would stress that after 2007 it was decided not to prosecute. There was an Article 12 procedure for that. I mentioned that procedure three or four times in the first period. I keep saying that. This is the appropriate way in our rule of law to express the displeasure of a decision by the prosecution to prosecute, and to ask for legal consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u228	I think you are playing down the remark, because I have looked in the dictionary. "Mills" means destroying something until it doesn't work anymore. In the case of a politician, this means that he or she has been physically abused that he or she can no longer perform his or worse his or her duties. So we shouldn't lift too lightly. I was slightly given the impression that the Minister did. But we must not ignore the fact that the D.A. has independent jurisdiction. What if that had been about another politician? Then the world would have been too small! You said it was a disgrace. In that individual case, you would have said it was a disgrace. I'm sure. The whole cabinet would have said it was a disgrace. But now that it's about Geert Wilders, it's not being discussed, or it's being discussed trivially, and the DA's office has been absorbed in deep rest. That is exactly what I wanted to demonstrate in my contribution. We have two states of law: one for the politically correct Netherlands and one for the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u229	A few things: I certainly don't want to trivialize it. I was born and raised Amsterdams and I know what "mollen" means in Bargons in Amsterdam. That's not fresh. That's very clear. I have done some descriptive work because, in all honesty, I cannot, through you to Mr Dercksen, put these remarks in my memory. Anyway, it was 2007. But I would like to stress here that there is no indication in my mind that the Public Prosecutor's Office's decisions on persecution and such matters are guided by political motives; quite the contrary. Then I'd like to ask you about the police and fortifications. Why is the police organizing them, or does they participate in them? The police are from and for everyone. I leave it to the police forces themselves to determine, of course within the limits of the rule of law, how best to design policy locally, how best to be in contact with the population and what activities it involves. Police units therefore have a variety of activities. This also depends on the region or on the neighbourhood in which one is located. In addition to the eitar meals, the police join all kinds of events and commemorations, such as Pride Amsterdam and Christmas celebrations. I believe that police participation in such activities will ensure that the police remain in touch with society. You should know that in the EU I am not under any illusions that we in the Netherlands are nevertheless proud of the way in which the police have managed to achieve that anchoring in the community through the principle of the district agent. Then you had a question about 1,400 underage girls who are or would be victims of trafficking every year. What does the government do about it? Here's the deal. The Secretary of State for Justice and Security, in whose portfolio is the subject of trafficking in human beings, presents an action plan on trafficking in human beings, which will, of course, address the problems of these underage girls and also the loverboy issue in detail. Then I'll come to Mrs. Bikker. I don't want to make a misunderstanding about it. Nor is it a game of words or something: of course it makes no sense to consider any legislative measure isolated. I can tell you that the various evaluations will be as coherent as possible and that we will also give this point to the researchers who are stepping up these evaluations. I am quite honest in saying that this is not the same as all the evaluations are being carried out at the same time. You will understand that a specific law has one evaluation date and another law only comes a lot later, on two. Then you can't have looked at the coherence at number one, but you can look at it reasonably. If I may explain your motion with letter T like this, I'll give her without further ado Chamber. Then I would like to say to Mrs Van Bijsterveld that I do intend to have discussions with the important stakeholders in the file on the formation of the national police about their views on the formation of the national police so far, also in connection with the Kuijken report. I must say quite frankly that these important stakeholders have not been heard on this subject in recent times, as far as they have not yet spoken or as far as they have not yet given their views, in the context of the policy letter that I have announced to you and which is going to the House of Representatives very soon. 'Cause if I don't, I'm gonna go back to parties again. I think I know, let me say with caution that, for example, the mayors have already spoken in detail in the run-up to that policy response. I consider them important stakeholders. In any case, I hope I have answered you with such satisfaction. I would like to say, by the way, that it is not entirely clear whether a question has been asked about this and that I would like to take the opportunity to visit the church of Winschoten. In my student days I have had the habit of often inviting me, even if that was not the intention of the other side. I am very happy to go to Winschoten for a church visit as part of my duties as Minister of Honor, but above all in the context of the debate we have discussed today. Here's to it. That is what Mrs Bikker, perhaps Mrs Vlietstra and I are organizing in the month of October or November; we need to see what is best. I think that's what I've been talking about. I would like to conclude with Thorbecke, who has been mentioned a great deal today, Madam President. At one point Thorbecke was wrong, as has been proven to me today. He called your Chamber "without land and purpose." He was wrong about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u230	You clearly said "unequal," didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u231	I said "unlikely," yes. The microphone went off for a while, but I said "unlikely."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u232	It was kind of a night candle word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u233	Like "a driving force," I also said "unlikely."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u234	Thank you! I now give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u235	Mr. Chairman. I turn to the questions and finally give an opinion on the two motions for resolutions that have been tabled. Mr Backer took back the financing and financing of the judiciary. He said: in the end, that is inherently not businesslike. You can put up a tree about that. When you look at the amount of business and the logistics processes involved, I think it is always good to look at the business processes and what is still possible with them. More generally, the following. The High Council and the Council of State were given the same mandate in the previous period. They have managed to process this in a fairly neat way within their existing organizations. I would almost like to give justice the challenge: if colleagues succeed, try to do so. Of course you always have to see what's possible. When the state of law is at stake, I will certainly come back to you. But I don't think you can say in advance that you can't. I think I answered directly the questions put by Mrs Strik and Mrs Vlietstra on this subject. Mrs Strik asked a question about the reduction in the number of cases and said that it is not necessarily a blessing. I understand. I meant to say that the combination of professional standards and a falling business influx gives more air to the organization if you look at the experienced workload. It can have a positive effect on that. Furthermore, we need to look at what is at all the cause of the decline. Can you explain it positive or negative? The research that the Verwey-Jonker Institute is doing into the non-use of justice by law seekers can give us a better insight into this. I expect this to be ready for the summer. We're definitely gonna take KEI's classes. I will include them in particular on this route and in my own ministry. In the letter that I hope to send before the summer, I will indicate on which parts we will make concrete what lessons we have learned for the future, and how we will shape KEI in a different way with the Council of Justice and turn things around. Then there is Mrs Strik's question on legal aid. First of all, I would like to thank her for the positive words about the contours. That's very nice. It is also special to lift a tip of the veil here. At the same time, we're trying to open it up. In the meantime, there were also other parties who were aware of the direction in which it is going. Mrs Strik asked herself more specifically: 'I do not know if that was meant rhetorically 'whether you can really think freely if you have to go within existing financial frameworks'. I don't know if that was completely rhetorical or not. It may be a little faint to say freely to the rules of Jules Deelder: the space within the limits is as limitless as it is outside. I have seen recently that, precisely by saying that the financial frameworks are set, there is a lot of creativity, because it also provides clarity. I notice that when we started the discussion on legal aid, it was very much about whether or not we need more money. Then it'll be such a discussion. At least that framework is now in place. It is not a small sum: 400 million, we should not be ashamed of that. International competition is one of the summits of Europe. That makes the mind ripe to think about how to ensure that we use these euros as best we can. Then there is the question of asylum matters and the impact assessment. I don't feel free to talk about that here. This has to do with the fact that my colleague Harbers is more involved in the matter and knows the finesses. I would therefore ask you to include this in the debate on flexible asylum procedures. How are we going to guarantee alternative dispute resolution in concrete terms? There's an investigation from the WODC. It depends a little on the form of alternative dispute resolution. Mediation, for example, is in fact a liberal profession. For this, we are looking at legislation and we are talking to the sector about what to do about the introduction of quality standards, for example, in order to regulate and shape it more. However, in other forms of alternative dispute resolution, such as arbitration, legal proceedings, certain quality requirements are set out, including in the law, on which the judge tests. Only now, for example in the case of e-Courts, we see that questions have arisen as to how this is to be assessed. The quality requirements are then there, but it is more a question of how they should be applied. It will therefore depend a little on the form of alternative dispute resolution how we implement it. Mrs Strik's questions on technological developments and their vision are included in the opinion on Mrs Duthler's motion. Mrs Vlietstra asked about the judiciary: is it within a reasonable period of time on strength? I indicated that there were additional judges in 2017 compared to the year before. The number of cases is also falling, so you also need fewer judges. The Court of Justice has previously indicated that this year the additional demand would have been met. For the rest, I have no signals that that would be different now. Mrs Vlietstra further asked about the support of experiments in the financial sense. I indicated in the first period that the amounts involved were so small that I believe that the Council should have to cover them for the case-law itself. They themselves have indicated that this can be done. Each organisation has to figure that out for this type of new way of working itself and must find room for this within its own budget. The follow-up, a structural roll-out, is of course a completely different story. Then we'll have a conversation. Then there's the letter on legal aid after the summer. It is true that that is well formulated, but if I put "for Prince's Day" behind it, it is a remarkable period. At least that's our ambition. Then we were asked about our perspective: do we take into account low incomes in the outline note for the new legal aid scheme? Yes, of course, that is what legal aid is for, so I will take that explicitly into account. Mrs Bikker asked questions about technological developments in relation to privacy. I'll come back to that later, at the motion. I now stand still at Tjeenk Willink, because then I don't have to come back to it in a letter. I read in Herman Tjeenk Willink's articles a call not to lose sight of the primary task of judges. In fact, to put it in the foreground. That's what he sticks to to stop management thinking. I fully agree with that first one. In my view, there is also a lot of attention to this, for example when you look at the professional standards, how innovation is now being worked on with experiments and other ways of working. That's really about the content of justice. But I also think there should be good governance. Important decisions need to be taken at national level, for example on digitalisation. In this respect, the present time may require a different form of governance than 30, 40 years ago. What I just don't read back in the articles of Tjeenk Willink is what the handles are to give precisely to that powerful action and that powerful governance. So I agree with him that we should not lose sight of the content, but it is and-and, as far as I am concerned, it is. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked about the experiments, perhaps also to cover the disappearance of canton dishes. That is clearly the case with neighbourhood judges. We'll see how that works, if that actually provides for a question. Evaluation will have to determine whether this really is the case. Mrs. Van Bijsterveld also mentioned a whole pride of pieces that she still gets. She also asked for a tip of the veil to be lifted about the WRR report Knowing is not yet a thing. In the meantime, the government has written a letter on this subject, in which this test has also been developed. In particular, it will monitor future legislation and regulations, as we have implementation tests. In fact, you want legislation and regulations to reflect on the citizen's perspective. So we are going to do this by default in the rules on how legislation is to be implemented. In addition, we have identified a number of cases, where you are dealing with existing regulation but also with new measures as announced in the government agreement, where we want to go a little deeper. Those are the three I mentioned: divorces, debt problems and unused allowances. Warrior fees. Yeah, important point. I firmly believe that there is one pain point and that is just above the €500 threshold for legal persons. For inability, it's already very low. For natural persons it varies a bit, but it's always my eyes to do. It's always connected to the claim you have. But here you're just sitting at one of those tilting points. If you have a debt of €600 and you have to deposit €500 Registry fees, you can of course always reason that you will get them back if you win the case. Anyway, we hear back it's a problem there. This is also monitored by the elaboration of the scenarios at the request of the House of Representatives. Mrs. Duthler asked about KEI. Will we continue to inform about this? We are certainly going to do that, with the periodic progress reports but as much earlier as necessary. I have already said that we are going to do everything we can to achieve a realistic path. If this requires the most radical measure, then so should we. I hope not, but if I have to, I have to. Before the summer we hope to let you know more about it. Alternatives to legal aid. Yeah, we're definitely looking at that. We have done so in the past, but in this round we do so again. All good ideas and options are welcome in thinking about a new system of legal aid. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the motions. The first motion, which, with the letter U by Mr Ruers and a number of others, calls for a fundamental review of the RO Act. I'm gonna dissuade them. The law was evaluated by the Deetman Committee in 2006. In 2017, the law was even amended with the Judicial Card Review Act. It has been evaluated by the Kummeling Committee and, in fact, it says: "Don't mess with that system again." I think that Mr Ruers and I have a fundamental difference of opinion regarding the independence of justice. I think it's really secured. Of course, we set the budget for justice, but the alternative would be to work with some kind of open-ended arrangement. At least I'm not in favour of that. Mrs Duthler's motion with letter V addresses the cabinet's position on the digital transformation. Maybe this is what I'd like to suggest. Perhaps Mrs Duthler would be willing to hold the motion if I were to put her on the table, but also, in fact, Mrs Strik, because she also asked in full when exactly what is going to be written to indicate exactly what is going on at national level in research and advice applications, but also in Europe, for example in relation to the Committee of Authorities, but also in relation to what the Commission itself is doing to prevent data manipulation. Digital transformation is indeed a very versatile theme. On the basis of this inventory, I can also indicate when we are going to respond to what exactly. Then you can indicate whether that is integral enough or not. I hope so, because that is what we are trying to do. But if you don't, you can still file that motion or call me to your house.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u236	Thank you for your commitment to send a letter. Is it possible to send that letter to this Chamber for next Tuesday's meeting?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u237	I don't think that's gonna work, because this doesn't just affect the JenV ministry. This also requires an inventory of colleagues and a tour of other departments. In fact, I think I really need a few weeks to do that. I can promise you that I will do so well before the summer recess, so that you can decide to put the motion to the vote before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u238	I hear the Minister reporting: a few weeks. June 19th?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u239	I'm gonna try to do it before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u240	Now it becomes "trying"...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u241	I'm gonna do it for the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u242	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u243	You're ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u244	I'm done. It's been a pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u245	The Minister of JenV was ready, too? He didn't have anything else? I see him nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-eerstekamer-6.u246	I propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled, with the exception of Mrs Duthler's motion, as a letter is expected from the Minister for Legal Protection before the summer recess. No, that letter comes! And if that letter is not there, the motion will be put to the vote anyway.
