ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u1	The next item is the debate on the European Summit on 28 and 29 June 2018. I welcome the Prime Minister and give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Now I'm the first speaker again. If I were that fast, or if they were so slow, you'd be wondering. In this debate, like last week, we are undoubtedly going to talk extensively about migration. But while we are doing so, and while European leaders will undoubtedly do so next weekend, the world is of course going crazy. I read in the annotated agenda that it is not yet clear exactly which foreign policy issues will be discussed in the Council. My first question to the Prime Minister is about this. There is so much going on; all we have to think about is the relationship with the United States, with the termination of the climate agreement and the Iran deal, the G7 left behind as a smoking mess, the opening up to North Korea, the trade war, and the interference in the domestic policies of important European Member States through ambassadors and tweets and that sort of thing. In my view, it would be very good and very urgent for the European Heads of Government to reflect on this relationship with the United States. I am very curious whether the Prime Minister agrees with me and whether he sees a chance to deal with that. Maybe that's already on the agenda, but we don't know that yet. Madam President. Then it's about migration. I will comment on the socio-economic agenda after my comments on migration, and I will leave it at that. After the informal migration summit, the Prime Minister was a little bit more optimistic, as I read in the newspaper. In any case, the argument has not gotten any bigger; so I have only slightly interpreted it. I can see from the Prime Minister's body language that that's pretty much how we need to see it. It's raining plans now. That's what the Prime Minister said. In any case, I have seen a French-Spanish initiative, which said in the newspaper that it was about shelter in camps within the EU, and an Italian ten-point plan, which I understood from the newspaper that sending back to the south of Libya is part of it. There is, of course, a Tusk plan, which has been incorporated into the conclusions of the European Council. This is about the concept of regional landing platforms. The question is obvious, of course. Does the Netherlands have a plan? What is the line or plan that the Netherlands is going to use? What's the Prime Minister's plan? Are we behind any of these plans, do we have our own plan or do we not like it all? That seems very important to me for this debate to know. We have, of course, already discussed the platforms quite extensively in the previous debate. I then asked questions about the desirability, the level of reality and the legal sustainability of the plans. At that time, however, it became clear that there were considerable differences of opinion between us on its desirability, at least GroenLinks disagreed strongly with a number of parties in this Chamber. To be honest, I didn't want to repeat that debate. On the level of reality, last week it remained a little vague. Now I noticed that at the end of the summit the Prime Minister mentioned a number of countries, namely Algeria, Morocco, Senegal, Niger, Mali and Nigeria. At least those are the names I made out of the paper. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: what kind of arrangements should this be? Is this about taking back asylum seekers who have been processed with the nationality of that country? Is it about taking over people of another nationality who have also been taken over? Or is it about sending people back to Europe who are trying to get through that country? I think it's very important to know that. The latter, sent back, is now doing Algeria: since May last year it has sent 13,000 people back to Niger, as we heard through a reportage from the NIS. They just got dumped in the desert. If they're lucky, they'll reach Assamaka, a very small village in northern Niger. There they have never seen anything like it: thousands of people walking out of the bloody heat of the desert in the burning sun, weakened by hunger and thirst. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if these stories are correct. I understand that the EU has said: yes, we are aware of this; it is Algeria's own responsibility, except when international treaties are violated. I dare say that that is the case. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether it is at the summit about this kind of thing, which is, after all, directly related to what we are asking them to do. Additional support for the Libyan Coast Guard is also included in the draft conclusions. At the request of the European Commission, an investigation has been carried out into the functioning of the Libyan Coast Guard. The results, which came out through the Guardian, among other things, this week, are not lying. Effects of the training cannot be measured. There is no evidence of human rights education. There's been a lot of misconduct on the part of the Coast Guard people. And the principle of non-refoulement should apply because of the situation in Libya itself. These are some of the conclusions of this research carried out at the request of the European Commission. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he knows the investigation and what conclusions he draws from it. I see I have to hurry again. Finally, as I announced, I would like to say something about what has recently been called 'the French-German engine'. Actually, that engine's turned on. In Schloss Meseberg's statement, I hope I pronounce it well, both countries present many initiatives, from a European Security Council to innovation. The Netherlands immediately wrote a "Doctor No" letter on behalf of the opponents of the euro area budget, at least, as I read in the media. Why hasn't the Dutch government also indicated what it's for? I think it would be wise not only to say no, but also to say yes to things you embrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u4	Thank you? I see some time on my feet, but Mr Verhoeven says that I am wrong about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u5	It was a nice conclusion to your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u6	If Mr Verhoeven says that and if you say that, then it must be true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u9	Then I go to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u10	Mr. Chairman. I would like to focus my contribution on the financial issues that will be discussed within the euro summit, but first I would like to say a few words about migration. In some politicians and in some media, a kind of eagerness arises when it becomes exciting within the European Union. The word "crisis" soon comes to mind. Some people see the future of the Union in serious danger. Who better to judge that than the man in the middle? That is why the question to the Prime Minister is whether the European Union is in crisis and whether the future of the Union is really in danger. During last week's debate on migration, it became clear that the vast majority of this Chamber is in favour of creating reception facilities for refugees outside the European Union. According to the Prime Minister, the countries have not yet been consulted. If this is agreed at the summit, then the question arises as to when these talks will be held and by whom. Can the Prime Minister explain why he suggested that groups of countries be responsible for these talks rather than the Union as a whole? Mr. Chairman. Also because of the time limit, I now come to the euro summit. I have to say the following about the issues that will be dealt with there. Mrs Merkel and Emmanuel Macron did not follow the urgent opinion of 50PLUS. In short, this opinion was as follows: negotiate the price tags, but do not build a transfer union where we are bitten by the cat, the dog and the rest of the pet store. But that's what's happening now. We already have a European stabilisation mechanism, which may soon be called EMF, for the recovery of crises, even if necessary for the recovery of public debt. For convergence investment, we already have the cohesion funds, very large funds from the EU budget. The strengthening of these instruments is negotiable. It would have been fair and sincere to ask for a higher Multiannual Financial Framework for the coming period, from 2021 to 2027. The Commission should have done that. We are not in favour of this, but the Commission should have done so. We cannot accept a separate euro area budget simply because it adds a new, completely unnecessary layer of dynamism and complexity to a Union that needs to be much more efficient. I would like the Prime Minister's confirmation that this cabinet, the Minister of Finance, said last week, is also opposed to a separate euro budget. I know, of course, that the EU and the euro area are not the same. But the limited consequences of this need to be borne in mind by those countries that have opted for an opt-out, not those that are in the euro area. My group also hopes that the Prime Minister will say here that we are not giving away a second Union budget because the French and the Germans would still be owed something from the negotiations on the banking union a few weeks ago. I have raised this issue several times before. As far as my group is concerned, they have absolutely no right to do so. I'm coming to the Banking Union. We would, of course, have preferred that there should be no public backup for the SRF banking fund. The government's view that loans to the SRF should be repaid by the sector itself and, above all, that there should be further proven risk reduction between now and 2023, responds to the concerns of my party among others. But the banking union is a huge structure. The big question is whether sufficient risk reduction can be achieved before reserve funds, back-up funds and haircuts come around the corner. Those are transfers, too. Can the Prime Minister reassure me on this point that the necessary risk reduction in relation to the desired risk sharing in the coming period is actually being considered quantitatively? Banking resolution and deposit guarantee at European level may have great benefits........................................................................................................................................................................................... Another important point in this context is the risk weighting of government bonds on bank balance sheets. The motion of 50PLUS on this issue has recently been welcomed, indicating that this concern is widely shared. Here too, there is a huge risk, which really needs to be addressed before we sign up to sharing risks with certain countries and banks that are not to be mentioned. Fortunately, the cabinet wants to see an adequate risk weighting at political level for this huge balance sheet item. Of course, it is mainly about debt securities that are not safer than Dutch mortgages. Acting like it is, it's like dancing on a volcano. I come very briefly to the enlargement of the Union. What is the current position on Macedonia in view of the previous cautious statements? Can that country join the negotiating table as far as the cabinet is concerned? Finally, Mr President. Through the country-specific recommendations, the Netherlands is once again receiving the European Commission's recommendation to "make the second pillar of the pension system more transparent, intergenerational and shock-resistant." I ask our government how it intends to interpret this recommendation and how it intends to include it in our national debate on the reform of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u12	It is clear that 50PLUS does not appreciate the recommendation in itself. We are totally opposed to this. Hands off the social pension system!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u14	Good on time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u15	Well, minus seven...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u16	Five seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u17	Seven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u18	That's a lot more!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u19	Thank you. Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u20	Mr. Chairman. We are certain that we are helping people in need and protecting the welfare state: that is the task ahead of us. "Human and manageable," said Bram van Ojik in the debate last week. That's not an easy task. It's also very urgent. We believe that certain principles should be the starting point. I've outlined that. It means: do you really want to invest more help for care in the region? As well as controlling the number of people coming here, sending back people who are not entitled to asylum and making more serious work on tackling the root causes of migration. We believe that this can only be done in a good way by working together in Europe. I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister on the energy he is putting into trying to find a European solution. That's important. That is in the interests of the Netherlands. At the same time, we must note that it is very difficult. We see north facing south, we see lands with geographical bad luck and we see east facing west. That is where a breakthrough is needed. It is all the more pressing because, so far, there have been no talks with the countries with which agreements have to be made, such as Tunisia. They have indicated that they are not enthusiastic about this for the time being. It is also pressing because, if we want to take responsibility for receiving care in the region, we cannot close our eyes to what happens, for example, in the desert in Algeria; Van Ojik mentioned that. Agreements with third countries must mean that, in accordance with the standards we have here, we offer people protection in accordance with the conventions and in accordance with the protection of human rights at European level. Otherwise, it's simply at the border to stop looking. We have also heard all kinds of tough statements from Eastern Europe in particular, which are said to have no message. I think an appropriate response should be given to this. It is also time to ask the Prime Minister, in a European context, to look at how we can speed up the suggestion of Macron and Sánchez to cut down, and see whether there should be a leading group of countries that realise that Europe is more than a cafeteria and that open borders cannot be if you do not guard the external border, but also if you do not show solidarity in the task of protecting vulnerable people, who Europe also has. Because that is beyond us. Europe will always have to protect people on this continent, albeit in a regulated way. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what concrete steps he intends to take to form such a leading group. Then there's the Meseberg agreement. There we see that the choice of the Hoekstra strategy and the naysayers can lead to a brake force, but we can still have less influence. Where the Prime Minister says in the migration debate that he wants to move forward in the Dutch interest, we see mainly a brake here. That is a pity, because in a Europe that protects, much more must be done to combat tax avoidance, the race to the bottom. We are talking tonight about the dividend tax and the stone that the Netherlands wants to contribute to the erosion of tax payments by companies, but a motion has been passed that calls on the government to fight such a race to the bottom. Secondly, I call competition on working conditions between countries and workers. That is an incredibly important theme. In my view, it is one of the causes of the discontent over Europe that has led to the Brexit. That also lives here and in many other countries. I therefore ask the Prime Minister not only to look from a distance at the Franco-German axis and say what we are all against, but also to formulate what the Netherlands is for. We have incredibly much to gain from this and, more importantly, European citizens have a lot to gain from it. Still, the first theme I've touched is even bigger. That is really about who we are in Europe and what values we are pursuing. I think it is a good thing that the migration debate is not just saying what the other person is doing wrong, but that we are looking for solutions that reduce control and put humanity first. In this respect, I wish the Prime Minister not only good luck, but also hope that we can find an answer worthy of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u21	Thank you. And it seems that it can also be done in shorter speaking time than is indicated. Then I will go to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the subject is as topical as it was last week and even more topical, because we have heard that the boat Lifeline has been floating around in the storms of the Mediterranean and that Malta has once again indicated that it is not going to dock. Europe must therefore make a decision in the coming weekend. We expressly said in the previous debate, but also in the previous one, that we do not exclude the need to make migration deals. At the same time, we have said that these must be accompanied by two things. They must comply with international conventions, the Refugee Convention, and they must be accompanied by that much-needed resolution. Because if we then select and make a distinction, then the Netherlands and Europe must also be prepared to allow a fair redistribution of Europe. Can the Prime Minister confirm once again that if there are deals that meet the conditions of the Refugee Convention? Last week, the Prime Minister said that there was not one concrete plan and that there was no discussion with a specific country at the time. We're a week away and we hear all kinds of plans. Mr Van Ojik has listed a number of them. There are also ideas to talk concretely with countries from North Africa. Mr. Chairman. Italy is now closing its borders or ports. So concrete results must be achieved quickly. What does the Prime Minister now think of the idea of talking in groups or couples with North African countries? Does he think that's a good idea? Is that inevitable? Previously, he said: let's stick together, because in the end we need a common plan. How's he looking at these couples now? Mr. Chairman. As I have already said, there must be a solution to the current urgency. There'll be more boats heading for Italy. What are we gonna do with those boats if Italy keeps refusing them? Do we have a plan B? Are we going to forward them to Spain? Are we going to select them and redistribute them over Europe? The next few days will have to be clear, otherwise there will be more victims than before. Mr. Chairman. How does the Prime Minister look at the French and Spanish proposals to make countries that do not cooperate pay financially? The plans of the new Multiannual Financial Framework state that the Structural Funds can be used to finance reception in Europe. Does that still have the Prime Minister's support? Is that proposal being discussed this weekend? Will the Prime Minister support that? There must be a financial perspective and there must be a solution to this redistribution. Then I'll move on to the next topic, Mr. President, unless you say there's an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u23	Interrupt! Interrupt! Interrupt! Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u24	I have a clear question for Mr Voordewind. On the asylum procedure outside Europe, I have an interesting letter from the Meijers Commission. They are experts in refugee law. It says you actually have four variants. It can be done by the UN. It can be done by a third country. It can be done by the EU or it can be done by Member States. Can you indicate the preference of the Christian Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u25	The four coalition parties agreed in the coalition agreement that a third safe country to be designated would have to comply materially with the Refugee Convention. This means that there must be an asylum procedure, there must be safe reception and there must be access to education and care. Under these conditions, we want to co-operate with the cabinet and see if we can get to shelter in those North African countries, coupled with resettlement towards Europe for the refugees, as I said just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u26	I understand. But do I have to understand that it is not decisive for you who is doing this procedure, the UN, the Member States or the EU? Are you saying it has to meet those conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u27	That is the framework we gave the cabinet. We will assess the migration agreement on that. Then I will move on to two other topics. The first one is about defense, the defense fund. The new Multiannual Financial Framework allocates large sums to the European Defence Fund. If the smaller Dutch companies are not reduced by this fund to suppliers of the large German and French industries, I ask the Prime Minister. How does this fund relate to the Dutch decision to make greater use of Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which should give more preference to Dutch industry? This will also allow strategic national interests to be taken into account for our own defence industry. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. Then I would almost say the Balkenende Union, but it is the banking union. I don't know if that first one exists. As far as further steps in European Monetary Union are concerned, we support the commitment of the cabinet. We do have concerns about some of those plans. How does the Prime Minister see the proposed acceleration in completing the Banking Union? How unacceptable does the Prime Minister find Macron, and now Merkel, to set up their own budget for the euro area countries? How likely is Dutch resistance to this? Finally, Chairman, the MH17. It is a good thing that attention has been paid to this and that the Netherlands has once again asked the European Council to call on Russia to take its responsibility and to participate in the investigation into the downfall of the flight MH17. It is also good that there is broad support for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u28	Thank you. Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by expressing my appreciation for the commitment of the cabinet as expressed in the annotated agenda, but also in a number of recent speeches by the Prime Minister, for example against the proposed expenditure of 1.3% of GNP and against symbols such as the European army. Also with the Prime Minister's comments on the need for continued cooperation with the US, not only because of security but also because of shared values, the SGP strongly agrees. There are a few questions in the agenda before us. First of all, I would like to raise the issue of migration. That's one of the most perplexing issues on the table. The SGP supports exploring opportunities for reception and assessment of migrants beyond Europe's borders. In doing so, we point out that, in all the clarity and clarity required by this policy, it is essential that fellow-humanity is said to be Biblical: charity is and remains a fundamental starting point. This means, in practice, a proper European monitoring of the humane implementation of the agreements with third countries and, indeed, that genuine refugees must continue to be able to stay in Europe. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister a reflection on the aspect of humanity in the proposals made at the European mini-summit and which are now before us again. Unfortunately, it seems that the EU is not yet coming out. It is therefore advocated that the lack of solidarity should have financial consequences and that countries should be able to introduce their own border controls. That could be a realistic perspective. I would like to hear a consideration from the Prime Minister about what this will mean for the Schengen area and specifically for the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Protecting the rule of law is an important fact. Often, Poland and Hungary are mentioned in one breath. As far as we are concerned, we must, above all, remain in dialogue on the sovereignty and individuality of Member States. For this reason, dialogue with and between Member States, according to the SGP, is preferable in principle to legal procedures. In this connection, a question to the cabinet: can the Prime Minister explain the support for Article 7 procedures by the Commission? Why should such procedures be necessary or effective? Mr. Chairman. On the Multiannual Financial Framework, we want to be clear: we do not want any further increase, in line with a motion adopted in April. This motion calls on the government to commit itself to reducing the Multiannual Financial Framework and to prevent the Netherlands from making a significant contribution to closing the funding gap as a result of the Brexit. It's a good thing this is the cabinet's commitment. I'm gonna underline that one more time. My question to the Prime Minister relates to his remark in the European Parliament that the MFF is spent 70% on what he called yesterday's priorities, on which you must save money in order to make money available for other matters. Can the Prime Minister explain what he sees as yesterday's priorities and what he sees as tomorrow's priorities, for which money must be released? Finally, Mr President, EMU. In our view, the biggest problem with EMU is not that the cake should be made bigger, so that the euro should have a wider reach. The main problem is the fundamental and structural inequality between Member States, which makes reforms and changes in national economies very unlikely. We are faced with a construction error on the part of the EU, as we mentioned in our own initiative paper on the future of Europe. We note that the economies are not converging, as was supposed to be, but diversifying. That requires a different approach. We note that the European Commission's proposals are constantly aimed at increasing the scope of the euro. That's a matter of concern, isn't it? So our question is: how does the Chamber remain involved in the decision-making process of a banking union and its billion-dollar transfers before irreversible steps are taken at EU level? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u31	Thank you, Mr President. While it sometimes takes the Chamber some effort to get the Prime Minister here for Question Time, he did give home in Strasbourg, where he actually presented a vision of the future of the European Union to Members of the European Parliament, at least for those who were present. The Prime Minister did not draw full rooms, but I can reassure you, Prime Minister: that was not your fault. This is what the average turnout looks like on an average EP day. So you would think that the EP could easily miss those 73 British seats after the Brexit, but nothing could be further from the truth. However, the amount of empty seats did not mention the enthusiasm with which Prime Minister Rutte's contribution to the European Parliament was welcomed. The standing ovation that the Prime Minister received from Guy Verhofstadt afterwards said enough about the content of his speech. I think Prime Minister Rutte can forget that standing ovation here this afternoon, if it's up to me anyway. Because speaking as Prime Minister of the Netherlands, he did not speak on behalf of the Party for Freedom. A job interview: that's what his speech was called. The Prime Minister denies in all keys. In any case, it was a fervent plea for and a sign of full commitment to the European project. Mr. Chairman. I can, of course, mention everything that the Prime Minister has said, but above all what he has not said is important. Not a word about the EP having to stop all this interference, about the fact that the Netherlands is demanding a lower contribution and about stopping the facilitation of the Islamisation of Europe. The Prime Minister applauded the democratic values that link Europe, but forgot to say that it is the same EU that put pressure on them: by importing Islam, facilitating terror and ignoring the results of referendums. It is also hypocritical that yesterday the European Parliament adopted a report which takes Hungary into account, with the support of the CDA and led by Mrs Sargentini van GroenLinks, who has carried out a study which, of course, was already determined, because countries that do not bow to Brussels dictatorships must of course be punished. A sovereign country with a democratically elected government may soon lose its right to vote in the Council, which, of course, would suit the EU elite, as Hungary is one of the few supporters of a strict immigration policy. Meanwhile, Turkey is still a candidate country and Brussels is still transferring taxpayers' money to Erdogan's dictatorship. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister to this report. Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister Rutte could have also told the European Parliament, which is screaming murder and fire to find a solution to the migration crisis, that it is also at the root of the EU's call for asylum in 2015 and all the consequences that we are currently experiencing. Years of calls from the EP and the European Commission for open borders and explaining the red carpet to all those who managed to reach the EU had had an effect. Hundreds of thousands of people came here to seize our prosperity and with them came terrorists to sow death and destruction. Member States that oppose redistribution were almost proverbially hung on the tallest tree. It is the same asylum crisis that Prime Minister Rutte had to go to an extra summit last weekend. If we can believe the newspapers, there is once again precious time wasted, time in which the Netherlands itself could have closed the borders, so that we can decide for ourselves who we let in and who we don't. It has rained in recent days, as the Prime Minister himself said, proposals and statements from politicians. The European Commission has also put a hand in the bag, not only by first convening an informal meeting, but also by making a proposal to the Council as an elephant in a porcelain cabinet. What does Prime Minister Rutte think of the role the European Commission is playing here? Is this not another example of the political role which the Commission should not have? As part of the migration summit, I still have a number of questions. What proposals were on the table last Sunday? Which ones have been wiped off the table? What is the expectation of the forthcoming summit? What's going to happen exactly? Does the Prime Minister expect to adopt conclusions in line with the draft conclusions that leaked last week? Or yesterday's version? Or maybe there's another variant? Will there be any agreements at all, or will there be talk alone again? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. Next Thursday, the Prime Minister will speak to his fellow Heads of Government, not only about migration but also about the money. Officially, it is only about the timetable for the negotiations on the multiannual budget, but I can imagine that the content will be discussed in the corridors. How many Member States, I am asking the Prime Minister, are actually aiming for a smaller budget for the European Union? What arrangements does he expect to make with regard to the procedure and the timetable? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u32	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. I now give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u33	Mr President, thank you. I say it very often here: the European Union must solve the major cross-border problems. Migration is an important part of that. This is an excellent subject for the European Union to deliver. It is also one of the most important issues at the forthcoming summit. We also had a debate on this last week. The VVD wants the European Union to be ready before a new wave of migration begins. This flow of migration to the European Union and to the Netherlands must be controlled, both for us and for those who cross the Mediterranean and consider doing so. This also means, among other things, the reception of migrants in the region, as proposed by my colleague Malik Azmani in the past. If this does not happen, we risk losing people's confidence in the European Union. Then we run the risk of closing Europe's internal borders. This in turn leads to large traffic jams with trucks. This is not in the interests of the European Union, but certainly not in the interests of a trading country such as the Netherlands. Last weekend there was a mini-top; colleagues have already mentioned it. The question is, what was on the table? What were the differences between countries, but also within countries themselves? For example, I'm looking at our eastern neighbours. And where I see the ambassador of Hungary in the gallery were the Visegrád countries? Maybe the Prime Minister can say something about that. The most important thing is what the Minister expects from the forthcoming summit and when he expects a solution, an agreement. Then the Brexit. Politics in the United Kingdom remains divided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u34	I do not want to repeat last week's debate, but Mr Mulder now says, "Well, do you know what would be a good idea? Reception in the region. Then they don't have to cross." Is he aware that 90%, 95% of the reception of the global flow of refugees is already taking place in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u35	I'm aware of that. And I thought: let me take the opportunity to praise my colleague Malik Azmani once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u36	This debate was held in detail last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u37	I know, that's why...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u38	Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u39	But if you say 'it seems like a good idea to take care of refugees in the region' and you do not mention that 90% is already being taken care of in the region, then my question to Mr Mulder is the following. We can think differently about the final solution, but can he also see the risks? Or does he say, "That's Columbus' egg?" Or does he see that there are risks of vulnerability, instability and all that? That's actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u40	I won't say that's Columbus' egg. We need to do many more things, such as trying to address the reasons for migration. We must also, of course, take a close look, as Mr Voordewind has already said, that it is all happening under decent conditions. So I will not say that this is Columbus' egg, but it is part of the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u41	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u42	Then the Brexit. As I said, British politics is divided, both parliament and the cabinet. At this summit in June there should be a breakthrough across the Irish border, so that it becomes a border without problems. That is not the case. Since March, there has been hardly any political dialogue between Barnier, the Commission's negotiator, and the United Kingdom. We have also not yet seen a so-called white paper by the British indicating how the Irish problem is being solved and what the future relationship looks like. So the probability of a no-deal scenario is increasing. "No deal" doesn't mean transition either. How does the Prime Minister see this and is the Dutch government and are the Dutch companies prepared for it? Can he go into that? Mr Van Rooijen said that we discussed Albania and Macedonia in detail last week with the Foreign Minister. He went with a number of messages to the General Affairs Council, the European Council's portal. What is the state of play now? What about the accession negotiations? They are not real negotiations, because it is mainly a test of whether the countries meet the criteria. Much has been said about the euro area. We have talked about fiscal capacity, a separate euro area budget. It is clear that the Netherlands is not in favour of this. The Minister of Finance has formed an alliance with eleven other countries. Compliments for that! This is how you do it: not only find something, but also find allies. But what's ahead of us in the next week? What can we expect of decisions? Mr President, two more points. President Macron's European Intervention Initiative is about Defense. The Netherlands signs the so-called letter of intent, but are we not at risk of duplicated efforts, as it is called neatly? Aren't we going to do the same thing as NATO and the EU Battlegroups? Can the Minister respond to that? Finally, MH17. Mr Voordewind ended up with that too. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is also very good for the European Council to support the identification and extradition of suspects and to promote truth finding towards the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u43	Thank you. Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u44	I see you looking, Mr. Chairman, but I really only need eight minutes. I have been cutting off my speaking time just like a madman to cut my speaking time a little bit! There will be no unnecessary word coming out of my mouth during this input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u45	We'll keep an eye on that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u46	Mr President, we've been at it for ten seconds. It is clear that the Franco-German axis is working. After Macron's speeches it took a while, but now there's something really there: a joint statement with proposals on many topics. It runs from migration to euros and from climate to defence. What about the Netherlands? The Netherlands did not sit at the table, while our Prime Minister has such a strong position in Europe. One of the most powerful players, Politico even wrote recently. And rightly so! It is clear that our Prime Minister has influence in Europe. In addition, although recently, he also has a vision of where to go with the European Union. I am thinking of his speech last week in Strasbourg. He said there: "The EU is not just a market. No, the EU protects us and brings stability and security." So I'm literally quoting from the Prime Minister's speech. Nice words! I couldn't have said it better. Not only do I like to give these compliments, but I don't give them for nothing. It includes the request to use this influence and vision: not just words but results, not waiting but talking at the table, not constantly on the brakes but behind the European wheel. It is good that the leaders of two major influential countries agree, but a broader basis for their proposals is obviously needed. The logical question is therefore: will our Prime Minister support Merkel and Macron's plans? I'm just gonna pick out two proposals right now. The first proposal is that Germany and Frankijk want to get rid of the vetos when it comes to foreign and security policy. Will the Prime Minister support them in this? The second proposal I would like to highlight is that Merkel and Macron are proposing to create an EU strategy for a fully climate-neutral Europe. Is the Prime Minister prepared to follow Macron and Merkel in this? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u47	A quick question. What do you like about Macron and Merkel agreeing? I think it's more important what we think. So what do you think of that deal? Where does that lead? We're on the sidelines if that's what you think and support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u48	No. Mr Van Rooijen's group and many other groups are making sure that the Netherlands is on the sidelines. But the Netherlands is not on the sidelines at all! The Netherlands has a very influential position. I have even spoken here of the French-German-Dutch triangle, rather than always looking at that axis with fear. I think it is an opportunity for two influential leaders with a positive, progressive European agenda, which also focuses on action, to find each other. I believe that we should take advantage of the opportunity and that our Prime Minister, who is the fourth most experienced or longest-standing government leader, should use his influence and knowledge of all the dossiers to move things forward, rather than saying 'not this, not this and not this'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u49	50PLUS isn't on the sidelines at all. We fully support the cabinet's stance in Brussels. It is completely opposed to Macron and Merkel on this point when it comes to the separate euro budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u50	Absolutely, and also completely to D66's, I might add.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u51	You said we're on the sidelines.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u52	Well, you're standing aside because you're just saying, "We don't want this, we don't want this and we don't want this." I am trying to ensure that the Netherlands is not sidelined, but that the Prime Minister's influential position as one of the experienced Heads of Government is used to move a number of things forward. So that's where we're very different from strategy. This is not a problem in this case, but it does ensure that 50PLUS is one of the parties that puts the Netherlands aside when it comes to European discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u53	We're not gonna talk in general. I note that D66 agrees with the idea of 50PLUS not to support the separate euro budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u54	Well, that doesn't follow in any way from everything I've said, so I don't know how you concluded that. I am just saying that the Netherlands must try to use as much influence as possible instead of constantly stepping on the brakes everywhere. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u55	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u56	Mr. Chairman. I just came to the point of migration. This forthcoming summit is, of course, also of great importance for a European response to the asylum issue, not just to follow national interests, but to take responsibility together and show solidarity. Last Sunday, of course, there was already a meeting in Brussels on migration and before that here in the Chamber. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, also with his way of looking and knowing what the value of certain things is, because that is better than anyone else in the Netherlands, which he believes has resulted in. How does he look at Angela Merkel's proposal to agree on asylum policy with a smaller group of countries if necessary? Mr. Chairman. Last week, the House of Representatives also debated President Tusk's proposals. My party still has a lot of questions. Where should the so-called "out-of-the-EU" asylum seekers be located and how are we, as Europe, going to ensure that they are really safe and within the limits of and respecting the Refugee Convention? Yesterday, there were disturbing reports from Algeria, and Mr Van Ojik also mentioned that thousands of migrants, including pregnant women and children, were left by Algeria in the Sahara. I take it the Prime Minister has absolutely no intention of doing this. Is Europe really going to welcome and transfer those with genuine refugee status to Europe generously, as well as looking at legal migration routes? Has the Prime Minister answered and can he guarantee the guarantees that my party is asking for? Can he go into that, too? Insofar as there are developments in relation to last week's debate, because we do not need to repeat that. Mr. Chairman. In any case, more is needed than an agreement on external reception. New European rules on asylum reception, procedure and redistribution remain of great importance. In the negotiations between the Council and Parliament, agreement had been reached on three major asylum issues. Finally progress, you'd think. But as it turns out, last week the Member States decided not to adopt these asylum laws and put them in the refrigerator for the time being, even though the Council itself was at the table in those negotiations. After all, the compromise is not good enough. I find this really disappointing. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Is the Netherlands prepared to work towards a workable compromise in new negotiations? Mr. Chairman. D66 welcomes the progress made in the field of defence. The PESCO project, in which the European armed forces work together permanently and more closely, is a very good start. My hope is that this cooperation between European armed forces will become even more intense and that they will also be further integrated. My question is: what does the Prime Minister really want in this area? I have complimented him, sincerely, recently, regularly, on his increasing degree of vision. This is a trend that we can really see here: there is an increasing degree of vision among the Prime Minister. It is only in the field of defence cooperation that I find his vision not so clear, because often he does not really say anything about it. I wonder if he'd be willing to do that by now. I'd like a response. Mr President, I feel that you want me to finish my text first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u57	Depends on how long you think you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u58	Well, Mr. Chairman, I can make you happy: another one-and-a-half or maybe two A4s.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u59	I shall go to Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u60	Are all unnecessary things really scraped out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u61	Absolutely! I can assure Mr Van Dijk that there will be no unnecessary word from my side today, but I repeat no word from any of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u63	No unnecessary questions, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u64	Touché.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u65	Well, that's up to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u66	Now we're gonna have to do something. I just wanted to get back to the migration deals. The Prime Minister is busy with that, as we can read everywhere. Mr Verhoeven just said that it is very important for his party that when these deals are concluded, this should also mean that the Netherlands takes its fair share, that there are generous refugees in the Netherlands. That's a good point. What does it mean for the position of D66 if one day the Prime Minister comes to us with a possible agreement and says 'this is an agreement', for example with Tunisia, and because the issue of generous reception is not in place? What does that mean for your position?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u67	It's a really like-dan question. It is initially an interesting question that we will be discussing at that time. But that, of course, depends entirely on what lies ahead. I will then be able to respond to it in clarity and clarity. But to anticipate something that didn't happen right now, I really don't think it's valuable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u68	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u69	That is your right, but the point is, of course, that I wish to ask that we do not have to face up to facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u70	Once, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u71	I have also tabled a motion for a resolution which has been adopted. The Chamber should be able to talk in detail about such a deal, rather than being pushed down our throats. I am glad that I found a supporter in D66 and that you also want to take a good look at these deals and we are not just doing something that, for example, does not lead to the withdrawal of refugees in the Netherlands. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u72	After Mr Van Rooijen, you are the second to try to explain something I have said in a completely different way. Perhaps you could consider a merger of your two parties. But I would like to deal very seriously with the issue that Mr Van Dijk is putting on the table here. Last week, my group chairman made this very clear. We have also supported the Van Ojik motion, which very much affects what you are asking for. I believe that we have always said, at all times in recent times, that we believe that there should be a proper asylum procedure but that we should also take into account the terrible practices that everyone has seen in recent times. Within these frameworks, which have always been clear, we will look very clearly at every proposal the Prime Minister comes back with. Are facts that do not comply with refugee treaties, humanity and a humane approach fulfilled? D66 won't be for that. That seems to me to be in line with the attitude we have always had. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u73	Please continue. You were finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u74	No, I haven't finished yet, Mr. Chairman. That's what you make of it. You're the third in line now. I'll go through my lines soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u75	Before you continue, Mr Van Rooijen. I think this was your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u76	A little provoked by Mr Verhoeven. Of course, I did not want to say that he said something he did not say. Then I misunderstood, excuse me. But it's not like we say other things than you say in general, Mr Verhoeven. But at this point, I misunderstood you. I just wanted to make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u77	Then I don't count that as interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u78	I'll charge myself for that, too, if there was a misunderstanding. That wasn't supposed to happen at all. I was concerned, and I think that is quite clear because it has been shown in recent times, that D66 is more inclined to support certain proposals and move the Netherlands in that direction than Mr Van Rooijen. I think that's pretty obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u79	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u80	I have emphasized this in particular. Apologies for the misunderstandings, Mr. Chairman. Protectionist import charges. Protectionism harms free trade and employment. It damages our prosperity, which we, as the Netherlands, owe mainly to our open economy. This protectionist measure by Trump damages the Dutch steel industry in particular. However, since last week, the EU has backed down on counter-measures, but there is a risk that US taxes on foreign cars will once again threaten us. This will affect the German car industry and will affect the Dutch industry. How does the Prime Minister ensure that Trump doesn't break up the Union? But not only when it comes to import duties, it is necessary to speak with one voice; that is also necessary when it comes to fair tax rules. A clear European position is important in our digital economy. D66 is in favour of a separate European digital tax for Internet giants such as Google and Facebook. Now these multinationals barely pay taxes. I am therefore pleased that the cabinet is taking a constructive approach in this discussion, but there is still room for improvement. How does the Prime Minister ensure that more and greater steps are taken on this dossier? Does he once again join the goal of the duo Merkel and Macron? That's another promising proposal that would be really good. Let us think seriously about this and let us change that as the Netherlands to come to agreements instead of always saying: no, we should not do that. Mr President, my final point concerns the Multiannual Financial Framework, the European budget that we are going to meet for seven years from 2021. D66 has always said: from cows to knowledge and from chickens to climate. In other words, the EU needs to reduce significantly with regional subsidies and agricultural subsidies and focus more on innovation, sustainability and security. That's what the coalition agreement says. That's beautiful. Can the Prime Minister confirm that this shift of funds, this reprioritisation of interests, is his first priority when it comes to budgetary negotiations? The cabinet also focuses on preventing an increase in the European budget. It doesn't want a higher Dutch account. D66 agrees that we need to make so much savings on the cohesion fund and agricultural subsidies. As far as we are concerned, an increased Dutch contribution is not preferable either. We must realise that one way or another you will have to do something if we ask more of Europe when there is less money because of the Brexit. Of course, the outcome of the negotiations cannot be predicted, but D66 also does not want to make false promises to the electorate and therefore does not exclude that the Netherlands will pay more for important EU activities. Many Dutch people feel that we are contributing too much to the European budget, but this will never be removed with the current Dutch commitment. In fact, that feeling is only fed when something is lying and the result is disappointing. We will only get a truly fair European budget if we move away from the current national contribution and move towards direct European funding, for example, a payment based on the amount of unrecycled plastic or on the emissions trading system proposed by the European Commission. My final question is: is the Prime Minister behind the scenes already working with enthusiasm and inspiration to obtain support for this? I'd like to get a reaction to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the rest of the time, I'm giving it to the Chamber of Representatives. That's a donation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u82	I understand that you should never raise false expectations, but I don't understand the way D66 negotiates. Then you're gonna stand here and give away money and say that you think that's acceptable! I don't understand this negotiating tactic. I think that's a little bit of a "how do I say"? Oh, naive. Why does Mr Verhoeven do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u83	I think it is about as naive to say with every microphone: the VVD sees that there are open microphones; so we are not going to give away our negotiating position and so we are demanding this and this. That's about the same thing. I think we have had the negotiating position debate enough. I think it's much more important right now that our commitment is to try to reprioritize with closed wallets. I've always said that. In addition, however, we must stop cheating on voters by making empty or false promises that we cannot deliver. I think your party should have learned that from the past, too. The VVD has too often made a promise that we will be 100% sure that we do not need more money. That promise is not to be fulfilled, so I'm not okay with doing it either. That's what I've been saying. I agree with the commitment that the Netherlands must negotiate very closely and that we have the position to do so, but do so with closed stock exchange and know that the European force field may lead to other results. Just be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u84	Promises are one thing, but I really don't know any negotiator who gives away all his money in advance. I therefore find that an interesting negotiating tactic by Mr Verhoeven. I don't think he's very wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u85	No, but the negotiating tactics of the VVD over the past few years have shown that they made a lot of promises and then came home empty-handed, so everyone said, "Oh, what did the VVD promise they didn't deliver?" D66 is not going to follow that technique, tactics, strategy or whatever you call it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u87	And I thank Mr Van Dijk for his enthusiastic support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u88	Yes. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u89	Mr. Chairman. I thought the VVD and D66 were in a coalition. Then you will also be very curious about last year's negotiations. But that's not what we're talking about today. Today we are talking about the European summit next Thursday and Friday. This summit will probably be dominated by migration and refugees, and perhaps also a bit of the Brexit. Last Sunday there was also an informal summit on migration in Brussels. This summit does not seem to have yielded much. Mr. Chairman. What was most striking is that 12 of the 28 countries were not even present. And it is precisely those 12 countries that do not want to contribute to solving the refugee drama. These countries have a huge lack of international solidarity. As I said last Thursday, an antisocial half ring appears to be developing on the south-east of Europe from countries that no longer want to receive refugees. These are Malta, Italy, part of Germany, Bavaria, Austria, Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. These countries want only the European Union's lust, but not the burden. In their future and recent past, these countries have benefited from the European Union and all its benefits. They have benefited from the Structural Funds, Cohesion Funds and ERDF funds. As far as euro countries are concerned, they have benefited from the EUR 2,500 billion from the European Central Bank's buy-back programme. They have benefited from the trade benefits of the customs union and the internal market. But when boats roamed the Mediterranean in 2015 and 2016, in 2017 and 2018, and some 650,000 refugees came to Europe last year, these countries did not give up. They simply refuse to accept refugees. Mr. Chairman. Hungary is the furthest. By setting up a barbed wire fence, they circumvent the refugee treaties. A refugee can only apply for asylum if he is able to reach the country in question. So yes, if you make that impossible, then as a country you do not have to include refugees, in Hungary's logic. This country makes it even more fury by criminalising aid to refugees. It just shouldn't get weirder. DENK therefore welcomes the fact that Hungary is now being addressed with an Article 7 procedure, just like Poland. This could ultimately lead to the loss of voting rights in the European Council. This is happening for a different reason than the refugees, namely because of the erosion of the democratic rule of law. Mr. Chairman. Some questions to the Prime Minister. Does the Prime Minister share the view that the European Union should be a union of solidarity? Does the Prime Minister share the view that the European Union should not only be a union of desires, but also a union of burdens when it comes to it? Does the Prime Minister share the view that the anti-social countries of the south-east ring should be able to be reduced to the European funds they receive? Can this be taken into account in the negotiations on the Multiannual Financial Framework? Does the Prime Minister share the view that we should introduce conditionality here: no refugees, no money? Does the Prime Minister share the view that excluding refugees should lead to the loss of voting rights? Mr. Chairman. Hungary's logic is now being implemented in a slightly different way by others, including President Tusk and our own Prime Minister Mark Rutte. The idea is to ensure that refugees cannot set foot on European soil; then they are not entitled to a regular asylum procedure. The idea is to intercept refugees at sea and then take them to special selection and landing camps on the African coast. There may be asylum applications and waiting. But these plans are vague. Several versions are circulating. France and Spain think of similar camps, but in Europe. Others are talking about Albania, but of course these last variants do not eliminate the risk of drowning. The African variant has not yet worked out. For example, it is not at all clear whether the African camps want to participate in this. That is why the question to the Prime Minister is: which countries in Africa want to make a concrete contribution to the plans on the table, which are, moreover, vague. Mr. Chairman. The final point is about the suction effect. That is jargon that is often used by right-wing political parties. Every time an initiative comes into being in a municipality in the country, lectures on the right are often indicated by the right: we should not do that here, because that has a sucking effect. I would like to know whether that argument of suction is also being discussed in the European Union. I'm very curious how the Prime Minister sees this. After all, the idea is that these camps would have very good conditions. If we have to believe Commissioner Oettinger, we will have health care and good education for children. These are things that we greatly encourage, but can the Prime Minister rule out the fact that these camps will be filled with people? And what will that mean for the support in those African countries, which we don't really know at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u91	Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u92	Thank you. Mr Omtzigt, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u93	Mr. Chairman. There are major issues on the agenda. For the future of Europe, it is important to work well together on the migration dossier and to ensure that we work well together on the euro dossier, but where we have more common responsibility at first, the countries also have their own responsibility on the second point. It gets messed up sometimes. The migration crisis is not as serious as in 2015. The major difference is the new Italian Government and the failure to set up a functioning European asylum system. Whether last weekend's mini-top was a success remains to be seen. Not all countries were present. What is the prime minister's image now? What decisions have been taken and what basis has been found? I would also like to have a response to the question whether the Turkey deal and/or the new Africa Trust Fund have been discussed and whether this will lead to additional payments. It would have been decided that Europe would work on additional resources for European border control and that the EU would reform asylum rules and assist the Italians. Italy does not want to receive more refugees, but the CSU in Bavaria proposes sending refugees back to the country of registration. That goes against the Italian course. It would now be agreed that there is a bilateral deal between Germany and Italy on refugees and asylum seekers, but bilateral agreements between European countries could, of course, significantly undermine the commonality of policies. How does the Prime Minister see this? We're all gonna think in breakaways now. Which leading group is in the Netherlands? Can a consistent policy be developed when different European countries make different agreements in different leading groups? I ask this because this lack of unity can be dangerous. We have open internal borders through Schengen. They are one of the greatest achievements of the European Union, but they are at stake without proper underlying agreements on stronger external borders, the return of rejected asylum seekers, burden sharing and reception in the region. For a country and for the EU as a whole, protecting external borders and determining who is admitted is an absolute core competence, which has been neglected for far too long. I would like to receive a response from the Prime Minister to this European fragmentation and to the question of how Schengen will be maintained and countries will pursue common policies. Mr. Chairman. I agree with the questions that have been raised about migration deals and all the countries that have been raised here. The second important issue is the euro summit. I would like to hear the Prime Minister's assessment of Chancellor Merkel's and President Macron's proposals. Compliments for the Dutch Government and especially for the Minister of Finance for raising together with eleven countries. That is an ever-increasing alliance, which stands up for its own responsibility. You can share risks, but you can't share problems with your neighbors. There's a big difference. It seems that a number of countries prefer to shuffle off their problems. An increasingly large group of countries see that they will then pay the bill. It is important to keep the foot firm, even at this euro summit. In line with the coalition agreement, the CDA is against a euro area budget. Can the Prime Minister assure us that there will be no euro area budget in any way? France and Germany continue to propose this. That would be a transfer union in optima forma. Surely we cannot compensate for wages and unemployment elsewhere through such a macro-economic stabilisation function, perhaps from countries with a somewhat lower retirement age than the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, we have always said that we want to reduce risks first and then share them. Too few steps have been taken in this regard. There is another motion on which the Minister of Finance has promised that the second half will still be implemented: to identify the risks of both monetary policy and the banking system, which are enormous risks and how they are reduced. So I ask the government not to commit to the Single Resolution Fund, unless there is a demonstrable moment at which those risks have been reduced. The government must also refer this to the Chamber and indicate that the risks have been sufficiently reduced. Moreover, I would point out to the government that the SRF is not so much a single bank that gets into trouble. We can all catch that. So we can just turn that over to the banks. The big problem is, of course, if the banking system is in a highly interlinked situation in the euro area as a whole. Then who's gonna catch it? Then you can present an SRF on the ESM, but then the ESM is so empty and you can't just get it back from the banking sector. That's exactly what we want. Mr. Chairman. Are the proposals for a framework for the restructuring of public debt on the agenda? That's exactly what we'd like to see. It seems that technical work on a European deposit guarantee scheme is starting. That's very brittle. We would like to receive the instructions that the Netherlands gives to the people in the technical working group, because there can already be implicit political decisions taken. Germany and France are in that working group. Will the Netherlands also put forward a representative on behalf of the eleven countries? Mr. Chairman. I'll be on the Brexit. First of all, I agree with the words of the co-rapporteur, Anne Mulder. The CDA's Euro delegation organised a conference in Rotterdam, where also chief negotiator Barnier spoke. It was an inspiring, well-visited afternoon. That Brexit lives, at least in Rotterdam, because Rotterdam will suffer from the Brexit. An important question is: are we well prepared? This way there will never be a timely deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u94	I heard Mr Omtzigt call the afternoon "inspiring." What inspired that afternoon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u95	I'll see you in the morning. The Brexit is a huge challenge. And, if I may say so, I think that challenge in the United Kingdom is somewhat underestimated. It's not just going to cause Britain a lot of trouble. That is what the neighbouring countries of Great Britain are going to do, and I will come back to that in a moment, first of all, Ireland, but also countries such as Belgium, the Netherlands and France will suffer greatly. You can really be in favour of the Brexit. But as a tax spokesperson, I am in favour of the Tax Administration, but that does not mean that everything the Tax Administration has done in the last ten years has gone great. You can also see that at the Brexit. You may be in favour of the Brexit, I say to Mr Baudet, but the way in which the British are preparing the Brexit at the moment means that we have a problem. For example, they see the highway between London and Dover as an emergency parking lot to set up customs facilities, because they have no other place where that can happen. And if we don't have a deal on air traffic later, we're gonna have a problem. So if you're gonna do a Brexit, you're gonna have to be sufficiently prepared. That is exactly the question I would like to ask the Prime Minister. What problems does the Dutch government foresee with the cliff edge and what problems still need to be solved for an orderly Brexit? That question does not need to be answered exhaustively now, but I would like to have an extensive letter on it once after the recess, if this is still going on. 'Cause there's gonna be a clamp over there. The Netherlands is better prepared; we have extra people at customs, for example, and that is very sensible. I would much rather conclude with D66 that we do 1,000 extra people in education, or with the SP 1,000 extra people in care, but let me tell you: this country earns its money with imports and exports. If it gets stuck in customs, we have a huge problem that will affect all the other sectors. It is good that the Netherlands is doing this as one of the few countries on time. Very worrying is the Irish-Irish border. I am becoming increasingly convinced that the Irish question will become the millstone of the Brexit negotiations. There's got to be a line where we don't want a line to keep the peace. The EU will not accept the outbreak of the Irish conflict by the Brexit and the British should not want to blow up the Good Friday agreement at the expense of a Brexit deal either. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to transparency. All European Parliaments have now agreed that European leaders should finally respond to our four proposals. We want to see what happens. Let me give you the proposal. What I now have in my hand is the conceptual conclusions. We can't quote from that. The draft conclusions of the Euro Summit are not even seen as parliamentarians. We need to get it leaked off the Internet right now. So very important decisions are being prepared and the concepts still cannot be seen. Colleagues wanted to know what countries are voting for the Article 7 procedure against Hungary. That vote is probably not public, so we do not know which countries are voting in favour and which are voting against. That is the lack of transparency we are talking about. Of course, prime ministers can call each other and make agreements, but when it comes to legislation or important and far-reaching decisions such as migration deals or the euro area, we as a parliament must be able to exercise control. Now all the European Parliaments have said: here are four proposals; Heads of State or Government, respond to them. Can I now hear, after six months, when these proposals will be discussed by the Heads of State or Government and by the Eurogroup? Because the euro group is still more intransparant. We didn't get anything on the euro summit. Yeah, it's easy to point to someone else; I can see it. Even crazier. Mr. Chairman. The Van Helvert motion should not simply be implemented without opening negotiations with Albania. I suppose that's gonna happen at the top, too. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u96	You've spoken for almost ten minutes. Mrs. Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u97	About Hungary. Yesterday, a report by Mrs Sargentini was adopted in the LIBE Committee in the European Parliament. Your colleague Jeroen Lenaers voted for it. He said yesterday about this: "There has been a threat to the rule of law in Hungary. It's not an incident anymore, either. For years, the government in Budapest has ruled on and over the borders of the European rule of law." Do you share this view and are you in favour of initiating an Article 7 procedure against Hungary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u98	I share his concerns about Hungary. I have also expressed these same concerns on several occasions in the Council of Europe Monitoring Committee, which also looks at Hungary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u99	What does that mean for your cooperation with the Hungarian delegation in the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u100	Also when working with others you should be able to tell each other when you disagree. We in the PPE Group are doing this and we are not ashamed of it. I can see that other parties do the same. The PVV does not always have to agree with the Front National, with which it cooperates, to work together on other dossiers. That's a very logical attitude. In fact, only in North Korea do all party members think the same. And let me just not find the model of a party in which I feel at home. So yes, there are differences in the European political family that I belong to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u101	Finally. That you don't always agree, I get it. But the external consequence may be to deprive the Council of its right to vote. Well, that's different than disagreeing on one thing. Do you recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u102	I recognise that there are external consequences and that these consequences are difficult for the European Union. Look how the deficit procedure has been handled. If we consider the rule of law to be important, and this is really at the heart of European cooperation, I think that we should bring it into the European Union through the right mechanisms. I do not distinguish between parties who are members of my political family or who are not members of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u103	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u104	Mr. Chairman. Suddenly he was there, the vision of Prime Minister Rutte, the man who once claimed that a vision is like an elephant taking away the view. He recently had a vision for Europe: a true declaration of love two weeks ago in the European Parliament in Strasbourg. In this epicenter of European waste because of the monthly moving circus, our Prime Minister advocated that richer countries should pay more. That is why I ask the Prime Minister: how much more exactly? How should we see this in the light of his previous statements at the VVD Congress? That's where he says that we don't have to pay a lot more because of the Brexit. That's just different. The Netherlands already pays some 7.5 billion in payments to the EU. If the current proposal comes through, we may be paying an additional 3 billion. That's over a third more. I therefore appeal to the Prime Minister to keep his back straight and to continue to defend the Dutch position for a smaller budget at the forthcoming summit. Mr. Chairman. This European summit may also adopt far-reaching conclusions on defence, including on a European Peace Facility to fund missions. For reasons of speed and effectiveness, our veto on foreign policy is being put at risk. The Prime Minister wrote earlier today to the Chamber that he was open to discussion and willing to explore the possibilities. I don't think that's wise. As a sovereign country, we ourselves deal with our defence and foreign policy. This will also be excluded from the European budget. Do you share the view that this plan goes too far? Then it's about migration. "It's raining plans," said the Prime Minister at the welded migration summit last Sunday. At the same time, few buttons have been cut. Germany and Italy in particular are putting the matter under pressure. Merkel is trying to save her political life. Italy wants more European solidarity on the reception of refugees. That is understandable, as Italy receives by far the most migrants. That is why it is important to seek a structural solution, a solution that puts an end to the terrible boats with thousands of drownings, with smugglers who make big money from it. If the EU succeeds in finding a humane solution to this problem, it is to be congratulated. A humane solution is to put an end to the dangerous crossing without Europe closing for refugees. Europe is not a fortress. Does the government share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u105	Those are clear lyrics. The European Commission and the Dutch cabinet deserve a compliment if they manage to make such a deal. But at the same time, at your own party congress, Mr Van Dijk, another MP said that we shouldn't want that. What's the SP line? Could you, as a spokesperson, say something clear about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u106	Yes, we had a good debate on this last Saturday. There were quite rightly many members, people, who said: is such a deal going well? I think the Christian Union has a lot of concerns about this too, because you can ask a lot of questions about it. Does it comply with human rights? Isn't it gonna make things worse? So we had a good debate on that. Then we came to the conclusion that we are not ruling out deals, agreements, in advance, but that we are going to test them very thoroughly against our terms. And I was just getting there, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u107	In doing so, the cabinet is in fact similar to the SP: it has to meet certain conditions and international conventions. But your foreign spokesperson was much more critical. He said, "We shouldn't get started on that." A foreign spokesperson also influences what happens internationally within a party. Are you on the same page again, or is the foreign spokesperson still saying: shouldn't we get started?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u108	The foreign spokesperson also said: we are not against deals by definition, but what we are seeing now is very worrying. She's right about that. Actually, I was just about to go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u109	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u110	The idea of registration centres in the region can be a solution. You then decide in the region who is eligible for asylum in Europe. That has a number of advantages. People don't have to go on crummy boats anymore. The most vulnerable refugees will then have a fair chance, rather than the people who have the money for the crossing. You're also preventing unlucky migrants from crossing the border. Those centres must meet the conditions. They must comply with international standards and conventions. There must be no violation of human rights. They must be in a safe place. There are serious concerns about these conditions. See, for example, the letter of fire from 21 organisations, including Amnesty and Refugee Work. There is a difference between catching up in the region and locking up in the region. The organisations rightly ask for guarantees of adequate reception and respect for human rights. Can the government respond to this letter? The letter from the Meijers Commission is also interesting. This committee is composed of experts in the field of refugee law. They ask very good questions about so-called landing platforms and logging centres. For example, they mention four variants for the asylum procedure in the region. Can the government tell us which variant it prefers? And can the government answer the other questions in this letter? In addition to all the plans for registration centres, we must make a real effort to address the root causes and improve reception in the region. At the moment, we certainly do not meet that requirement. Take the figures from UNHCR refugee organisation: billions more are needed for reception in the region. The Netherlands should not reduce its contribution either. Mr. Chairman. These are the conditions to which we will review the present plans. It is therefore a good thing that our motion has been adopted: any agreements must be submitted to the Chamber for assent. We do not say no in advance, but we will test them very critically against our terms. Finally. It is possible that far-reaching decisions will be taken next week. Respect national democracy. Perform a detailed debate in accordance with our motion rather than taking decisions through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u111	Mr. Anne Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u112	No, Mr. Chairman, I didn't mean to interrupt. If a party changes its position, you should let that happen quietly, so I didn't want to say anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u113	Nicely prepared. You should try it again at the theater.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u114	I recognize a great deal in Jasper van Dijk's speech. I was wondering if, when we get rid of the smuggling of human beings, he also feels that there should be a system of flexible ceilings, whereby people who are vulnerable to relocation in Europe can be taken care of, rather than the current system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u115	Am I okay with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u116	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u117	I very much agree with that. Of course, provided that it complies with all international conventions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u118	I want to compliment the SP. I really like to see that something is not said no to anything in advance, but that something is looked at in terms of whether something is good enough. I think that is a very nice political line. That really tastes like more, as far as I'm concerned. So I really want to congratulate Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u119	Thank you. Every once in a while, Mr Verhoeven says something sensible. That's what's happening today. He kept his promise not to do unnecessary things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u120	Thank you. Finally, Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u121	Thank you, Madam President. The vast majority of the people in the Netherlands, but also the majority of the Members of Parliament in this house, are constantly telling us not to want the European Union to regulate incredibly much more than it is now. A large proportion of people in the Netherlands even want the European Union to do less structuralally. There has really been a large majority in favour of this for decades: less EU or at least not more EU. And yet we must note, very miraculously, that proposals are constantly on the table for more EU and that more and more issues are being dealt with in many areas from Brussels. How is that possible? Is that a natural phenomenon? Is that a coincidence? Is that because of evil genii in Brussels? In fact, it's all a bit, but it's mainly because the things that the EU now regulates eventually force more centralization of power. That means that if you stay in the EU, if you keep open borders, if you keep one currency, if you keep all these European institutions, like the European Court of Justice and so on, you will lose a little more power to the European Union. That's what you can be for. D66 is in favour of this and I believe that GroenLinks is in favour of it. These are federalists: they want to regulate everything centrally from within the European Union, or at least the most important state choices, such as border control, the army, taxes, finances and so on. But if you are against it, the strange thing is that CDA and VVD are against it in public; the SP is against it too, then you have to add the consequence that you should not stay in the EU. That is for some strange reason a conclusion that as but not descends among the people here in the House of Representatives. If you do not want the European Union to draw more and more power, then you have to get out, because it is an inherent consequence of the things that the European Union has already dealt with. So we have another euro summit in a moment and there are proposals again on the table, a large part of which will be fired. That's all part of that two-step-a-step-a-step-a-step-a-step-a-step-a-step-a-step-a-step game. However, we will still agree to more central influence, more steps towards a European army, more steps towards European taxes and European asylum and immigration positions and so on. Gradually the frog is cooked, gradually we are put to sleep. We're about to wake up in a federal state of Europe. If we don't, we have to get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u122	Thank you. That brings us to the end of... No, I see that Mr Verhoeven is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u123	Mr Baudet made the right sketch in his analysis of how parties deal with the European Union in my view, but he opened his speech with the fact that, at least, he brought it as a fact that more and more Dutch people are for less EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u124	I think I said that a large majority of Dutch people are for no more EU or less EU, and that has been for decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u125	Yeah, and then I thought I'd check it out anyway. At that time, I saw that in 2013 62% of Dutch people were in favour of or in favour of the European Union. In 2017, this increased to 77%. How does Mr Baudet see this trend of increasing enthusiasm for the European Union among the Dutch in recent years in relation to what he said at the beginning of his speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u126	I can only respond to this opinion poll if I know the precise question that has been put. I myself know another opinion poll, which was conducted over a year ago, asking the Dutch people what they would like. In it, an overwhelming majority indicated wanting either from the EU or only a European community, i.e. with only economic agreements and not political ones. This is very easy to achieve by leaving the EU and simply making a number of trade agreements. I have therefore interpreted this as saying that those people want to leave the European Union. We have also published this extensively on our site. I'll send that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u127	That is very kind of you, and I will send you the six-monthly survey that has been done with the question: what do you think of Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u128	Then that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u129	So the answer to that is that in 2013 62% of people said that they are positive about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u130	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u131	... and in 2017 77%. So I want you next to your investigation...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u132	You can do that in suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u133	... nevertheless would like to offer the studies which show that an increasing proportion of Dutch people think positively about the European...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u134	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u135	Yeah, I suggest we suspend. Then I can respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u136	Exactly. I'm going to suspend until 6:10 p.m. and then you can exchange it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u137	Before we had completed the first deadline, there was discussion, a difference of opinion, about investigations. I'll give you a very brief... It can also be done there, Mr. Baudet, at the interrupting microphone, and then very briefly. Yes, I do. No, very briefly. No, no, no, Mr. Baudet. No, come on. You can make your point there. No, it's not a second term, it's a short correction. No, the first term... Well, you know, save it for the second term. Mr. Baudet, you need to stand over there, really. You either go behind the interrupting microphone or there, but not in front of me, because that really doesn't look good. No, no, no. You will not be given the floor behind the speaker's seat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u138	Mr President, may I say something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u139	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u140	I understand that Mr Baudet wants to say it. My proposal would be this. We have just spoken about this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u141	Oh, look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u142	That was a very good conversation. I would suggest that, in the second period, we clarify where the misunderstanding was. I think that's the best way to go now. I get your point, Mr. Baudet, but your microphone isn't on. Well, that makes it kind of hard to talk. So we don't hear what you're saying. Therefore, I would advise you to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u143	Good...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u144	...to clear it up in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u145	Mr. Baudet, may I have a moment? Yeah, hold on. You were ready. You were the last speaker in the first term. There will always be suspension after the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u146	Yeah, I know, but I was still working on my term when we were gonna suspend. When I come back to a point that has been made, it is perfectly logical that I should take the place here again to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u147	You know, that's a misunderstanding. You will have the floor very briefly to clarify your point. Then you'll sit down again. Then I'll continue with the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u148	Thank you. We are so lucky to have such a flexible chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u149	Well, sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u150	Thank you. In February 2017, Maurice de Hond made a large poll showing that 56% of the people in the Netherlands want to leave the EU de facto. One part really wants a nexit, one part only wants free trade. This can be achieved by leaving the EU and then moving back into the European Economic Area or into European free trade agreements. A second poll was conducted in March 2017 and it showed that at that time it was 52%. Those are the numbers we're talking about, and they're very serious numbers. The majority of Dutch people do not want to live in the current EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u151	Thank you. You made your point very clear. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked and I will try to do them justice as best I can. I'll start with the subject of migration. Last Sunday's summit was an informal work meeting. There were no conclusions or final statements adopted, but it was very useful. In the days before, irritations had arisen between various members of the European Council and others in Europe at a level where you prefer not to have these conflicts. That meeting helped to manage all this in some way. Furthermore, no conclusions were adopted. What we have to do is to answer the question of how we continue to deal with the whole issue of migration. In doing so, the Dutch Government, which we discussed last week in the Chamber, spoke along the lines of our so-called 'en-en-en' approach. That is getting the primary migratory flows under control and at the same time looking at how to deal with the secondary migratory pressure in Europe itself. I do not need to repeat all this, but of course a section which we discussed in detail last week was also discussed last Sunday. That is the whole question of what we could do to make agreements with countries in Africa. The idea is that you do this not only with the countries on the coast, but also deeper in Africa. If you manage to make more agreements with one of the countries on the coast of Africa, then you will also have to agree on how to bring people back deeper into Africa if they are economic migrants. Against this background, Belgian colleague Charles Michel and I have suggested that this process should be speeded up by allowing couples of countries, not on behalf of those two countries, but on behalf of the 28 countries. And that's what we're gonna talk about Thursday and Friday. Whether it's coastal countries or deeper in Africa, those couples are really going to develop relationships with those countries and see what such an arrangement might look like. Of course, I will tell everyone who attaches it to it that it takes place within all international conventions. How would you do that? We simply see that it is too slow. So the idea is not that these two countries together will do something for themselves. No, they do that on behalf of the 28. That's the idea of the couples. And that's just an idea to speed up the process. So we are always looking for an acceleration of the process. A few more detailed questions in the first term of the Chamber were about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u153	Mr. Van Ojik, I see you want to interrupt, but I'd like to see how...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u154	I also want to finish the migration point first, Mr. Chairman. Maybe that's an idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u155	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u156	Some questions have also been asked about the effectiveness of the Libyan Coast Guard. There is a report that confirms that it is important to continue to look critically at the effects of our commitment. It is good that the Commission does that; we expect it to do so. We are looking further, also in the talks with the Libyans, at how we can increase the effectiveness of our support. This should not affect the demands we make for cooperation with the Libyan Coast Guard: respect for human rights and the commitment within the existing framework of maritime law, human rights and refugee law. That will also be the subject of Coast Guard training. However, it is important to mention that they are the only ones authorised to operate in Libyan territorial waters. A few more questions have been asked, but I have already answered them in a general way. For example, Mr Verhoeven asked how we would ensure that it takes place within all frameworks. So that's what we're gonna do, because we're gonna have to. Mr Van Ojik asked a specific question about Algeria and Niger. I also take the messages from the IOM very seriously, because that is an important partner. I cannot judge whether this is a refoulement, but we do not know whether all these people had applied for asylum. But I think it is right that the Commission should look into this more closely, and that is what we will be promoting. What are all these migration discussions within Europe about the idea of a kind of enhanced cooperation? Are some countries going to be a leading group? The German chancellor said something about that in the media. I haven't heard that from her, but I did see it in the media. Mr Bishop and others asked: what does that mean for Schengen? Yes, that can, of course, have consequences for Schengen. I therefore also believe that we should try to reach agreements at 28 levels for as long as possible, because if you eventually go to mini-Schengen-like constructions, this will obviously have consequences, possibly also for free movement in Europe and for the functioning of Schengen as a whole. So don't think too lightly about that. But of course, you may have to step in at some point. As far as boats are concerned: Italy is not of course obliged to allow every boat. If the rescue operation takes place within the Italian search and rescue area, it is reasonable that Italy should initially seek a safe place. Even then it doesn't necessarily have to be Italy. International regulations require that a ship is deemed to drop drownings in a safe place, "a place of safety." By the way, that could be another ship in the neighborhood. The Italian Government has clearly communicated that it will be very reluctant. We have to face that fact when it comes to taking up ships. Mr Verhoeven had also stressed the importance of a humane asylum policy and a generous refugee policy. That is also the commitment of the cabinet. That is also clear from everything we do there. Mr Voordewind asked whether there should be a stronger link between EU funds and migration. Of course, this whole issue is also reflected in the Commission's proposals for the next Multiannual Financial Framework period. That's what the Cabinet supports. The Commission is also proposing a significant intensification in the area of migration, plus 50%, for both internal and external aspects. They also propose, and this welcomes the Netherlands, to make a much stronger link between, on the one hand, the inclusion and integration of asylum-seekers and, on the other hand, the granting of structural funds. This is, of course, an extremely sensitive issue with Eastern Europe. As far as I'm concerned, we're not at the stage of serious threats. We're trying to get out. I hope that if the overall migratory pressure on Europe decreases, the discussion on secondary migration will also become more relaxed. But we have the instrument in hand. We support the European Commission here with its potential proposals. Which countries will then be negotiating with? There's really no telling. Contacts are being made across a broad front. I mentioned a few countries as an example, but not that these talks are taking place. I wanted to point out that if you make agreements on the coast of Africa, you will also have to make agreements with countries deeper in Africa, on how people can eventually return to countries of origin, and improve the perspective there. By the way, and I thought Mr Voordewind said that, is always part of this kind of plan. That is also in the Turkey deal. The ideal endgame would be for no one to come to Europe themselves. The final picture of if this were to succeed is, of course, that people are being received in the region, that basically the reception is also taking place there, but that we are still bringing decent numbers to Europe through resolution, but structured, regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u157	No repetition of previous debates, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u158	Mr Voordewind asked that question with his familiar eye, so I wanted to reassure him immediately. But I'm coming with you. I'm gonna stick with that. That is the annoying thing about the President who is chairing all the debates himself. Then she also knows what the doubles are in!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u159	Yeah, I know all about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u160	Finally, perhaps, the question of what it means for the money. Well, it'll also mean that there's money to be paid. So there will also be extra money in such an EU-Africa Trust Fund. I think we're gonna make arrangements to put more money in there. Then the Netherlands will also participate, although we are already in the top 3 of the most contributing countries. Mr Van Dijk asked for another response to the letter of fire from NGOs. In any case, I share the principles they put forward: respect for European solidarity, a human and dignified asylum system, the international frameworks of the Refugee Convention and the ECHR. That is also what the government agreement is based on, the integrated migration agenda. We will also be and will remain in contact with the NGOs along those lines. Mr Verhoeven asked about the reform of the European asylum system, the GEAS. Indeed, last week there was a compromise on three proposals, including the Reception Directive. The idea is that all seven proposals should be approached as a single package, but you can see that a compromise has not yet been reached. A lot of questions have been asked about this. This is also the most extensive subject I have, Madam President, to reassure you. Less questions have been asked on the other subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u161	Good. Mr Van Ojik, brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u162	The thing with the couples sounds nice. But what exactly are these couples gonna do? Are they going to ask to take back refugees, take over, send them back...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u163	The Prime Minister is going to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u164	Exactly what Germany and the Netherlands have done with Turkey's agreements. That's when we were the couple. Talks were held with Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu at the time, but also with President Erdogan on how to reach agreements with Turkey on reception in the region, a one-on-one system and then a resettlement programme. When it comes to a country deeper in Africa, it will be much more about how we can help and what it takes to reintegrate economic migrants into their society. When it comes to countries where all the necessary things are happening, such as Niger and Nigeria, the question will be how we can help to accelerate it. My experience is that having such a couple makes things go faster. Because then it will no longer be the whole European Commission, the whole European Council, 28+28=56. No, then it is a few countries that make speed on behalf of the rest and report back to the collective within frameworks and see what is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u165	If you want to start that conversation, you'll... Let's be honest, and the Prime Minister just said it in a subtlety: there is no country yet. We've been talking about this for quite some time. That's what the Prime Minister said: well, come and talk about it. That might have just...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u166	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u167	You will need to know very specifically what you as a couple on behalf of those 27 or 28 countries ashore A or B are asking to have a chance of success at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u168	The most urgent thing would be for you to come to an agreement so that boats from Libya no longer come to Europe, but can land in a safe country in Africa for a few weeks. For that, you will probably have to agree with such a country to bring one-on-one people from that country to Europe in order to keep the migratory pressure overall in those weeks. In the longer term, you'll have to make agreements about resolution. Also, you're gonna have to make agreements about money. Look at the Turkey agreements: they cost two times 3 billion. And that's not even forever; that's just for a few years. So that's gonna cost money. You will also have to make agreements about continuing back into Africa. That's the kind of arrangement we're talking about. The most important goal for me, and you notice it to everyone, would be to destroy the business model of those boat smugglers with priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u169	I thank the Prime Minister for taking the concerns of the NGOs' letter seriously. They'll be happy about that. The letter also states that it is essential that asylum applications from asylum seekers, who come into the EU and ask for protection, are always examined in substance. Is that the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u170	This is all of course part of the discussion, which we have had before in the formation with GroenLinks. You can't say that like that. That depends entirely on the kind of arrangements you make. If anyone who applies for asylum in Europe can also carry out his procedure here, then the chance is that you stop the sucking effect... What you want to achieve, I think, is the following: I have listened to Mr Van Dijk's contribution and the discussion that is taking place in the SP circle and which I understand. How can you ensure that on the one hand you meet all the humanitarian conditions and, on the other hand, meet the requirement of speed to stop that system with those boats? Sometimes that's gonna require some pretty complicated constructions. For example, a bilateral agreement was concluded between Greece and Turkey on the basis of which the whole of Turkey could be agreed. It will be different from country to country whether you can also make use of occasional bilateral agreements of that type. The essential condition must always be that this is done, otherwise I have lost Mr Van Dijk and others here who are within the limits of humanitarian law and the Refugee Convention and who remain on board the UNHCR.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u171	Clear. The government's letter also states that people who come to Europe can be dealt with by a short procedure. I had also asked for another letter, that of the Meijers Commission. I understand the Prime Minister may not have read all the letters, but he would be willing to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u172	What was it about again? Maybe I got him here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u173	It also asks questions about the plans around registration centres. What kind of procedures do you get outside the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u174	No, don't read the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u175	I'm not gonna do that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u176	I shall come back to that in the second term, Mr President, because I know that we...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u177	It may also be written.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u178	No, I'm gonna try to do it verbally. That saves the civil servants a letter. If it doesn't work, we'll do it in writing, but I think it can be done orally. We were just talking about it. I thought we had that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u179	You'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u180	The Prime Minister just said that we need to think of a system where when they come, we can reroute those boats and get them back to Africa. But I'm gonna have to deal with this short-term procedure. Are we gonna do that shortcut procedure on those boats? Are we going to ask the UNHCR to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u181	A brief response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u182	All that needs to be looked at. It's not exactly accurate, really. The moment you bring them to Europe and they call "asylum" and they go into the whole procedure here, the system never stops and those boats continue to sail. If you manage to do it in Africa in such a way that it can actually take place according to our European standards and so on, it has the great advantage that you are not doing the 80% and 90% that are economically migrant to go through that whole asylum procedure. In the end, you have to look for roads that do not require that boat to dock first in Malta or in Italy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u183	Then you'll have to do a shortened procedure, because when it comes to gays, for example, you want to send them back to Tunisia, you don't have a go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u184	No, of course. But that's all you have to foresee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u185	Well, you'd have to see that. But the question is, what about the urgency? That boat, the Lifeline, is now docked at Malta. That has promised to include a number of people, but of course we get this more often because Italy has now refused to take in the refugees and have that refugee boat docked. What's plan "A"? After all, the urgency is great. What are we going to do about the refugees who are no longer able to get to Italy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u186	There's no telling. With this ship, the question is: where does it go in, whether it stays in Malta or goes on; and should we, as Europe, have something to do with it? We have to look at that, of course. But what you don't want is that I'm so careful about answering that question. We're saying "we're gonna work it out" because then I know there's gonna be a huge stream of boats coming into Europe tomorrow with people thinking: ha, nice, we're not gonna end up in Italy; we're probably gonna end up in Germany or Sweden. One of the preconditions, in my opinion, should be that a ship such as this is clearly not safe to do so if you look at it like that, seems to be the Lifeline or whatever the ship's name is, at least not to meet the criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u187	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u188	... so that it doesn't return to the sea and can't get another group of refugees, because then we'll keep busy. If you can think of a system in which those ships are taken out of service, that could help.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u189	I suggest you move on and speed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u190	That brings me to the second major issue: the rest is all smaller, and that is the discussion about the currency, about EMU. In that respect, of course, as a cabinet, we have a clear line. We believe that countries must comply with the commitments made in the Stability and Growth Pact. We believe that there is a basic promise of the euro, namely convergence towards a higher level of competitiveness in Europe. That's a bitch. It's not going well. We have many instruments to help countries that face natural disasters up to and including major shocks. Natural disasters are in the MFK. In major macro-economic crises, we have the ESM. The precautionary credit lines are in there too, if necessary. Indeed, we have the ESM itself in case a country really threatens to be cut off from market access at some point. So we have all these instruments. What are you looking at? We believe that the banking union is a priority. Why is this banking union a priority? We have just talked about migration, and we have seen that this system is not yet finished. The banking union has not been completed throughout the construction of EMU. I am concerned about that, because if a crisis approaches and banks get into trouble, it could harm us. So I think that banking union is a priority. We have to deal with them. It is important, then, that Mr Omtzigt referred to this, but also Mr Van Rooijen and others, that you determine very precisely what is needed to decide, for example, that the ESM is the backstop for the Single Resolution Fund. Good decisions were taken by the eurogroup a month ago on the bail-inable buffers and leverage ratios. As a Chamber, you know that the government attaches importance to a sovereign debt restructuring mechanism before you can accept the ESM as a backstop of the Single Resolution Fund. So I also agree with the line of Omtzigt that risk reduction here should go hand in hand with a possible step of this kind. But this is something that I think you should be able to get out of. So you have a very important point in Europe. It's actually just as much a point as it is about migration. You really fix a weak point in the dike. We can still go all the way down, but I think we are broadly in agreement on the MREL and on the leverage ratios. You need a sovereign debt restructuring mechanism. EDIS, the deposit guarantee scheme, is on the longer track anyway. This will only come back this autumn and then much more in political terms than in substance. That's not a disaster either. It has never been a priority for the Netherlands either, but it has been the banking union where the Single Resolution Fund is concerned. In addition, of course, proposals have been made by all kinds of countries. The Netherlands has made a very different proposal than France. We have said: look at the potential 200 billion in the MFF, which is intended for structure, cohesion and agricultural money in the euro area. We also said: see if we can agree to put an extra prism on that money, which just goes to all those goals, to see if it contributes sufficiently to a higher level of competitiveness. You can do that with his 19s. It's about convergence. That's within the MFF. We object to a number of proposals currently coming from other countries. We say: ho, beware, those are new own resources. The Googletax is then referred to as a own resource. Apart from the pluses and minuses of the Googletax.. that's where I'm going to get to... at least we don't see it as a food of some kind of European pot. The financial transaction tax is called. In any case, the Netherlands has very large reserves. It is a fundamental point to use new own resources as a power supply. A second point of principle is to remove such a pot completely from the MFF. Under the MFF you already have a pot of 200 billion for the euro area, but outside it is really something else. Thirdly: is it meant for competitiveness or for shock absorption? That whole term fiscal capacity, of course, smells like shock absorption. Mr Meseberg (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. That's not wrong at all. They then made a sort of list of what you could do on what is then called "fiscal capacity," "shock absorption" up to and including "convergence." That's a whole list of possibilities. There are a lot of things here that we would have great reservations about if that were to happen. But you can't read Meseberg like that: Germany or France have now decided so. In addition, I believe that we should be cautious and always respond to proposals from others. I find it much more interesting what our proposals are. We have therefore made these proposals around the 200 billion. Mr. Chairman. Let me ask you a few questions against that background. There is, of course, Mr Asscher's question: how can you prevent that, if you object, from being in the leading group? I think this isn't so bad. For example, we are now working with the French on everything, such as the 55% target for CO reduction, the G5 Sahel, external border surveillance and migration. On all these points, we are fully in line with Macron. This also applies to many points around the euro. On the issue of fiscal capacity, we're having a discussion. Oh, yeah. We really haven't figured that out yet. But it is also not that this is seen as if the Netherlands does not want something and others do. No, there are many more conflicting proposals. With regard to the points that Asscher mentions, namely equal pay for equal work in the same situations, Brexit, all these things, it should never be the case that we should not do so in that discussion. In fact, I believe that we are always reasonably in a leading group. I take that warning to heart, but I think this is going well. Van Rooijen asked the question about country-specific recommendations. It was very specific about pensions, but it also, of course, affects this debate. It's the same as last year, and I thought the years before that. Of course, we recognize this challenge as a cabinet in itself. As you know, we are trying to reach agreements in the Netherlands on the future of our pension system. Mr. Chairman. To conclude on EMU. In addition, I look at the tax paid by internet companies for a moment. We have also had a lot of discussions about this. The Netherlands has not said never or not to want to, but has a lot of questions. What does 3% turnover tax mean for small internet companies in the Netherlands? How are you gonna shape that? What does it mean in relation to the OECD and OECD principles? Is that okay? We have a positive base to ensure that the Internet companies will pay serious taxes, but this proposal really has some shortcomings. The question of EMU. There was one more question from Mr Bishop about the threat of irreversible steps in EMU. Of course, we have a very intensive dialogue with the Chamber. For example, the ESM as a backstop on the SRF, under all the conditions attached to it, requires an amendment to the ESM Convention. At least that's what I thought, but I'm gonna take a look at the official support. Yes, there's a nod. In any case, that is something the Chamber must approve. But also less far-reaching matters, which are politically important, naturally come back very intensively here, through Parliamentary letters and annotated agendas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u191	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u192	I think Mr Asscher was first, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u193	Then I shall go to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u194	That's very gallant. The list of things we are now working on with France appealed to me. But one of the problems in Europe is that the tax on capital is increasingly being levied on countries which compete with each other, and therefore more and more taxes on labour. Then we say again: how expensive is labour. So it would be a good thing if something were to be said about this. The Dutch Government is also obliged to commit itself to this. Now we see that Merkel and Macron also have the beginning of an agreement on a common tax base.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u195	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u196	So the question is: can I also see a more constructive attitude from the Prime Minister on this point, so that we do not participate in this competition between countries, but in the interests of Europeans are going to ensure that companies pay a decent tax on their profits?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u197	The Prime Minister also has a brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u198	We've had that discussion here a lot. Of course, you have the discussion about whether we have a common system to determine the basis. In addition, you have a further proposal, the CCCTB. We also have to be careful with the CCCB, because as a smaller country you want tax competition to remain part of your package. I agree with Asscher that this should not lead to an erosion of profits from companies. That's why you keep looking. In the package that the new cabinet has laid down, too, you can see that the costs for companies are increased or reduced by 100 million on balance. But there's a very big shift in it. We manage to reduce the Vpb and, at the same time, take a lot of greening measures, leaving the tax burden on companies roughly the same overall. So I agree with him that you should be careful to shift the burden from business to private individuals. It has, of course, taken place in the past. And the payroll tax is a distorting tax; we also know that. I understand that principle, but I'd like to warn you. With that CCCB, it's a bit like those Googletaks: you have to think it through really well before you get excited about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u199	Agreed. Of course, you have to be careful and you have to find out very precisely. But so far the attitude has always been: we do not want that. This makes the Netherlands very vulnerable to the argument of companies "for you ten others". That puts pressure on our income tax. That puts pressure on the dividend tax. We know that discussion. In this context, there are opportunities in Europe to take advantage of, without prejudice to the Netherlands, to ensure that companies pay a decent tax, with which we maintain the social system. So at that point I really hope that the Prime Minister ignores the easy 'we don't want to; we don't want to'. Of course we have to be careful, but the erosion of tax revenues by companies is a huge problem, which indirectly leads to a great deal of discontent about Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u200	In the opinion that the new Dutch coalition agreement, in comparison with the cabinet we had before, succeeds in finding a good balance. Asscher's not talking about that either. He may be talking about the dividend tax, but that's what we're going to talk about tonight. But he is talking more about the European case here. I get his point. He zooms in on one instrument, which I really have some serious doubts about. But I agree with his principle. We really need to work together to ensure that the shift that has taken place over the past ten to twenty years knows its limits. You have to watch out for a hollowing out of that tax base.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u201	The annotated agenda also stated that consideration should be given to the risk weighting of government bonds. A motion of 50PLUS has recently been adopted by a large majority, almost the entire Chamber. Can the Prime Minister explain again how he and the Minister of Finance intend to work in Europe to get rid of the system that all government bonds are, by definition, valued at 100% because Southern Europe and Japan still want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u202	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u203	That means Italian banks are far less solvent than they seem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u204	I could, of course, give a detailed exposé here because of my far-reaching knowledge of this subject, but unfortunately there is no time for that. I therefore ask whether I can pass this question on to the Minister of Finance and announce to him that Mr Van Rooijen is going to ask this question in the next debate he has with Mr Hoekstra, so that he can be armed to the teeth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u205	Yeah, but my question wasn't so technical. The Minister of Finance and I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u206	Then I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u207	It is a question of whether the Prime Minister would like to make an effort at the forthcoming consultations on the weekend to get that item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u208	That's not on the agenda there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u209	It's in the annotated agenda, with one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u210	I fear that most of the European colleagues have already dropped out of MREL, leverage ratios and "what's it called? AQRs. So I don't know if we're going down that level. I think that's more for the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u211	But you understand the question I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u212	Yeah, I get the question, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u213	You said the Banking Union is not finished. This is a big chunk in the throat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u214	Yes, it is also related to EDIS and how you deal with it. The weighing of sovereign... State bonds and how you weigh them, of course, also have to do with NPLs and EDIS. Of course, this is not at all the beginning of a substantive step. It has now been said by the Eurogroup that, if conceivable, the political talks will start later this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u215	But I assume that the Cabinet and the Prime Minister will carry out the motion of 50PLUS with the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u216	If it's accepted, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u217	All motions should be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u218	All motions, especially if they are adopted; not if they are not adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u219	I have another question about pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u220	Well, the last question, because you're actually...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u221	I didn't want to start with the pensions, because then... Anyway, I do not understand why the Commission is interfering with a private pension system and says that everything needs to be changed and that it needs to be dealt with in a new system. We believe that Brussels is not about that at all. We would like the cabinet to share our position on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u222	I do not know if you can say that the second pillar is entirely private, because we, as the government, of course, are mainly responsible for the accompanying legislation and regulations. When I see how much time we spend with social partners to look at the modernisation of the pension system... I do not think we would do that if it were all the social partners alone. I understand Mr Van Rooijen's reservations here, but I would particularly like to refer to the ongoing discussions with the social partners on a new pension system. In that context, I think we should look for a way out of making the pension system robust.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u223	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u224	I now have an answer to the question about the Meijers Committee. The letter from the Meijers Commission lists all the different ideas. In itself, the reaction of the cabinet to this is well known, for example, to the question of who should carry out an asylum procedure in a third country and establish the status. That is, as I have just said, just a part that needs to be worked out. You know our preference, namely cooperation with UNHCR. If UNHCR finds that there is refugee status, a proposal for resettlement can almost automatically take place. That could be a method. Meijers also talks about regional disembarkation platforms; that is a bit of the new lingo coming from the European Council. Like the Meijers Commission, we believe that this must always be in accordance with international law. So, safe human conditions and also selecting those who are most vulnerable, so that they do not end up in an asylum procedure; I also have to look at Mr Voordewind. This is also reflected in the draft European Council conclusions: 'in full respect of international law'. In that sense, therefore, I believe that the Meijers Committee is well anchored in the current thinking within Europe. The role of UNHCR will therefore be important in this respect. The third issue is the Multiannual Financial Framework. I didn't say we're gonna pay more because we're so rich. What I have said is that the Netherlands is actually a heavy net contributor and that this is in itself explainable from our wealth. I didn't say that because we're so rich, I'm looking forward to paying more. That wasn't right. I'd like to make that right here. Thank you, because communicating remains difficult, then, for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u225	Is that the end of this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u226	There were more questions about the MFF.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u227	Then I would suggest that you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u228	Yes. As far as the timetable for the coming years is concerned, I think it will take some time. For us the result is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u229	Mr Omtzigt looks very surprised. Mr. Ommzigt, you have an interruption on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u230	Yes, thank you. France and Germany, I must say: France in particular, also in the publicity, remain committed to a euro area budget. The Dutch Government has been clear through both Minister Hoekstra and Prime Minister Rutte. Can I assume that there will be no text at the forthcoming European summit to the effect that we are committed to a euro area budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u231	No, that won't be the case. So you can assume that, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u232	Okay, short and powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u233	So yes and no. We're in agreement. There's no way to predict the MFF procedure. It's real here: quality above speed. Mr Voordewind had a question about the Defence Fund. The main objective is, of course, a safe Europe. This fund is particularly helpful in developing the necessary capacities. It is important for us that the Dutch defence industry should be able to participate in this fund. We have a number of large companies, but we also have many SMEs. In the discussions, we have constantly focused on access for small and medium-sized enterprises, including the European supply chains, because it often involves multi-business cooperation. That success is now there. For example, Consortia can earn funding bonuses for bringing more cross-border SMEs into supply chains. There will be a special programme for SMEs worth 50 million, or 10% of the budget. We will also use these priorities in the negotiations on the new proposal, also in the context of the next Multiannual Financial Framework, so that we can also put the Dutch defence industry in the shop window internationally. Mr Bishop and Mr Verhoeven asked about the statement that 70% of the money goes to yesterday's priorities. Mr Verhoeven also asked: what about, can you cut back on agricultural cohesion and then reprioritize to the top priorities for the Netherlands? We want a few things at once. We want to reach a net gross level so that we are not paying the bill with each other for the Brexit drama. At the same time, we want to modernise. Against the backdrop of a European Commission that has proposed to increase expenditure even further, regardless of the Brexit. So that is going to be a huge debate in the coming years, perhaps in the years to come. It may also take until after the European elections. Eventually, you want to reprioritize: within the budget, find the money for the things we have to do. It should therefore be noted that traditional policies still account for 70% of the MFF. At the same time, we must try to achieve this reform and, at the same time, free up money for future priorities. This is about the MFF. I'll get to the shortcuts. How many Member States are now aiming for a smaller budget? This question is actually still part of the MFF. I cannot, of course, give access to the positions of other countries, but we work in a group of like-minded countries. Unfortunately, with the departure of the United Kingdom, this group now consists of one country less, so I say to Mrs Maeijer. I'm here on security and defense. In recent months, I say to Mr Verhoeven, concrete steps have been taken to strengthen European security and defence, including in the field of PESCO. We have made an active contribution to this. For example, in the area of military mobility, which will also come back to the NATO summit in a few weeks' time, we are playing a leading role. It concerns the military mobility package and the military mobility pledge. Yesterday in Luxembourg, at the meeting of the European Foreign and Defence Ministers, there was a great deal of appreciation for this issue. This is concrete. That's typical Dutch too. In all these complex high vision debates we come up with practical proposals. There is also vision, but certainly practical proposals. We welcome the agreement between France and Germany on President Macron's European Intervention Initiative. That was quite an egg that had to be laid. Mr Mulder referred to this as well. What I like about the Meseberg Declaration by the French and the Germans is that they say that the European Intervention Initiative should be linked as tightly as possible to PESCO. We support that. We have always argued in favour of this. The advantage is that a number of other countries, such as Denmark, are also participating in that Macron initiative. Yesterday we signed the declaration of intent on this subject. I come to the adjustment of the decision-making procedures. We said something about that in the letter. I don't have much to add to that. We are prepared to hold the debate seriously on how to ensure that you achieve speed in Europe. But I also understand all the sensitivities about giving up vetos. So we really need to have a good time with each other. At the moment, however, it is also important to note that Europe does not make a dent once there are really major international crises. Look at Israel and other places in the world. For the world's largest, most powerful trading bloc, that's a bit of a mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u234	A brief question, Mr. Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u235	The Prime Minister is right to point it out. It should not be the case that we give away our voice on foreign policy at an afternoon's notice. As a disclaimer, however, it says: "The Netherlands insists on the principle that the decision on military deployment must be taken by consensus," but at the same time you want more majority decision-making in the field of foreign policy. What's that about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u236	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u237	That's a discussion we need to have. The Foreign Minister sent a letter on this matter. I think that debate should simply be conducted. That's a sensitivity; I can see that. But I also note, once again, that Europe is really not effective in the foreign policy field. It is simply not effective; we must be realistic in this. So we can keep it all the way it is, maybe that's the outcome of the discussion, but then we shouldn't talk about a High Representative, a European foreign policy and an EEAS deployed for billions worldwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u238	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u239	I think it's a little vague. Missions are not allowed by majority decision-making, but when I ask what, I hear: that is what we need to talk about. I don't want a rabbit coming out of the top hat here all of a sudden, I'm just saying as a warning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u240	All this is covered by the Bishop's doctrine: changes only after intensive consultation with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u241	Now the rest of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u242	Then there is Mr Mulder's question. How does the European Intervention Initiative relate to NATO? Is there a threat of duplication? No. It is a consultation platform for a small group of willing and able countries. They will regularly discuss the safety environment and possible deployment scenarios and planning, and they will share information. They will also make agreements on the support of deployed military forces. So they are doing their homework for future commitment, so that this group of countries is able to make a much faster commitment if agreements are subsequently made in NATO, EU or UN contexts. NATO, the transatlantic relationship, remains, for the cabinet, the cornerstone of our entire security policy, as it has always been. Then there is Article 7 and the situation in Hungary. Mrs Maeijer, Mr Bishop and others referred to this. Things aren't going well in Hungary. I like what Mrs Maeijer says, but if this is the way she sees the Netherlands in a number of years' time, it is a good thing that we know that. On 20 June, the Hungarian Parliament adopted the "Stop Soros" legislative package. This is highly criticised locally and internationally, including by the responsible committee in the European Parliament. The Venice Commission expressed its opinion on 25 June that the legislation was disproportionate by criminalising aid to asylum seekers. We are looking at this with great concern, including as the Netherlands. What is happening here is simply criminalising aid to asylum seekers. The effect is also that the firm application of the concept of safe third country is a de facto rejection of all asylum applications in Hungary. That's not possible. That is really contrary to all our views on rule of law, on human rights and on a community of values. So I'm sorry, but we're really gonna argue with that. So we have made our concerns known to the Hungarian authority with ten like-minded countries. We'll keep doing that. We are continuing with an infringement procedure relating to the NGO laws. The European Parliament will vote in plenary in September on a proposal from the relevant committee, the LIBE Committee, on developments in Hungary. Why the Article 7 status? Because we in Europe need to be able to rely on each other's legal system. You cannot say that Europe is just a market. Even the most extremely free market-driven liberal also needs a market master, a number of common values and predictability. So even if you approach it from the purest extreme liberal point of view, you still need free press, independent justice, legal certainty and trust in each other's legal system. Article 7 is a difficult procedure, which is only dealt with in exceptional cases. As far as Poland is concerned, the Netherlands still hopes that the dialogue between the Commission and Poland will lead to a solution. Of course, there are also lighter instruments that can be used if possible, but Article 7 must be included in the package, I think. Is there support for Merkel and Macron and a climate-neutral Europe? That was a question from Mr Verhoeven. Yeah, great, all for it, but what's really important right now isn't 2050. What we need to achieve is to increase the CO reduction target to 55% by 2030. We are good with the French, but I haven't heard enough about it from the Germans. Because 2050, yes, ammehula, that's so far away, we always agree on that. By 2030, we will have to reach 55% in Europe. That is not on the agenda of this European Council. I am therefore very pleased with the target of 2050, but we will continue to press the Germans for the 2030 target. The debate on Albania and Macedonia took place last week. The cabinet operates within that guidance. Then Brexit. I agree with Mr Mulder that there has been little progress since March. There is therefore also an unabated risk of a no-dealing scenario. We are preparing for this in different ways: the capacity increase of the implementation organisations. Two times, Jeremy Corbyn has already pointed out there that he is the leader of the Labour Party in Question Time that we are expanding customs and the British are not. Two. Information to businesses and other target groups. Three. Preparing the necessary legal changes. Businesses have a great responsibility, but they are not alone. We work intensively with the business community, support and inform it actively. There have also been several consultations. I also mention the Brexit counter, www.brexitstoop.nl, where entrepreneurs can contact you with questions, online and by telephone. There is a Brexit Impact Scan that helps entrepreneurs to map all the consequences. And as I said, there are a lot of stakeholder meetings for and with business, the so-called Brexit on tour. And then there's the Brexit vouchers. So we're really trying to prepare this on all sides, even if it's not a "over the cliff" scenario. Eventually we have to prepare ourselves anyway, because the relationship is going to change, both with a hard Brexit and with a hopefully gifted outcome. Mr Omtzigt also asked for this. Maybe I should refer in particular to the answer I just gave. Maybe I'll give you a few more examples. The customs and agricultural inspection and verification organisations now have a lot of work to do. Preparations are also taking place in the seaports. New employees are being recruited. Procurement pathways have been launched. The logistical bottlenecks in mainports, in particular as regards ferry traffic, are identified by the implementing authorities. The relevant ministries and implementing organisations take the necessary measures themselves. This spring, the Court was reported in detail in writing on progress in areas such as agriculture and fisheries, social affairs, defence and infrastructure and the water state. We will continue to do so. I am now through all my dust over the Brexit, as Mr Omtzigt knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u243	It's a good thing there's that preparation. I'd like to have an appreciation at the end of the summer recess from where we're close. If we're close to a cliff edge, how are we prepared? I hear in the answer that the mainports are preparing. So far we have mainly seen a preparation of mainport Rotterdam. Does this also mean that the mainport Schiphol is preparing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u244	Yes. There's heavy jabbering in the civil service, so that's true. With regard to the first question: let's agree that I will take a look at this with Stef Blok. Your question we're going to ask, but can we process it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u245	Stef Blok is the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u246	Yes, the Secretary of State, I'm sorry. Whether we can stop that with the Foreign Minister was your question. The answer to this is in an annotated agenda which appears immediately after the summer. Then this doesn't have to be a separate letter. I'm gonna take that off the record, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u247	Are you going to a roundup?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u248	Then a few final points. They asked about Trump. How do we ensure that Trump does not break up the European Union? I think we should rely a little on ourselves here, too. We've been doing this for a while here in Europe. I believe that unity in Europe is crucial to move the United States to do more, including on the multilateral path. It is therefore a good thing that we are discussing trade policy at this European Council. At the European Council in March and at the informal summit in Sofia, we came to united positions. Trade ministers are in close contact. I note with all my colleagues that this is considered crucial and that the importance of unity within Europe is acknowledged. Then MH17. I am indeed very pleased with what seems to be happening on Thursday and Friday at this point. Support for UN Security Council Resolution 2166, of course, and also for calling on Russia to take responsibility and fully cooperate with all efforts to find out the truth and ensure justice and accountability. That is the COSAC report to which Mr Omtzigt referred. The moment of the meeting has yet to be determined, yes, it's all going step by step, but we're trying to push the process. The Minister will inform about the outcome immediately after that meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u249	Thank you. You also have a second term, but one final question, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u250	Thank you for that commitment. I like to see what comes out of the RAZ. I hope that the Minister will also discuss this in the Cabinet, either at the euro summit, where he himself is, or in the euro group, where the Minister for Finance is. They too have had a letter, Centeno even personally, but after four months there has been no response. I understand if it doesn't happen tomorrow but a few weeks later, but I'd like the commitment to bring it up there as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u251	Let me do it like this before I say yes. Block is going to raise it in the RAZ, to set it up as soon as possible. I am now going to ask the official to discuss Mr Omtzigt's request with Stef Blok, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I understand Mr Omtzig in such a way that he actually says that this also affects the Eurogroup and the European Council. I want Minister Blok to be in charge. Otherwise, I'm gonna run it now, and I can't totally oversee it. I understand Mr Omtzigt's questions. The answer to the first question is: yes, that is what is happening; it is being picked up there. But moving on to Eurogroup and European Council...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u252	You said that, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u253	....................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u254	Thank you. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That is not the case with everyone. I am going to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u255	Thank you, Mr President. I can be very short. I thank the Prime Minister. I particularly welcome his commitment to encourage the European Commission to ask questions in the case of Algeria, about which we have all heard terrible stories. I hope that he will not only ask questions, but will also take action at the time when it appears, and that is where it really seems that the rules of international law and human rights are being violated. He has gone into it, but, in my opinion, it is a little too easy: I ask him to do the same when it comes to the reports and investigations that indicate that the Libyan Coast Guard is malfunctioning. We support the Libyan Coast Guard. A proposal is before the European Council to increase support for the Libyan Coast Guard. I would very much like the Prime Minister to promise that this enlargement can only take place if we are sure that European money is not misused to the Libyan Coast Guard for human rights violations. I do not have a motion for it now, but I hope he will argue it. Madam President. The migration deals will undoubtedly be discussed very often, perhaps at the moment when there is a concrete migration deal ahead; you never know. I shall then be happy to give my opinion on this again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u256	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u257	Mr. Chairman. I understand that last Thursday the debate on the euro area budget was rather harsh. The team of Hoekstra all the rating was against another team, to stay in sports terms, led by France and Germany, by Merkel and Macron. It was hard. We had expressly asked for a commitment from the Prime Minister on his position. He has just responded to that in an interruption by Mr Omtzigt, but I had already asked that question. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that some EU Member States are considering introducing a separate second budget at European level;]] [[Whereas the establishment of a separate budget for the euro area implies that the current budget of the European Union and the regular process on the Multiannual Financial Framework do not comply;]] [[calls on the Government to express the view that a separate second budget should not be implemented;]] [[calls on the government to refer Member States with financial wishes to the regular fiscal system within the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1344]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u258	Mr President, I would like to make a short motion on Macedonia. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a reform-oriented government took office in Macedonia in June 2017;]] [[Whereas, therefore, a sustainable stable political environment cannot yet be considered;]] [[Whereas the government still needs to take a number of important steps to implement further reforms, partly dependent on the opposition, as in the case of important legislation in the area of judiciary;]] [[Notes that, on the basis of this state of affairs, negotiations on accession to the EU cannot be opened;]] [[calls on the Government not to accept the Commission's proposal to start negotiations on Macedonia's accession to the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1345]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u259	I have a short question, because I tabled the same motion last week and then 50PLUS voted against, so I think this is a very dubious story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u260	Mr. Van Rooijen, what about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u261	Mr President, that was a motion which stated that under no circumstances could it be done, in fact without a time limit, and we are restricting it to the discussion at the moment. That was the reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u262	Mrs Maeijer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u263	I'd like to correct that, because it didn't say so. The motion was very staccato: asks the cabinet not to agree to the opening of negotiations. There wasn't any staining. The only staining that exists now gives Mr Van Rooijen himself. I therefore maintain that I find it very dubious that he is now actually literally tabling the same motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u264	Thank you. Then I shall go to Mr Asscher. No? Then I'll go to Mr Voordewind. No, I didn't. Then I'm going to see Mr Bishop. No, I didn't. Then I'll go to Mrs. Maeijer on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u265	Mr President, thank you. I must say that I find it rather difficult to debate the European summit if it remains unclear what exactly is on the table with regard to the migration proposals. Are those the conclusions that were made last week? Is it yesterday's? Or is there another document that is going to be discussed later? In any case, the message about the PVV should be: do not make the Netherlands dependent on the European Union and make us boss over our own borders again. The second point I would like to make is the possible shift from consensus to majority decisions of the European Union in the field of foreign and security policy. Like the SP, I can say that I did not find the Prime Minister's answers very reassuring. Enough control has already been handed over in the decision-making process. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas France and Germany want more majority voting in the field of EU foreign and security policy rather than consensus;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable to give further Dutch control;]] [[calls on the Government to oppose majority decision-making rather than consensus decision-making in the field of EU foreign and security policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Maeijer, Mr Emiel van Dijk and Mr De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1346]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u266	Yes, Mr. Van Ojik was sitting next to me in the field of D66 and he said a number of things. I would like to briefly thank the Prime Minister: thank you for the answers in the areas of climate, asylum and PESCO, defence cooperation. I got a runaway feeling out of that, didn't I? I would like to thank the Prime Minister for that. In the area of the Multiannual Financial Framework and the Digitals, I would like to wish him a little more enthusiasm. I am mainly here to conclude the small debate I had with Mr Baudet. I will do so very briefly and clearly. He came up with an investigation, and I took a couple of other tests. I'll give it to him myself later. I'm not going to read it all up, because the president doesn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u267	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u268	But four other studies show that in the years 2014 to 2018, there are all kinds of increases that could be summarized as a general feeling of more positivity and more pro-European feelings among the Dutch population over the past three to four years. I will give Mr Baudet the links, the summary or the paper where I wrote it. Then he knows that I have also consulted a number of investigations. He just mentioned his research, and now I'm calling mine. In this way, we continue to fight each other with facts, investigations and other publications, as it should be in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u269	Wouldn't it be nice if we were ultimately dependent not on opinion polls, but on referenda to measure the mood among the population?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u270	Absolutely. That is why binding referendums are needed, but never on membership of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u271	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u272	My party has always said that clearly and clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u273	We can't have a referendum on that? Do I hear you say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u274	D66 is not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u275	Okay, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u276	So no referendum on EU membership. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u277	Thank you. Thank you. No, Mr. Baudet. Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I'll turn off both microphones, if you don't mind. Mr Omtzigt has the floor. We have had the debate on referenda. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u278	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the Prime Minister for a clear commitment: there will be no euro area budget. I got that right. Two: I would like to have a further explanation of the framework within which Albania is not allowed; the Van Helvert motion. The motion is clear: Albania will not be admitted on the basis of this report and no promises will be made. Does the Minister share that interpretation, as it was given in the debate? We have to be careful. Thirdly, I would like to thank the government for putting the transparency initiative on the agenda, finally. I share Mrs Maeijer's remark that sometimes we simply do not have the draft conclusions. Then it's gonna be really hard to shoot a moving thing. Mr President, I shall make one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to plan a moment for the assessment of the risk reduction before any decision on the early introduction of the backstop/back-up of the SRF is submitted to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1347]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u279	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the response to the letters from the Meijers Committee and from Refugee Work and others. That the Prime Minister shares their concerns is noted. Then it's about resettlement. Do I understand that the Prime Minister said "Europe can resettle more refugees as illegal migration decreases"? How much, then, is my question. Did I hear the Prime Minister say it could be 50% more? 50% compared to what is that? I'd like an explanation. The SP will certainly support Mrs Maeijer's motion to hold a vote on foreign policy. We should not give that away. Finally, it is good that next week we are going to have a new debate on the Council's conclusions that are coming, so that we do not have to face up to the facts, let alone a rabbit from a high hat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u280	Thank you. The Prime Minister says "two minutes," so I'm suspending the meeting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u281	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u282	Mr. Chairman. The answer to Mr Van Ojik's question... That's such a nice answer, but now he's not here. Mr. Van Ojik, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u283	There's Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u284	Mr. Van Ojik, the answer to your question about the Libyan Coast Guard is: yes, I can confirm that. The Van Rooijen motion in part No. 1344 I'd like to dissuade. The reason is that in this motion are all "as-dance." There is talk of a separate second budget and all kinds of other things. We still have the whole discussion to discuss about the MFF. I have just said to Mr Omtzigt that we do not want a separate euro area budget outside the MFF. I think that's enough. Otherwise we will be making motions in which we respond to proposals from other countries. So I'd really like to discourage the motion. The frameworks within which we operate and the guidance we feel from the Chamber are clear. The Van Rooijen motion in part No. 1345 is superfluous, because the General Affairs Council today decided, partly at the request of France and the Netherlands, not to open negotiations with Macedonia and Albania. A progress report from the Commission will first be presented in 2019. And it is only after that that this issue will be discussed again. That is also what I am saying in reply to Mr Omtzigt's question. The Maeijer c.s. motion in piece No. 1346 I advise. We do not want to close the door completely at this point. We're gonna take a good look at the hows and whats first. There is also further discussion between the Foreign Minister and your Chamber. The motion for a resolution refers to part No. 1347 I really think it is policy support. So I can live with that very well. Then there was a question from Mr Jasper van Dijk about more resettlement as the influx drops. As Mr Jasper van Dijk puts it, I think it also fits into the framework of the coalition agreement. But it has to go down first. We just don't have percentages. That's really too complicated. You can't send it that detailed. But there is the principle that there will be more room for resettlement if there is a falling inflow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u285	I have a question about what the Prime Minister said about Albania. Does that mean that the Chamber and the government will be able to say yes or no again next year and that there will be no conditional commitment, in the sense of 'if you meet this, you will be admitted', so that we are not put on the spot?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u286	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u287	So we can just come back here next year and make another assessment of both countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u288	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u289	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u290	What was the reaction to Mr Omtzigt's motion to part No. 1347?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u291	Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u292	I agreed to that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u293	Agreed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u294	I just don't have the form that says what to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u295	Has the motion been taken over or are you going to leave it to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u296	The Prime Minister will pass judgment on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u297	Yeah, that's actually what I said. I lost the term for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u298	Yes, pay attention, Mr Verhoeven. Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-30.u299	Tomorrow we will vote on the motions tabled.
