ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u1	I welcome the Minister of Medical Care in our midst. Three speakers have signed up for this debate and as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber I would like to give the floor to Mrs Dijksma of the Labour Party. You have two minutes' speaking time, including the possibility of tabling one or more motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr President, thank you very much. We have generally discussed emergency care and the fact that there is a lot of pressure on emergency care in the Netherlands. We see that the driving times of ambulances are not always reached everywhere and that there are a lot of problems in certain regions. The Labour Party is, of course, a constructive party, so we always think about solutions. I'd like to present it in a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the context of emergency care, it is of the utmost importance that aid be provided in a timely manner;]] [[Whereas enhanced cooperation between ambulance and hospital care can be improved through regional plans;]] [[Whereas the organisation of emergency care on the basis of the Special Operations Act will speed up cooperation, reduce the need for declaration systems and check-in lists and eliminate the risk of emergency care;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an investigation into the possibilities of organising emergency care on the basis of the Special Operations Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijksma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-256]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u3	That was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mrs Dijksma. Then I will go to the next speaker on the side of the Chamber, and that is Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA. You also have two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. We spoke a few weeks ago about emergency care, where there is a lot going on at the moment. The CDA is therefore pleased that the Minister has indicated an action plan, together with Ambulance Care Netherlands, the health insurance companies and possibly some other parties. An important point of the Action Plan is to bring response times back within the norm. I myself mentioned in the debate the example of Voorne-Putten, where ambulances have been arriving too late for years. It is good to hear that the Minister wishes to include this case separately in the action plan. Mr. Chairman. We would like to ask how these regions, in which many citizens and drivers have for many years been concerned about driving times and have also studied them, can provide their input to the Minister's action plan. I understand very well that the whole world cannot be invited to talk about everything, but it can be useful for the support if there is at least the possibility of bringing good ideas from the region into it. A short question about the emergency post at Gemini Hospital in Den Helder. The Minister replied to my question on this during the general consultation that he would remain open. But we already knew that, and that wasn't exactly my question either. I meant to ask whether my picture is correct that the requirements of the emergency shelters are increasing every year, making it increasingly difficult for relatively small hospitals to meet all these requirements. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. Then I will go to the next speaker on the side of the Chamber, and that is Mr Hijink of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the debate we discussed the closure of emergency posts, in particular the post in Hengelo, which has now been closed. The SP is not happy about this, because it is important for the region and the city to remain open, and that is why I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the emergency department of Hospital Group Twente, location Hengelo, was closed on 1 April;]] [[noting that closing an emergency service would lead to longer travel times and thus greater risks for people in need of acute care;]] [[noting that the Hengelo City Council and the local population were opposed to the closure of the emergency service, but had no involvement whatsoever in the decision-making process;]] [[Notes that an emergency hospital is a necessary local facility;]] [[calls on the Government to intervene and to reverse the closure of the emergency service station in Hengelo,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-257]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u8	I give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care to answer and appreciate the motions tabled during the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, I'm just looking for the motion in part No. 256, tabled by Mrs Dijksma. That's this motion. It states: "calls on the Government to carry out an investigation into the possibilities of organising emergency care on the basis of the Special Operations Act." I would like to discourage that motion, because the Law on Special Medical Operations focuses on organising care in certain institutions. So it is about concentrating on certain healthcare institutions in the country. That is not the intention, because ambulance services are needed widely throughout the country. This therefore does not fit in the nature of the case with the Law on Special Medical Operations. Moreover, if we take care out of the Health Insurance Act, it's about ambulance care, the emergency care, that's not insured care anymore. I do not think that is the intention of Mrs Dijksma either. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you for your appreciation, but that does lead to an interruption by Mrs Dijksma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u11	The advantage of this construction is that its own risk does not apply either. It is not for nothing that I ask for an exploration because I want to see possible bears on the road, but at the same time the solution to stop the market forces that now also have control over this form of care. The question is whether this law or perhaps another law can do so, but how can this cooperation be promoted rather than competition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u12	We have already exchanged this discussion in the AA. At that time I replied that, even on the basis of the current arrangements for cooperation at regional level within the so-called ROAZs, the regional consultation should be agreed on acute care, for 24 hours a day, seven days a week. That's already been practiced. A change of law isn't gonna help.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mrs. Dijksma finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u14	If it was all spic and span with emergency care, then of course we were not here. Then the Minister did not need an entire action plan to actually enforce everything that is apparently already well regulated. That is why I ask the Minister: is it true that he is not prepared to look at the system because in any case he does not want a system change, and that he declares that taboo, or is he saying that the system is really good, that it is all marching, that we may have to put some pressure on him here and there, that he is doing that and that the stocking is done with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u15	No, Mrs Dijksma and I have already exchanged the role of the regional consultations a few times over the past six months, which is becoming increasingly important. It's not like it's all been dealt with tip-top and spic and span. That can always be better. But I see that the regional consultations are committed to this. I was asked to judge a motion, to carry out a reconnaissance and to organise emergency care in that exploration on the basis of the Law on Special Medical Operations, but I see no salvation in that. That's why I didn't recommend that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u16	Clear. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mrs Van den Berg drew attention to the situation at Voorne-Putten. Others have also done so in the AO. Mrs van den Berg asks whether these signals are already known to the Ministry, or whether it should be brought to our attention again. Of course you can. If Voorne-Putten wants to bring that concern to the attention of the Minister again, so that he can take it into the action plan, then I would say: the mailbox and my ears are open.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u18	I am particularly concerned that the ideas of the region itself should be included in the action plan. Do I understand that the Minister is open to a delegation to explain the proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u19	I actually said it should be a written contribution, but the coffee's ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u21	I have another question from Mrs van den Berg, namely whether the requirements for emergency aid are being raised annually in Den Helder, as a result of the emergency aid. No, the answer to that question is negative. There have been no additional demands in recent years. For the record, these demands are not so easily made by the government either. It is mainly the professionals who make quality guidelines, quality frameworks. It is true that the Quality Framework for Emergency Care Chain has recently been offered in concept. There will therefore be additional requirements, but on the basis of the previous period, I did not think that is the issue. Then what is in such a concept quality framework? For example, an emergency doctor should have two years of experience. That's the kind of deal we have to think about. I hope I have answered Mrs van den Berg's questions adequately. Finally, a motion by Mr Hijink of the SP. The motion calls on the government to intervene and to reverse the closure of the emergency service station in Hengelo. I'm deceiving that motion. As I indicated at the AO, I understand, of course, that people find it annoying when the emergency services close in the neighborhood. If you need care, you'd prefer to have it at your disposal as soon as possible, especially when you need urgent care. However, the healthcare system contains important conditions to ensure that acute care remains sufficiently accessible, such as the duty of care providers and the 45-minute standard for the distribution of emergency care and the acute obstetrics departments. We've already exchanged this. As long as the 45 minute standard is met, the organisation of care in the region is the responsibility of the healthcare providers and the health insurers. This is also the case in this case. The emergency room in Hengelo is not sensitive to that 45 minute standard. This means that the closure of this emergency aid will not jeopardise the accessibility of this care for the inhabitants of the region. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Minister. Then we have come to the end of the VAO on emergency care. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-3.u23	The vote on the motions tabled in this VAO is on Tuesday after the recess. I shall suspend the sitting until 11.10 a.m. or at least until all the speakers and the VWS Minister are in our midst for the 30-member debate on the growing healthcare gap in the Netherlands.
