ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the supplementary supplementary budget for the climate change agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u2	I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, as well as the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. Eight speakers have signed up. They have also given up some speaking time. It's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... I suggest two interruptions in two. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you, Mr President. 90 million euros would like to give away this minister. EUR 90 million for so-called pilot areas to be made natural gas-free with this money. EUR 90 million for so-called "knowledge and experience, so that more municipalities can start working on the release of natural gas from neighbourhoods." That is what the Minister writes in her explanatory statement. But why is that? Why do we need more knowledge and experience? Is this government missing from this at the moment? Apparently so. We already know that, because otherwise this cabinet would not have come to the absurd conclusion at all that the whole country should become natural gas-free, but that aside. Mr. Chairman. EUR 90 million will be transferred directly to the municipalities for the purpose of natural gas-free housing. The question then is: to which municipalities? The Minister doesn't know that. She writes that the selection of neighborhoods and municipalities participating in the project has yet to be made. That's weird, isn't it? That's weird, isn't it? Because we in the Chamber must now decide on a very large bag of money, EUR 90 million, without knowing where this money will end up. Can the Minister at least indicate which municipalities have signed up for this project for this free money? Because that's what it is of course: free money! And let's face it, it's supposed to be a storm, right? I ask, Mr President, why these millions are actually needed. That is because the removal of natural gas from homes is not profitable. It's as simple as that. Even the Minister just admits that. She writes: "The money is meant for the uneconomic part of the investment." And if there's anything uneconomic, then taxpayers' money get thrown at it. Mr. Chairman. And then what? So what exactly is going to happen? That too remains vague. The Empire and the municipalities have yet to agree on what the results should be. It's not getting any more concrete. But then I ask the Minister what sense do agreements have at all if municipalities do not have to answer financially. Because that is the case! "Municipalities have their own responsibility," writes the Minister. And also: "There is no supervision by the Empire." How bizarre is that? In other words, a big bag of money is given away to the municipalities and the minister says: please, have fun with it, do whatever you want with it, because you don't have to answer for it. Has the Minister deliberately chosen this, knowing that it is not profitable? Mr. Chairman. Do not answer for spending money on something that is not profitable: it simply cannot be explained. This means that this whole project is in fact nothing but a very bad but very expensive advertising stunt, with tax money well understood. With that, people have to start believing how great and especially easy it is to make your home climate neutral. Everyone join in, that's the creed. Let us be clear, with taxpayers' money and with subsidies, that is indeed not so difficult. But if households have to take the lead in the end, it will of course be a completely different story. And the households will take the fall for it. It has recently been announced that making the entire corporate sector climate neutral will cost more than 100 billion. 100 billion! That's at least €50,000 per house. Of course, corporations will simply pass on these costs to the tenants. And that while tenants are already struggling with the monthly charges! And that while tenants are already struggling with the energy bill and living in energy poverty! And that will only get worse if it is up to this cabinet in the years to come. The homeowners will also have to believe it, whether they like it or not. Don't they just happen to have an old sock somewhere with $50,000? Who's got that? In the future, they can even take out green loans to make their homes climate neutral. So pay attention: it is becoming increasingly difficult to buy a property at all, it is becoming increasingly difficult to get a mortgage, but taking an extra loan for climate madness is apparently not a problem. It's too bizarre for words. The banks are standing in line to grant those loans. That means two things. Firstly, climate change is priceless, as the PVV has always said. Secondly, even though it is priceless, it must be pushed down the throats of the citizens, even if it puts them in debt and puts them in financial misery. Such a green loan is building-bound. Then the loan rests on the house and in case of relocation the loan is automatically for the next house owner. In addition to his mortgage, the house buyer gets a loan of just €50,000, whether he likes it or not. Can the Minister explain what impact this has on the price development of houses? Because the prices are already rising. Moreover, the equipment in the house, such as heat pumps and solar panels, may be worn out rather than the loan has been fully repaid. Does that mean, I would ask the Minister, that an additional loan should be made for the replacement of equipment, which would result in a build-up of loans and debts, and that, in practice, there should never be a full repayment? Can the Minister explain this? The PVV has already asked written questions about this, but unfortunately the answers were just as weird as the whole project of natural gas-free test areas. The PVV asked twelve specific questions, but there was no concrete answer. However, the answer to question one was concrete. "Are you familiar with this message?" "Yes." But for the rest, hopeless. What kind of loans are we talking about here? That remains to be worked out. How much will people have to pay in practice? That, too, needs to be further worked out. And what if people can't afford it anymore? Are they literally in the dark? That, too, needs to be further worked out. That's impossible, isn't it? In the meantime, a large bag of money is being given away: EUR 90 million, without knowing exactly what is going to be done with it. That's just not explainable. It's like going to the supermarket, paying off a certain amount of money and only then finding out what you actually bought, or not. This is now typical of the whole climate policy. Don't ask questions. Results don't count. The cost doesn't matter. Just do it and the bill is ultimately for the citizens, as always. See the rising rents, see the rising energy bill. Everything becomes more expensive and more expensive because the climate problem has to be maintained at all costs. The natural gas-free test areas are an example of this. That this project of vagueness and mystery is connected, hopefully, but one thing: that it is doomed to fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u4	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Koerhuis of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u5	Mr. Chairman. The climate is important. That's why we need and want to get rid of the Groningen gas. That is why, as a coalition in the coalition agreement, we agreed to provide EUR 300 million annually for measures to reduce CO emissions in the Netherlands until 2030. When we think of this sustainability, we quickly think of wind and solar parks. But the housing market is responsible for 22% of our energy consumption. That is why we want to make EUR 95 million available for the housing market this year. We're going to use that almost entirely to see how we can best make neighborhoods natural gas free, not only for the climate, but also for your own home. Making your own home energy efficient helps to reduce your housing costs and gas consumption. To ensure that this happens as effectively and efficiently as possible, we have a number of questions as VVD. Mr. Chairman. We're not just doing it for the climate. With less gas consumption, we can also give the Groningers more security and more safety. That is why I am pleased that agreements have been made to designate at least four districts in Groningen as a testing ground. In any case, the Groningen people deserve to be allowed to use the reserved amount to free natural gas districts. That is what the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate last week said. Specific funds have been set aside for municipalities to make use of them. It is not yet July 1st, so municipalities still have some time, but can the minister give a closer look at the applications? Are there enough applications from Groningen yet? It's hard for neighborhoods to have at least 500 homes to stand a chance at the money. With this we force ourselves to look only at cities, while in Groningen, Overijssel and North Brabant, for example, are mainly villages. As far as the VVD is concerned, we're releasing the 500-dwelling border. This can also release the maximum number of 20 neighbourhoods. This is how we get more spread and force ourselves not just to look at urban areas. Can the Minister respond to that? If we let go of that limit, I would like to say that the Minister's allocation for the VVD gives maximum room for Groningen. Everyone will have to contribute to the sustainability of the housing market: corporations, private landlords and private homeowners. We see that everyone wants to do this: install a high efficiency boiler or water pump, apply high efficiency glass and install solar panels. This allows people to see their homes become energy efficient and their housing costs and gas consumption become lower. But we also see that not everyone can do this. As I often say, corporations have more than enough money. Private homeowners don't always have that. That is why I would like to ask the Minister about the distribution of the rest of the 90 million. She says there should be a good mix of properties, rentals and other buildings. The largest group in the housing market is that of the private homeowners. Because they do not always have enough money, the sustainability challenge is the greatest for them. That is why I would like the Minister's confirmation that there will be a balanced distribution between housing and housing and that most of the funds available will go to private home owners. Municipalities can submit districts until 1 July. Its allocation must meet a number of criteria, such as regional distribution, building type diversity, and a mix of residential and rental housing and in the approach. If that choice has been made, I would like to receive a letter from the Minister in which she addresses a number of points. Firstly, how have the criteria been fulfilled by the Minister? Secondly, which municipalities does the money go to? Thirdly, how are these criteria fulfilled by the municipalities? Can the Minister inform the Chamber about this? In addition, I ask the Minister how the Chamber is kept informed of the results of the experimental gardens. What happened to the money? What have the results been? How is the money distributed in the municipalities? In the list of questions and answers, question 15 states that the evaluation will be "the subject of discussion." I ask the Minister to keep the Chamber fully informed of the results of the testing grounds. After all, they're meant to learn from. Finally, Mr President. There is a one-off change in the budget for this year in order to be able to distribute the money. What about the years to come? Is it certain that the Ministry of the Interior will receive another 95 million next year? The VVD would like to see a coherent plan for the next climate envelope of the Minister for the Interior. This can be done even after the outcome of the climate table built environment and the subsequent debate. So I look forward to the results of that table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u6	Thank you. That calls for a number of interruptions, I see. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I listened with interest to Mr Koerhuis's speech and found that he did come up with a number of additional criteria. This raises the question of whether this is going to lead to too much fragmentation. Mr Koerhuis points out that the aim is to learn. But also a very important goal is to prove that you can also create some scale in the huge operation that is needed in the built-up environment, especially in order to loosen private capital. If you, Mr Koerhuis, are going to argue to do it all in sparsely populated areas, then I'm afraid we're not going to provide that evidence, and that could put a huge brake on that huge operation we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u8	Remember, corporations committed to sustainability six years ago. In the end, it's the corporations that have to take the big scale. If you ask the VVD, then this 90 million is mainly for where no large scale can be made, for example for private homeowners. It is indeed meant to learn from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u9	Mr Van der Lee, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u10	But it is precisely in the purchasing sector that the concept of building-related financing should be introduced. Contrary to what Mr Kops suggested, we do not know that there at all. That has yet to be realized and it is precisely in this that you need private capital to prove that you can achieve it in a scalable way. I hear Mr Koerhuis in particular arguing for a very differentiated approach and I am very concerned about this. I think you might regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u11	Again, the scale doesn't have to happen here. For the scale we have the corporations and they have committed themselves to it. Within two or three years, they are on average on energy label B. That commitment's been there since 2012, and that's where we're gonna take that scale. This 90 million is meant to learn from and to try out experimental gardens. When asked for the VVD, this happens especially with private homeowners because they don't always have enough money and they don't always have the organization that corporations do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u12	Mrs Beckerman, I think Mr Kops was just a group earlier. Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have heard Mr Koerhuis say that making homes free of natural gas is good for the climate. It's been said several times. Could he perhaps explain that, perhaps with some calculations? How much CO is involved and what is its impact on the temperature of the earth?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u14	I have not said it yet, but we have, of course, signed the Paris Agreement. This means that by 2050 we must be completely climate neutral. I have also included figures, namely that the housing market is still responsible for 22% of our energy consumption. If we are to become climate neutral, we must also do something in the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u15	Mr. Kops, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u16	I asked Mr Koerhuis how much per cent of CO is involved and what is the impact of the government's policy, not just this project, but the climate policy of this cabinet at all, on the temperature of the earth. I have to say, however, that Mr Koerhuis does not really have any idea. And that's a bad thing because we're talking about a lot of money. In this case, we are talking about 90, 95 million, but the whole climate policy is going to cost hundreds and perhaps thousands of billions. Then it is wrong that Mr Koerhuis does not know that. But just to answer my own question: the climate policy of this cabinet will, in the most favourable case, lead to a lower temperature increase of 0.00027 oC. In other words, it's negligible and it's all wasted money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u17	I didn't find out a question, but I'm giving you a chance to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u18	Let me repeat this: the housing market is responsible for 22% of our energy consumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u19	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Ronnes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The aim of the climate envelope is to gain knowledge and explore the structure for a wider programme. One of the questions that comes to our mind is: how was that secured? How do we ensure that we also convert that exploration into a wider program? But the central question is, of course,: is this minister really going to achieve the goal of scaling up the natural gas clearance of 200,000 homes a year? That is going to be a gigaklus, for which we want to make many meters in this cabinet period, with the greenest cabinet ever. Getting 10,000 homes moving in 20 neighbourhoods this year seems to us to be quite an achievement, but within a few years we have to be at the level of 200,000 homes per year. How do we prevent too much biting from happening, while this should be the foundation for the big job ahead of us? We all know what happens if the foundation of our house isn't right. Take, for example, tax incentives for hybrid cars and investments in improving air quality. In this context, it was subsequently noted that the relationship between costs and effects was missing. How is the cabinet going to prevent the relationship between costs and effects from being clearly understood in the front? And how are we going to ensure that ordinary citizens can join in the process of sustainability? The supporting surface is crucial in this respect. Let us, above all, give these aspects a good place in the follow-up. A knowledge and learning programme will be linked to the project, so that the knowledge gained can also be secured and disseminated. It is important to play together with the VNG, the Association of Dutch Municipalities. We know what the flag is like, given our latest discussions at the Housing Agenda on the relationship between the Minister and the VNG. That doesn't excite me yet. Has the approach been discussed with the VNG and is involved, and can count on the support of the VNG, that is my question. We are also curious about who will manage this knowledge and learning programme. Is that going to be in the VNG or in the Ministry, and how is the funding arranged? Is that structural? Is that an occasional thing? Has this also been in contact with and spoken to the VNG? Mr. Chairman. The Minister states that the municipalities do not have to give financial responsibility to the Empire for the actual use of the funds. We share the trust that the minister has in the municipalities. That is fine, but in this context it may be a bit strange, because the money is specifically intended to gain experience in making neighbourhoods gas-free. Without this financial accountability, an important element of what we want to learn from these pathways is missing. With the adjustment of this budget, the aim is to start some 20 neighbourhoods in 2018 with some 500 homes per neighborhood, in total around 10,000 homes. That brings us to the next question. What's with the 500-dwelling border? Does this not automatically lead to the loss of a lot of smaller projects, of which we also need to know and know how to make them more sustainable? All villages in the Netherlands are no longer eligible, because this money will go down in the large municipalities, where the big projects are also. We see the advantage of the scale and the great steps you can make, but we also see the disadvantages. It is not representative of the homes in large parts of our country. For example Boekel in Brabant, a shrinkage area in Limburg, a beautiful neighborhood in the municipality of Barneveld or a beautiful village in Overijssel is different from the cities of Rotterdam or Utrecht. We wonder if research has been done on the number of projects with more than 500 homes. My impression is that it could be very few projects. Would the Minister consider setting the border at 100 homes in order to gain experience in rural communities with small villages? This could also include rural communities that want to take on the energy transition, and in this case gas-free, regionally, together. By the way, I wonder whether the Minister has already raised expectations or even made agreements with a number of municipalities that money from The Hague was still available this year. Can the Minister clarify this? In the letter, the Minister indicated that she would at least like to start making the districts in the province of Groningen and in Rotterdam-Zuid free of natural gas, because there are major national challenges that can be well connected with sustainability. We share the choice made by the Minister. Both locations are completely different and the background to the problem is also very different, but they also have the commonality that there are major national challenges. However, we wonder to what extent the accumulation of schemes for specific regions is developing. Through other schemes, for example, Rotterdam-Zuid is already in full focus and the specific problems in this region just make the results of the pilots unusable for many other regions in the Netherlands. Through the deduction scheme of the landlord tax, the specific Rotterdam-South scheme, and the Envelope Region, a lot of money is already falling down in this region. If the balance is not lost there, our question is. That was my contribution in the first term, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u21	There is an interruption by Mr Van der Lee. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u22	To be consistent after my interruption towards Mr Koerhuis, now an interruption towards Mr Ronnes. It's about lowering it to even 100 homes. We need to go to an operation where we're gonna do 200,000 homes a year. We need scale. We're still at the very beginning. To shred it completely at the first serious attempt is to take exactly the wrong turn, in my opinion. Why the choice right now? It is much better to put those kind of harder places, more difficult houses later in the journey, if we already have much more experience?.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u23	I understand the question. How to set up the route is also a question that we have asked ourselves. We think that if you want to gain knowledge and explore the structure for a wider program, you should do it in full width. The VVD has already said it and I know that a number of other parties are in it as well: it is not the case that the villages are hanging from us on the last mem. The point is that if we have to go through such an important transition project, we will eventually get all the inhabitants of the Netherlands. That's the first thing. Secondly, you can of course make the greatest speed if you only take those big cities and the big neighborhoods. But there is a very different problem from that you have in much smaller communities in the countryside. In order to allow these things to go parallel, we think it is very important that we gain full experience and not just in the big cities, as GroenLinks suggests. Don't let the villages hang on the last mem, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u24	Thank you. Mr Van der Lee, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u25	I was born and raised myself in a village with 6,000 inhabitants. And there too, you have quarters of 500 houses. So it's really a nonsense equation, I think, to say that GroenLinks advocates only doing it in big cities. But I am concerned that these projects should have some scale. Otherwise, we're never gonna reach the pace that's necessary. And that's what you're losing sight of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u26	You said "a village with 6,000," didn't you? I was born in a village of 13,000, but I grew up in a village of 600 inhabitants. There we have barely 100 homes and there are also promising initiatives, people who want to work from the bottom up with that transition. Let us also give them the opportunity to participate in this development and let us also offer the villagers a perspective in the Netherlands to become gas-free.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u27	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks. Who looks a little surprised. You were, of course, all in your interruption... Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm very happy with what's in store. I think it is very necessary, as I have just argued by interrupting, and it is important to learn a lot of lessons in making the built environment more sustainable. It is going to cost a lot of money, I agree with Mr Kops. In the rental sector, you're talking about 108 billion, but that's only 31% of our homes. So soon you're talking about the triple. If you want to finance that, it can't be done by the government alone. Then there must also be a lot of private money and then you must have shown that this can be done on a scale and at a time and with a certain rate of return in the time that will come out. Now, at the beginning of that transition, we need very successful projects for that. I think and hope that this budget can contribute to this. I am curious about the number of applications and also about the pace that is going to be made in the selection of projects. When do we get to know which neighborhoods get budget? There have also been specific questions asked about Groningen. I think it is right that extra attention should be paid to this. I would also like to ask how far we are really going with the design of the building-related form of financing. A working group has been working for over a year and a half to figure out how this can be done legally. Are they out yet? When are we going to get the necessary legal changes to actually start this? The idea has been singing around for a long time and I think there is broad political support, but the impact is only waiting. Or is this also related to what is still being discussed at the climate table for the built-up environment? Maybe there's a good reason for that; I don't know. Do we not get an effect on this concept until after the table has been designed? Or are those parallel trajectories? That's what I'd like to know. There is also a major challenge in terms of staff. Is there enough staff to be able to carry out these projects in the near future? Is that technical staff available? We have recently received the ESC opinion in this area. The ESC has noted that there is also a significant mismatch in regions and is likely to arise in the labour market and the number of people who would be available to undertake the work. Is this also considered in the selection process? Or are these things completely separate? We also often hear concerns from residents who are part of an association of owners. Are we also looking at how we can deal with owners' associations and how we can take them into this necessary transition? Another point I would like to make concerns 5 million out of the 95 million that is going to be spent on the sustainability of schools. I wonder if the Minister is already aware of the project of the School Roof Revolution Foundation. This is a private initiative of wealthy parties that have already collected nearly 100 million euros and actually want to make an offer to all schools in the Netherlands to install solar panels for free, to take care of schools and to help them take those steps. Can I assume that the Minister would like to recommend this initiative to municipalities and encourage them to participate in the test gardens? But think also of the activities that take place from municipalities to further shape the sustainability of school buildings. These are the most important points I would like to make at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u29	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u30	I would like to come back to what was said about how large-scale you should start with such a trial process. What is a good learning curve to come up with a larger program? You say it takes a lot of private money. But why should that be the case in the metropolitan situation and not in those other places? Shouldn't you just have to make sure that you go through that learning curve in both directions, so that you can also take the appropriate measures to make that acceleration in both places?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u31	In itself, I agree with you. All I'm saying is that 500 homes really aren't just exclusively found in cities. I've been active in this field for quite some time. I have also had a lot of discussions with financial institutions in the past. They are eager to enter this world, but they say that the scale on which they work is so small that it does not fit their way of working. They need projects of a certain size, with a scale, because then they can really get in. It seems very important to me to give that priority in the start-up phase. Once they realize that this can work, you attract much more capital and you can operate much easier and much faster throughout the Netherlands. If we are now going to be subject to all kinds of demands on this very modest budget of 90 million, then we may be taking a few lessons as a government, but we have forgotten to warm up the private institutions, the financial institutions, enough to take full advantage of this. That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u32	Thank you. Mr. Ronnes, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u33	You are looking at the financial aspect in particular, but you are also looking at the social aspect. A village community is often a bit different in terms of social structure than a district in a larger city. If you want this kind of trajectories, you have to send in a different way. Do you not agree with me that the social aspect, the creation of a basis for support, is just as important as the financial element?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u34	I absolutely agree with you, but you do need a number of conditions. As a municipality, you also need capacity to handle such an operation. For this, too, you need to invest in it first. An agreement has been reached with the VNG, the IPO and the waterboards on the main lines, precisely because there is no knowledge and capacity in many levels of government to roll out these kinds of routes at the moment. Then it does not make much sense to make money available for levels of government where the initial capacity is not even available. It is not for nothing that the requirement is that they should be projects that can be rolled out. I am afraid that if we put all kinds of additional demands into it from the Chamber, we will be loosing from practice and assuming that at all levels all kinds of people are ready to do so, when we know that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u35	You want a second interruption, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u36	I will not continue this discussion now, because we are getting deeper and deeper into it. I am concerned that you see the scale of the municipalities as a critical factor for this project to succeed. I'm in a different place. The CDA has more confidence in the local government. Whether it's a big city or a smaller rural community, we think everyone on a scale should get a place in this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u37	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u38	I also have a great deal of confidence in the local level of government, but I also want to give them the opportunity to build up the capacity to do so in the future. I do not want to burden them with a task that most people are not yet able to carry out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u39	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All Dutch houses become natural gas free. This is a huge task in which twenty neighbourhoods will serve as a testing ground. The experience gained there will set the tone for the renovation of as many as 7.7 million homes. They are experimental gardens where knowledge and experience is gained on which all municipalities can build immediately. This makes it particularly important that we do not replace natural gas with fake alternatives in those neighbourhoods. That makes it extra important that we do not create lock-ins that will keep us dependent on fossil energy for longer on a detour, because that is not what we want as an example for the whole of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. We have to presort these test areas for a future that is really different from the current situation. You don't do that by connecting neighborhoods with large-scale heat grids that depend on fossil energy under the motto "fast numbers and big blows." This may look very good for the short term, but sham sustainability is cheaper than real sustainability. But apparent short-term benefits have major medium- and long-term disadvantages, for example linking coal plants, waste plants and fossil industries to a heat grid. It sounds attractive to some: residual heat generated by the burning of coal and waste gets a destination. But it makes homes and neighborhoods dependent on those fossil industries and on coal or gas plants. Cheap prices will then prove to be expensive in the slightly longer term, because gas or coal-fired power stations will disappear in the long term. So let's not tie whole neighborhoods with hands and feet to fossil energy or to dirt burners, because that's how we create what we call a lock-in in good English and bad Dutch. Penny wise, pound foolish, the British say very witty. Does the Minister share this view? I would like a reaction on how she will prevent lock-ins and whether she will not opt for false sustainability. Mr. Chairman. The change we stand for requires courage instead of safe choices and a long-term vision rather than short-term gains. This calls for a number of principles that should be guiding in the test gardens. Tonight, I'd like to present it to the Minister. For example, the energy used in neighborhoods should be generated in that neighborhood itself. If it's up to the Party for Animals, energy-neutral homes will become the norm as soon as possible. Energy can easily be generated in, in or on a building and if it does not succeed, it can be generated through surrounding buildings. We want to end this so-called renewable energy, such as energy coming from Norway through sustainability certificates. Are energy-neutral homes the norm in the test gardens? Of course, we also choose only sustainable heat sources for our heat. I told you before: connecting houses to heat grids linked to coal plants, waste plants and fossil industries is not sustainable. Linking a house to a heat grid should only be allowed if it adds sustainable fossil-free heat produced. This way, not only houses, but also heat grids will make the transition to non-fossil energy sources. Is this the starting point in the labs? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Sustainable heat is scarce. That is why we must make the most sparing use of it. Of course, energy-efficient technologies and installations are needed, but the savings that are achieved are not the ones that can be achieved with simple housing insulation. Only solid insulation allows the transition from high temperature heating to low temperature heating, for example. Then no water of 80 or 90°C needs to be pumped through pipes to warm the house, but sufficient water from 25, 30 to 55°C. By introducing an isolation standard, we assure ourselves that this isolation will actually come about. Then we can then agree that if a property is sold, that agreed standard is also met, for example through financing models. I'm gonna wait for the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u41	That's very nice of you. Mr Ronnes for his second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u42	Interesting approach. I'd still like to come back to those temperatures. You say up to 55°C. You know that there is a certain risk of drinking water and hot water at the time when they are kept in the pipes at the wrong temperatures. How do you think you will guarantee health if you are going to steer too tight at too low temperatures, rather than saying that the health aspect should also be properly placed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u43	At 55°C, I don't see these health aspects that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u44	You mentioned 55 but you started with lower temperatures. If you are talking about 25, 30, 35, 40°C, we have hot water tap points in the risk zone when it comes to health.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u45	At 40°C you get into the safe zone. You have to get rid of those hot springs at some point, of the really hot water. That could be replaced. Of course you have to keep an eye on the risks, but at 40, 55°C you really have no problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u46	There is a need for an explanatory question, I think. Finally, Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u47	Figures and research show that 40 really is in the danger zone. I would advise you to take a closer look at this before you make this kind of statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u48	I didn't hear a question, Mr. Chairman, so I think I'm gonna move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u49	Me neither. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u50	I am going to talk about the insulating measures that are often left behind because of the currently high costs and nuisances in implementation. The amounts made available by the government for this purpose are limited in proportion to the amounts invested in the sustainability of electricity. Without significantly reducing heat demand, the energy-neutral built environment becomes virtually impossible, especially because the possibilities for sustainable generation in the Netherlands are very limited. So my question is, is there an isolation standard coming up? Mr. Chairman. Is the innovation on test gardens limited to making the house natural gas free or do we opt for an integrated approach, where neighborhoods are fully ready for the future in one go? According to the Party for Animals, the latter has a strong preference. Because we are trying to limit climate change as much as possible. We're trying to avoid worse. At the same time, climate change is already in full swing. Over the past few weeks, we've had huge rain showers that plagued parts of the Netherlands. I live in Limburg myself. The village of Meerssen, for example, in South Limburg, a few kilometres from Maastricht, has been hit six times over the past four years by extreme water pollution. According to the old statistics, that would happen once every 100 years. So it's happening six times in four years. I myself live within cycling distance of Meerssen. Now I was partly in The Hague myself, but my family also saw the misery up close: well covers that came up and our basement that filled up. Luckily it didn't fill up, but we did have a lot of water pollution. So we have really had a lot of trouble in Limburg, but that also applies to other parts of the country. And that's gonna happen more often. We see it all over the country: every spring and every summer we read the reports of flooded cellars, flooded houses, streets that turn into wild water tracks and traffic tunnels that flood completely. We are therefore seeing the effects of climate change increasingly and increasingly. We need to combat climate change as much as possible. But we need to deal with the consequences that we are already seeing as much and as well as possible. This must be done to a large extent in the neighbourhoods. This can be done, among other things, by opting for more green, less asphalt and less tiles. Greener neighbourhoods really only have advantages. In the summer they are cooler, they help absorb the effects of heavy precipitation and they save energy. Because of the huge surface of concrete and asphalt and because of the small number of trees and parks, it is much warmer in many cities in summer than outside. The Minister knows that, too. She also lives in a big city. Because of that concrete, that asphalt and those tiled gardens, the nuisance after extreme rain showers is much more serious than in a green environment. With the green around us, we are also a bit healthier. This applies not only to ourselves, but also to our children. By offering more green and, for example, breeding and nesting opportunities for birds and bats, biodiversity is also given a much needed boost. Only benefits. Mr. Chairman. This integrated approach will therefore only bring benefits for the climate, for the inhabitants, for the quality of life, for public health, for plants, animals and biodiversity. My question to the Minister is: is there any experience of climate adaptation in these twenty pilot areas? Will greening of the neighborhood be explicitly included? Or does the approach focus only on solar panels, insulation and heat pumps? According to the Animal Party, that would really be a missed opportunity. Insulating measures are now often left behind because of the high costs. I'm on the wrong page right now, Mr. Chairman. Sorry about that. I'll be on my last sheet. I would like to emphasise one more thing when I talk about this integrated approach and this isolation. No matter how important housing insulation is, there is sometimes one disadvantage: old houses offer nesting opportunities for birds and bats. In well-insulated houses there are much less possibilities for this, unless you take it into account in the construction or renovation and make possible nesting possibilities, for example, with special roof tiles or edges. I'd like a response from the Minister. Another point I would like to make is about the affordability of the district. By taking zero on the meter as a starting point, for example by opting for all-electric, there are basically no more energy costs. This investment should be based on cost-neutral housing. The focus should not only be on a short earning time, but also on a healthy return. Is the principle of burden neutrality in these test gardens leading? I'd like a response. The cost of zero-on-the-meter renovations will also have to be reduced. Only with a certain volume by addressing large numbers of homes at the same time can this sustainability really come off the ground. At the moment there are only a few companies that can handle these larger volumes. Has there been sufficient thought about how these test gardens can contribute to the scaling up of zero-on-the-meter renovations? Because, as with the wind at sea, we need a tender scheme tailored to the challenge of accelerating the transition in the built environment. Has the Minister considered any financial support that will enable the massive roll-out of zero-on-the-meter renovations in the near future? My final point, Mr President. We are facing serious challenges in the areas of climate, energy and biodiversity. We now need to find solutions to this in the neighbourhood. I therefore ask the Minister to take an integrated approach in these test areas, without lock-ins, without false solutions, without moving on to subsequent cabinets and future generations. The time of "whoever lives, then cares" is over. We're gonna have to get to work right now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u51	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it will be known to many people: most of our energy bill consists of the cost of natural gas. We heat our house with it, we have a hot shower and we cook on the famous blue gas flame. That gas comes from the Groningen soil. From 1959 the coal stove and its houses disappeared rapidly connected to natural gas. We now know what major consequences gas extraction has for safety and viability in the province of Groningen. That's why, 60 years later, we're going to work on a new transition. Gas extraction's going to zero. The Christian Union considers it important to become independent of Groninger gas as soon as possible, and we want to work for a clean and healthy future for our children. The coalition agreement is based on an ambitious heat transition and reduction of gas dependence. Our homes and buildings need to get rid of the natural gas. It is good that we are already investing heavily in natural gas-free neighbourhoods this year. Many municipalities have already drawn up a vision for the heat transition and becoming gas-free neighbourhoods. But we all know that there are many municipalities that still have to start with this. Mr. Chairman. Since these are pilot projects, it is important to allocate the money to various projects: urban and rural areas, municipalities with and without heat grids, municipalities with many and few rental homes. So we can learn from the leading projects and gain experience with different situations. How does the Minister intend to implement this? Mr. Chairman. In addition to homes and businesses, I would also like to gain experience with, for example, health care institutions, which are often in the neighbourhood. Is the Minister taking this suggestion? It is also about the affordability of the heat transition for the residents. How is this included in the pilot projects? For example, the building-related funding, which my group has often spoken about, is not yet part of these projects. At the same time, interesting constructions are already possible, for example through the increase in service costs and a lower energy bill. The owners' associations, the VVEs, can also carry investments together. How does the Minister intend to ensure that the pilot projects include affordability? Mr. Chairman. Groningen must become a frontrunner in the energy transition. That's why it's good and good to see that Groningen has already been named a natural gas free testing ground. Last week I was able to read the Green Paper on Gas-free emissions of natural gas to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. I'd like to give that to this minister tonight. They are examples of house buyers who, against will and thanks, get a gas connection in their new home. I also received examples from the city of Groningen and Appingedam, where still new construction projects are connected to the natural gas network in the middle of the earthquake zone. Mr. Chairman. Let us not make the task greater than it already is in the existing construction. Will the Minister urge municipalities that current new construction projects should no longer be connected to gas, not in Groningen but also in the rest of the Netherlands? Among other things, the municipality of Utrecht has engaged developers for all new buildings in order to build natural gas-free, even in projects that are already at an advanced stage. Is the Minister prepared to encourage municipalities, project developers and network operators to make new construction projects gas-free? Last week I also put that question to the Minister for Economic Affairs, and he answered that question with: yes. I hope, therefore, that the forces will be joined in the cabinet and that both ministers will work with it vigorously. Mr. Chairman. I've seen money go to schools, too. I'm happy about that. As a result, we are also working on a healthy indoor climate. Recently, I tabled a motion to make roofs of schools and care institutions attractive for solar panels, including residents or parents. The Christian Union also asks the Minister to involve this in the pilot projects. I have just heard from the Green Left Group about the School Roof Revolution. That is also a very nice project to facilitate schools in this area. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to projects for deep geothermal energy, I notice that the expectations are high. Of course there are opportunities here, but there is now only a handful of projects in progress. Last year, State surveillance of the Mines was calling about environmental and safety risks. How does the Minister see this? Mr. Chairman. A motion by myself and Mr Jetten has recently been adopted to apply trias energetics to the heat transition and, together with heat companies and the construction sector, to implement a combination of energy saving and sustainable heat. I gave as an example that it makes no sense to connect a drafty flat to a heat grid. How is this motion implemented when the money is spent? And how is it ensured that sustainable heat is used as much as possible? Let us immediately choose the most sustainable source when making neighbourhoods gas-free. I'd like a response. A motion has also been adopted on this subject, now by Mr Jetten and myself. Mr. Chairman. On the roof of high-rise buildings, PowerNEST is an interesting technology based on wind energy. It could make the building zero-on-the-meter. If there can be scaled up, the price can be significantly reduced. A bottleneck is that installing this system does not automatically result in building value increase, because it is linked to the participants and not to the building. In this way, renewable energy in high-rise buildings is a lot less interesting. Does the Minister know this bottleneck and would she like to talk to the sector about it? Mr. Chairman. So much for my input. I look forward to the answer. I think I can now hand this Green Paper over to the Minister via the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u53	The messenger's on his way. Thank you. I see it's being received. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u54	Mr. Chairman. We are facing a great challenge. In the coming years, we will have to reduce our dependence on Groningen gas to zero. We're gonna have to get a lot of experience before we can really make meters. It is therefore important that the budget is made available to gain that experience. On the one hand, the building stock in the Netherlands is diverse. Think of ownership, construction period, purpose of the building and material selection. On the other hand, the different neighbourhoods are often very similar. Think of whole neighborhoods built in the same decade, often in a few years. They are similar buildings with comparable energy needs, and thus comparable methods of removing them from the gas and making them sustainable. Mr. Chairman. I would like the budget available with this amendment to be used to gain the broadest possible experience. Not only for residential properties, but also for properties that are rented out, whether by a corporation or by a private landlord. Not only for homes, but also for schools, sports accommodation and other important amenities. Not only for homes in villages and in the countryside, but also for homes in the big cities. Not only for projects looking at district heating, but also for projects using geothermal energy, heat pumps or other innovative techniques. Can the Minister promise that diversity will be carefully considered in the selection of projects? Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the Minister has indicated in her plans that there will be projects in Groningen and Rotterdam, which will be financed. It's good to start in Groningen. The Groningers deserve that. We hope that these plans and the budget for gas-free neighbourhoods can contribute to a good, gas-free and safe home for more Groningers. For Rotterdam-Zuid there is, of course, a great task. It is not for nothing that this is a national programme. With the many planned renovations it makes sense to go to gasless as well. Mr. Chairman. Then I have another question about the disappearance of the gas connection obligation. I understand from several municipalities that there is a lack of clarity as to the scope for considering the possibility of allowing new gas construction in exceptional cases. I hear municipalities are afraid to be required to grant an exemption. Can the Minister indicate how much space municipalities are going to be given not to grant the exemption? In other words, it can't be that the abolition of the obligation to connect is being completely undermined by the exceptions. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u55	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We need to get off the gas fast. Even the cabinet has come to that understanding. Last week we discussed the consequences of gas extraction and in the coming weeks we will discuss it further. The question today is, how are we going to get rid of the gas? And who's gonna pay for that? The cost of removing gas from an average terraced house is €18,000. To reach the climate agreement, these costs for a social rental house are even €52,000. Tenants and homeowners already see the threatening clouds hanging over their heads. They need to get off the gas and get the central heating boiler out. But how? Who's gonna cough up these staggering amounts? For many people it is not possible to become sustainable for themselves. People in average income housing are not even eligible for loans to make them more sustainable. And tenants, in many cases, cannot apply for adjustments for sustainability, or they have to pay the top price in terms of rent. According to the SP, the government should make it equally easy for everyone to live affordable, sustainable and natural gas-free, regardless of whether you live in a rental house or a store, regardless of the thickness of your wallet and wherever you live. The government must encourage, facilitate and relieve residents. The government must be there for its inhabitants and of course not the other way around. I therefore believe that it is a good thing that some 10,000 homes will be started this year. But how do we ensure affordability within this project? Where are the 10,000 homes the minister wants to start with? Why does she propose a minimum limit of 500 houses per neighborhood? This excludes villages and smaller communities. The SP believes that we should avoid inequality, including between urban and rural areas. Does the Cabinet only choose cities? If not, what will the cabinet do for all neighborhoods, including our villages? Mr. Chairman. In the proposal, we really miss out on how we will use any knowledge we have gained from the experiments for many more people. How will the Minister oversee this project? I do not think that companies and municipalities should keep that knowledge to themselves. How do we measure what knowledge gains have been made? How are we going to use that knowledge again? Is the Minister prepared to ensure that all knowledge and skills acquired are shared publicly so that they are accessible to all and accessible to all? Experiments are nice, but we have to make sure we can move on now. Does the Minister agree with me? How exactly are these experiments going to contribute to this? How is the minister going to keep pace throughout the country, not just in the labs? What goals does she set? And what time frame does this include for all the houses, flats, farms and other buildings in our country? Mr. Chairman. I come to my final point. I keep repeating that. I can't stop thinking that's weird. The Netherlands still has a public company, EBN, with a budget that exceeds the budget of the Ministry of EZK, which aims to make the Netherlands more fossilised. A public company that aims to make the Netherlands more fossilized! How can we not have a public company that aims to make the Netherlands more sustainable? We think we really need to speed up now. If we organize it that way, it can be really affordable for everyone. As far as the SP is concerned, that is urgently needed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u57	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that she needs about five minutes to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u58	I give the floor to the Minister to reply to all the questions put.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a debate on the test grounds and natural gas-free neighbourhoods and on the 90 million made available per year from the climate envelope. This is, of course, all part of achieving the objectives of Paris, which have also been mentioned today. Because it's quite an ambition we have to stop using natural gas in the built environment by 2050. This means that all tenants, all owners of homes and all buildings have to get rid of the natural gas in a period of 30 years. That seems long, but it's also a lot of homes, lots of buildings. That just means that we need to start now and we need to start experimenting now and try out how to work with customization locally and area-oriented. It takes a lot of parties to do that. These are of course the municipalities, but also residents' organisations, owners of real estate, such as housing, housing corporations, grid operators, energy companies and construction and installation companies. It is quite a chain of institutions and organisations that together have to take the neighborhood-oriented approach off the ground in the Netherlands. The cabinet would like to start this work very quickly, starting now, hence this proposal. Eventually, of course, we work towards 2021. Then all the municipalities must have drawn up a planning plan. That's what we agreed on in the inter-administrative program. We think we should build that up and start with it through this approach. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked by many of the spokesmen, so I will start with a few general questions, after which I will deal more specifically with the other questions. I simply walk the spokesmen and their questions in the order in which they were asked, but a number of questions often came back. I'll start with the labs and what they're meant for. They are indeed meant to learn. They are meant to start and to learn, and then to scale up. In our view, that is the way to achieve this. I told you, it takes a lot of parties. Therefore, in the criteria set out in the request to the municipalities, it has also been specifically stated that it is important that residents, owners and companies show real involvement, which is of course meant for the support; this only works if there is support for those who are going to do it, that there is potential for scaling up, that a cost reduction can be achieved and that it can be linked to other tasks and to the way owners and residents are able to make investments. Important criteria for testing are the regional distribution and also the diversity of Mrs Van Eijs said just now about the diversity in type of building, alternative heat facilities and a mix of buying and renting and other buildings. I would like to speak more specifically about this, because a few questions have also been asked about it. So we actually want as much difference as possible in the local conditions in the selection of projects. The potential for scaling up is very important, because once again, we are convinced of the neighborhood-oriented approach, but we need to move towards numbers that are much higher than what we will be able to achieve now. So we start relatively small and we have to go to 200,000 homes and buildings a year. Maybe I can make a mistake right away. Indeed, the documents refer to "about 500." So we're thinking of neighborhoods and neighborhoods where there are about 500 homes, but that's not a minimum. It is the number you probably need to have a scale on which you not only have homes, but also the entire energy infrastructure on which you can do these kinds of projects. But it's not a minimum, so it could be less. And indeed, those about 500 houses........................................................................................................................................................................ That is important for Mr Ronnes, I just heard. Those could be small villages. You could imagine taking the whole village as a project at a really small village. Of course, they can also be in a larger municipality. But there must be a lot of diversity in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u60	There is an interruption by Mr Ronnes on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u61	I'm looking at the letter you sent to municipalities earlier this year. It talks about cross-compliance. The preconditions are that it has to be about 500 homes per neighborhood. About 500 homes can be 450, but not 250, because then it doesn't match the conditions. It is said that one can be requested per municipality and up to one district. If the minister now indicates that they may be several villages, that does not match the invitation that went to municipalities. Then it is said: 'Municipals can participate in a large-scale testing ground for a natural gas-free district'. If I add this up, you will now paint a very different picture from what is in this letter. With this I would like to point out that it may be that a large number of municipalities have thought: we cannot participate if we look at these conditions. But the way I'm listening to the Minister right now, it could be. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. What's the deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u62	Maybe it's good to take some things apart. It says "about 500 houses," but less is also very well imaginable. This means that there is no obstacle to villages and rural communities. What Mr Ronnes is referring to when it comes to the municipalities is the way of financing. The conditions state that the money is transferred to one municipality. Municipalities could choose to work together. Of course, this can be done very well in a project. They can participate from a region or with a group of municipalities. That's fine. In fact, I would welcome that cooperation. It is the intention to do so, and so it is also stated in the letter, that they will submit separate applications, because of course the money will have to be transferred to one municipality. They must then organise this in their way of working in the regional context or in the context of several municipalities. I think that the letter gives a very full picture of how applications will be assessed. I would also point out that in this first phase, in the first test areas we can do, I expect between 30 and 60 applications. So there is a lot of enthusiasm in itself, but not everyone will of course be able or willing to participate in that first round. So there is also room for further clarification next time. The applications still have to be assessed, so I will see whether what Mr Ronnes fears has perhaps been interpreted in this way by some. I am not worried about this in advance, but I think this is a relevant point. So I will certainly draw attention to that in the assessment. We have stated that the whole of the Netherlands can apply for this, but we have asked for special attention for Rotterdam-Zuid and Groningen. This is entirely linked to the particular problem there is. Rotterdam-Zuid has been a national programme from the Reich for some time now. Het Rijk collaborates with the municipality and other parties to offer some more and new perspective for Rotterdam-Zuid. There are very important tasks that we would like to connect with the sustainability of Rotterdam-Zuid. In doing so, I would also like to implement the Van Eijs motion, which is precisely the link between the energy transition in the built environment and the other challenges there are in Rotterdam-Zuid. Something special is also happening in Groningen. There is not only the call for reinforcement, but certainly, and precisely there too, the release of natural gas from villages and cities in the light of a better future for them. That is why I have indeed said that I would like it if we could at least take Rotterdam-Zuid and Groningen with us in this first test garden phase. Then, of course, a suitable project must be presented. Finally, Mr President. Then I will go to the specific questions by spokesperson. I'd almost say this is a first instalment. But for now it's the only tranche, because it was about this year's money. We have distributed the resources from the climate envelope, and we have earmarked this money for these experimental gardens. That must be done again next year. The decision-making process has yet to take place. This will, of course, also be linked to the decision-making process on the climate agreement after the climate table has come up with proposals. Mr. Chairman. That in general is in advance in response to a number of, I think, pressing questions. Then Mr Kops, of whom I noticed that he was the only one who was actually less enthusiastic about the testing grounds. Everyone else had a certain degree of enthusiasm. Mr Kops wondered why more knowledge and experience is needed at all. I think I have just argued this: because we are moving towards that much more large-scale energy transition and we are making the Netherlands natural gas free. There is also a great deal of support for this in our country. I just mentioned the climate agreement. You will. Learning how to do that switching cost-effectively, so in order to achieve cost-reduction, the money must of course be raised and that comes from all of us eventually. In my opinion, the test gardens are a suitable instrument for this. Mr Kops also asked if I could indicate which municipalities have signed up. I can't do that right now. I expect between 30 and 60. As of July 1st, that will be known. The responsibility. We will make agreements with the municipalities that want to participate in the form of a covenant. These are results agreements with the municipalities. So it is the intention that on the basis of the applications we will look at the realization and what we can learn from it with each other, otherwise it is not a learning project either. I think Mr Kops might be talking about accountability in the financial sense. It will be delivered to the city council. So we're steering on the targets and the results. I will report to the Chamber on this, but the more specific financial accountability will take place at local level. Mr Kops and a number of other members asked about building-related funding. The content of the proposals for how we can achieve this building-related funding is part of the talks at the climate table, to be precise at the table that deals with the built environment under the direction of Diederik Samsom. I think it is an incredibly important way to ensure that private owners who want to invest can do the same. The results will follow after we have taken note of the outcome of the climate table. To finish this theme, I would like to say the following. Mr Van der Lee also asked about it. The building-related funding has been studied before. That's right. That's finished, too. I am glad that it is now part of the issues that are being discussed on that table, because it will involve us in the whole question of how we deal with this energy transition in a built environment. I will come to the Chamber shortly with a letter of progress on energy saving. I hope to do so before the summer recess. I will also include building-related funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u63	There is an interruption by Mr Van der Lee. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one point. It's good to hear what the Minister says. Can I then assume that there are no legal obstacles left, but that the modality will depend on a broader agreement being made at that table and that there will not be all kinds of legal obstacles that will have to be fully investigated first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u65	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u66	It is my hope and expectation that the climate table will come up with very concrete and manageable proposals, precisely in order to overcome the obstacles that, of course, exist or to come up with solutions to them. But don't let me anticipate what the table will recommend. I think we all have the hope and expectation that we will have solutions to this later. Mr. Chairman. I have come to Mr Koerhuis, who also asked about the number of applications. I said something about that earlier. Maybe I can extend the answer to him as far as Groningen is concerned by linking it to the reinforcements. I just said something about that, too. Groningen is in itself a logical place to quickly proceed with gas-free. Due to the reinforcements that were already there and which have already started, it is even more urgent to offer the perspective of a sustainable home to people, including homeowners in Groningen. Safety is, of course, paramount, but making it more sustainable can be an attractive perspective. Mr Koerhuis also asked, like Mr Ronnes, for the 500 houses. I think we have already talked about this to a sufficient extent. Then there is an important point to which Mr Koerhuis asked: the distribution. He asked for confirmation that the selection involves a balanced distribution between rent and purchase. I aim for a balanced distribution, between rent and purchase but also between social and commercial. That is what I consider relevant considerations. I find it difficult to say, for example, that I am sending on as large a share as possible. First of all, I would like to see what proposals are being put forward by the various municipalities. I want to ensure the diversity that I argued about at the beginning. So I would like to say a balanced mix to Mr Koerhuis, but I would like to take a break because I do not yet know exactly what the proposals are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u67	I see an interruption by Mr Koerhuis about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u68	I have two questions on the possible proposals. The first is: are there any proposals from Groningen yet? Could you tell me a little bit more about that? I understand that you find it difficult to bet that most of the money is going to buy houses, but we have to acknowledge that most of the homes in the Netherlands are buying houses and that the private home owners do not always have enough money. We should take that into the distribution, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u69	I certainly expect applications from Groningen, but municipalities can submit until 1 July and take their request back if they want to, so I will wait until the deadline has expired. The fact is that, in the end, we must make the whole of the Netherlands more sustainable and have the whole of the Netherlands rid of natural gas. That also means all these properties; there are quite a lot of them. What is special about this approach is that we are talking about neighborhoods. Neighborhoods in the Netherlands are often diverse and mixed, but not always. That's why I'm holding my own. Let the committee which assesses it look carefully at the diversity of the proposals and take into account all the elements I have just mentioned, i.e. the scalability and probability of the project, the cost reduction options it brings and the mix between purchase and rental that Mr Koerhuis considers important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u70	That is enough for Mr Koerhuis. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u71	I had already answered a number of questions at the beginning, which were primarily asked by Mr Koerhuis, so I hope I have now answered his questions. Mr Ronnes had an intrusive question about what I believe he called "snap work." I fully agree with Mr Ronnes that this should not be the case. Because indeed, we want to scale up. We want to move from 10,000 or 20,000 to 200,000 a year, and eventually to the whole of the Netherlands. This is directly linked to what we want to do with the climate agreement. The fact that we're experimenting with and we need to find test gardens means that they're in different places, that they're gonna look different and that we're gonna be able to learn different lessons from them, but that has a very clear goal. Its purpose is to learn. I'm sure, as it always happens with this kind of thing, that technology and experience are going to help. As we scale up, there are innovations. Then we figured out how to fly this kind of thing practically and conveniently. So it's really a step towards that scaling up, a step towards those larger numbers. What I do think is crucial is that I heard Mr Ronnes say that there is involvement of residents, of people, and that there is support. This will also have to be given a great deal of attention in this first phase of the experimental gardens. I mentioned in my introduction that we are working towards 2021, the year in which municipalities will also be asked to have a planning for their municipality. So in that context, too, these test gardens are relevant and also within that framework we will... By the way, the municipalities that do not do a pilot themselves or do a test area can also be part of the whole learning process. The letter states that those municipalities that do not want to designate a district themselves can register to work towards 2021 at this stage, so that at that time they can better plan how and when they can make which districts energy neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u72	In this context, I have also made a link to, for example, hybrid cars and the investments of the Empire in improving air quality. Research carried out by the Court of Auditors has shown, among other things, that the link with the effectiveness of the money we put into it has not always been optimal. I do not want to put that on your plate as Minister of State but on that of the Cabinet, but would you like to see how we can prevent this kind of thing when we enter that whole transition phase? In particular, the financial aspect and the aspect of traceability of "these funds are also being used effectively and efficiently" need to be regulated in the front so that we can take a good look afterwards at the fact that the goal that we wanted to achieve together has been achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u73	I fully agree with Mr Ronnes. The goal is clear. The aim is that neighbourhoods that are still on natural gas are not going to be anymore. That is clear and measurable, but we have an eye for more than that. We also have an eye for the scaling-up and cost reduction that we want to achieve. I do think Mr Ronnes is right. We'll start with test areas, and that means we don't know everything yet. That is why we must have a clear objective in mind and we must also be sure that the money... Look, of course what's interesting to see is that in more uniform neighborhoods you can do these kinds of transitions at relatively low cost. In neighbourhoods that are not uniform, it is more complicated and then it is of course very interesting to see how you can do it in a cost-effective way. I therefore agree with his approach, although I am not fully aware of the examples he gave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u74	That would provoke an interruption by Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u75	I wonder if the Minister is prepared to refer this matter to fellow ministers as well. I look at the Minister of Climate, but perhaps also at the Minister of Finance. The cabinet must have an umbrella view of how it is going to ensure that these bins of money are spent responsibly, because this is going to deal with very, very large money flows in the near future! It should not have been like some of the things we have put money into in the past, because sometimes we had to say afterwards: we might have been able to do that more efficiently and better and perhaps we should have done it in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u76	The cabinet, of course, sees this in conjunction. That is why we have also set the climate table. We will look at it in its entirety, although there are, of course, different portfolios and different responsibilities when it comes to drawing up it. I told you before, there are a lot of parties involved. This whole transition will also not only be funded by the government. On the contrary, of course, a lot of parties are needed for this, also in the financial sense. So I think we all have a great interest in ensuring a cost-effective way of achieving this transition. Mr Ronnes was concerned about the role of the VNG. The knowledge and learning programme I just mentioned is a programme in which all the municipalities can be involved. We will set up this programme together with the VNG and also with the IPO and the Union of Water Councils. An amount has also been set aside for this. The VNG has been involved in drawing up the criteria. The VNG is involved in the selection of projects. So we are working very well with the VNG on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u77	I don't know how many more interruptions I'm allowed to make?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u78	This is the last one. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u79	I hope that this has given me sufficient attention to the points I have raised. I'm asking a related question. To what extent is the role of energy counters still being considered? I think things are coming together in this direction. How can the energy outlets that are regionally active be properly linked to this flow of information? I believe that this is crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u80	I've noted the point. I will look into that for Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u81	I also see an interruption by Mr Koerhuis, who was ready to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u82	To support Mr Ronnes on the question of accountability, I had also asked in my speech whether the Minister would at least like to inform the Chamber when it makes the choice of these municipalities. How did it fulfil the criteria and how did the municipalities fulfil them? Does the Commission also intend to keep the Court informed of the way in which the money is being spent on ongoing projects? Could the Minister comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u83	Sure. I have just said that I would very much like to share with the Chamber the selection and the agreements that will eventually be made. I would, of course, also like to set up a process that will not only be taught in the project itself, or in the testing ground itself, but that we can all learn from it because of the scaling-up, the cost reduction and the other things I have just mentioned. In doing so, we must find a proper balance so that the Chamber is not overloaded with information on the projects at the level of the district as such. Some of it just needs to happen at the local level, I think. We need to find the right level of abstraction so that the Chamber is well aware of the effectiveness of spending this 90 million and hopefully more money in the future, while it can do more precise, detailed work at the local level. I will work for that; the Chamber can count on that. I've had the VNG, and I've had the responsibility. There is one more question that I would like to answer from Mr Ronnes. I have just said something about Rotterdam-Zuid and about Groningen. Mr Ronnes' question was whether there are other agreements with municipalities about money. That is not the case. Besides, there are no such agreements with Rotterdam and Groningen, other than that I would find it nice and logical if they were part of these first test gardens. It is simply an open registration of municipalities until 1 July. A decision will then be taken on the basis of the opinion of that committee, which has been broadly composed. I come to Mr Van der Lee's questions, as far as I have not already answered them, because some of them have already passed the review. Mr Van der Lee asked if there was enough technical staff. That is, of course, a fair question, because it is a great task. I think we really need to work on that, because it's a bottleneck. Maybe that's not on the scale we're working on right now. Moreover, it is not the case that work is being carried out only in these experimental gardens on the extraction of natural gas from homes or buildings. Of course, that's already happening. As a cabinet, we are very aware of the fact that there is a shortage of labour in any case and that there are shortages in the field of technology. If you want to take a positive look at that, I'd love to do that.Of course it's also a chance. It is an opportunity for young people to choose training in this direction, because there is a shortage there. It is also an opportunity for our economy, because it is a very big task. This means that we are still working on this for decades. So there is also decades of work for people. This is also something in which the government and the market players have to look each other up to make sure that people are trained for this kind of thing, that they have the good skills, that there are enough people with technical knowledge and that the people who get out of schools and training are also immediately available to businesses. So that needs attention. I agree with Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u84	An interruption by Mr Van der Lee on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u85	Thank you very much for that answer. I have one supplement and one question. We have just received this ESC opinion on the energy transition and its employment aspects. I found it fascinating that people have reasonably mapped out how big the mismatches are, sorry for English, in regions. In particular, in the shrinking areas where there is already a shortage of technically skilled personnel, even at this time of high economic growth, it is becoming all the more difficult to achieve a transition. Then the question is who will be directing a major roll-out and how we will take into account available capacity in which place. On the contrary, I want the outlying areas to be reached, but if you do not take into account the shortage of staff, you have to make a lot of money if you want to do so at the same rate as in those places where that staff happens to be available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u86	These are, of course, issues that are also regionally real. I happened to be in the city of Groningen today to talk to the region of the three northern provinces. There you see a city that is booming, I would almost say, and a region where one has to deal in part with very different problems, namely shrinkage. There's a problem, but there's another chance. Because if you can connect those two, which were discussed by those local administrators, there is also a part of the solution. I understand very well that Mr Van der Lee spoke of direction, I think he is right about that. But that direction can also be very good regional. If I can encourage that, I will. Mr Van der Lee also asked about vve's. Of course, because vve's are present in neighborhoods, so they can just be part of such a project. Mr Van der Lee asked if I knew the school roof revolution. Yes, I do. It is also supported by the Ministry. Of course, because it's a very nice project. I am therefore very happy to bring that to the attention of the House. Mr Wassenberg had many questions. I hope I will answer them to a reasonable extent, as far as they are concerned about these test areas. He warned about the so-called "lock-in," so the residual heat from fossil sources that then enters those heat grids. It is important that if municipalities want to participate in these test gardens, we ask them how the heat is preserved when there is heat grids. That is part of the criteria, because the goal is ultimately a completely sustainable neighbourhood. Of course it's about a transition, so you can start somewhere and then work towards a completely sustainable neighborhood via the heat grids that are not yet fully sustainable. That is the intention, and that is what the criteria say. Then energy neutrality. These test gardens are natural gas-free neighbourhoods with the most cost-effective mix of energy saving and buildings and heat supply with sustainable heat. So it doesn't necessarily have to be just the house, it's about sustainable at the lowest possible social cost. For new construction, you can set an energy-neutral standard and that is true, but in a number of other situations we can imagine that is much more difficult. Then there's mandatory isolation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u87	Apologies, Mr Wassenberg has an interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u88	I still have a question about that lock-in. The Minister says that it is not intended and that it is part of the criteria that it is ultimately sustainable heat. So now that's not always the case. But that's precisely the dreaded lock-in: it's not the case yet, we all want it, but how do you get there? That's often very difficult, because before you know it, you'll be stuck with it for 20 years. That difference between wanting and being able, that's that lock-in. So I'd like to know a little bit more about those criteria. How do you avoid being stuck with it for 20 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u89	I believe that these criteria clearly state that they must ultimately be sustainable. It must be a heat supply with sustainable heat, combined with social costs, which we want to keep as low as possible. So I recognize Mr Wassenberg's problem. Because this is about the built environment, so not about new construction, we all know that energy-neutral is not always possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u90	So, if I can sum it up like that, it's a result obligation and not an effort commitment. In the end, it's really about the result.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u91	It is the result, and that must be a natural gas-free district that is as sustainable as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u92	I was also talking about waste incineration plants, not just gas plants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u93	I realize that. Again, we have not yet done the selection, but the objective is clear and the criteria are also clear. We will see in the final selection whether there were proposals of this kind or not, but the problem is well known.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u94	This is also important for my group. This Chamber also adopted a motion by Christian Union and D66 on this issue. We must avoid investing in houses that are also extremely drafty. So let us also focus on energy saving. Have I understood correctly to the Minister that the following is also one of the criteria? If we invest in neighborhoods and go off the gas like neighborhoods, we go for sustainable heat combined with energy saving, so that the heat generated sustainably doesn't fly out through the windows again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u95	That makes so much sense that you'd say hurry... That must, of course, be part of those criteria. As with the climate agreement, I say to Mr Wassenberg, here too, the question is how to decorate the energy transition in the built environment without lock-in, if possible, and without inefficiencies. This would be such an inefficiency: generating sustainable heat, but then allowing it to escape through poor insulation. This must, of course, be an integral approach. I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u96	Enough like that, Mrs. Fat? Yes. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u97	Yes. I've had energy neutrality. The mandatory isolation requested by Mr Wassenberg is also a subject at the table of the climate agreement. We want as much energy savings as possible. Good insulation will also be an important starting point, but I have to wait and see what comes out of the table. That's when we'll be able to answer that question. Mr Wassenberg also asked whether heat networks would only be allowed if they were linked to sustainable sources. Actually, that has something to do with what we just talked about. Municipalities must indeed indicate how and when this will be achieved. That means I'm almost repeating that you could do it with industrial residual heat or something, as long as there is an ambition and a planning for sustainability. Mr Wassenberg also asked for an integrated approach to climate adaptation. If we start working on test gardens, will climate adaptation be taken into account? The criteria indicate that municipalities could link with other tasks in the district concerned, such as climate adaptation, if relevant. Of course, that is not necessarily relevant everywhere, but if it is relevant, it could be very useful. Mr Wassenberg also referred to the zero-to-the-meter focus and the cost-neutrality of housing. I have just said that as low as possible social costs are the starting point for the criteria. Affordability is, of course, an important element in this. This does not necessarily mean zero on the meter, but if the municipality finds this the best solution, then it can. This will also play a role in the assessment, if we look at the diversity and the distribution. Mr Wassenberg also paid attention to the buildings as such. He said that too good construction with certain forms of isolation can also be detrimental to birds, for example. These are issues that, in my opinion, municipalities can deal with well. They often involve this in their own local regulations. For example, I know of an example of Power Acceleration. Perhaps Mr Wassenberg knows that. They have achieved good examples of this. Then there are Mrs Dik-Faber's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u98	There is another interruption by Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u99	The Minister refers to Power Acceleration. We went to work there together with the group. They do have good initiatives, but that's just one company, one organization. It would be very nice if there would be an incentive from the government or perhaps even an obligation to do so, because not everyone does it: Accelerating power, but not everyone. I just want everyone to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u100	There is a kind of minimum level, because everyone has to comply with the Birds and Habitats guidelines. Accelerating is an example, but there are certainly more. I think there are also many municipalities that pay close attention to this and promote it. It is very good that Mr Wassenberg should draw attention to this, but I think that it will receive the necessary attention in general terms at municipal level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u101	Just finishing up, though. It is true that there are municipalities that are doing well and that there are also bodies that are doing well, but not everyone is doing it. Everyone should be paying attention to it. That's why I'm asking if there can't be a little more incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u102	Perhaps so, but in the context of this project and these experimental gardens... This issue is about isolation. Actually, it goes a little further than what we're discussing here at the labs. Mrs Dik-Faber asked for attention for e.g. care complexes as part of the test gardens. I think that is a very good point. I have just said that it must be diverse and balanced. It may well be that this is part of some of the proposals, but we will have to assess that when we know the applications. Mrs Dik-Faber had another question that saw on new construction. When municipalities realise new construction, it becomes more gas-free. Where I come from in the country, I can see that people say that we are only doing gas-free construction. That's not happening everywhere, but it's going that way. I'm definitely working on that, too. It will also be addressed in the framework of the climate agreement. It also helps, of course, that new projects will no longer have a natural gas connection from 1 July. I think a lot of it works that way. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked about environmental effects in geothermal energy. This brings me very much to the area of my colleague from EZK. He knows more about that than I do. Perhaps it is a good idea for me to pass on Mrs Dik-Faber's question to Mr Wiebes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u103	The latter is certainly a good idea. My specific question would therefore be whether it is already foreseen that geothermal energy is part of the experimental gardens. Or isn't that the issue right away, because they are quite complex and also very expensive projects?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u104	I don't know, because it depends on whether there's an application involving geothermals. I can't judge that right now. It is true that it is not the most easy to realise projects, but of course there are municipalities in the Netherlands where this offers good prospects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u105	Chairman... I just lost my previous point. I'm sorry. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u106	No problem. We'll hold him for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u107	Mrs Dik Faber paid attention to solar panels in schools, just like the GroenLinks group. I have already said in my reply to Mr Van der Lee that I would like to bring it to the fore. We know the project, but I mean it in general. I am also working in the framework of the resources made available here with the PO Council, the VO Council and OCW. Besides, the Minister of OCW is in the process of making schools more sustainable. This fits in very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u108	I think Mrs. Dik-Faber remembers her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u109	Mr President, this is my fourth debate today. At some point it's a bit much. But I remember it. I gave the Minister the Green Paper Gas-free. There are projects that are actually realized after 1 July, which are already in the pipeline, but which are still connected to the gas. Sometimes they are only delivered far in the autumn, but that gas connection is still provided. So in that booklet are all stories of people who don't want to, but they're in front of the developer. A family to a developer; they are not really equal parties. My question to the Minister is: will she talk with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs with the municipalities, the developers and the network operators to see if they can still get rid of the gas? I know there's a cost involved, but if we don't do it now, the costs will only increase. We are also building up the backlog for the future, and we do not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u110	Thank you. I have the Green Paper Gas-free here. I'm going to read it with interest, of course. Mrs Dik-Faber's question is in fact in line with Mrs Van Eijs' question on the possibility of derogations for municipalities. That's a bit of the reverse question, but it comes down to the same thing. Look, there's got to be some kind of transition, I think. There are projects that have been at a very far-reaching stage, and it may be difficult to say, to demand that it is no longer possible from 1 July. That is why the municipalities have been given the space to make these exceptions. I just heard Mrs Van Eijs say that it seems that municipalities feel that they should give that exception. In other words, they can only give the exception. I hear Mrs Dik-Faber now saying that she actually wants to be even stricter. It wants projects that are on the verge of yielding to get rid of natural gas. No matter how much sympathy I have for that, that is not always realistic. Municipalities can, of course, bring that to the attention of the public. They can stimulate it. They can, of course, do a lot about it with calls and political statements. Again, we all want to get rid of natural gas, but it must be possible. So it is good that Mrs Dik-Faber makes that call through the Green Paper. I call upon congregations to deal with it carefully. They'll get that exception. It will be specified by ministerial regulation. That is the answer to Mrs Van Eijs' question. Municipalities are not obliged to give that exception at all, but simply have to make that assessment in reasonable terms. We will also be more active in communicating about this. The VNG will do the same, because the other side is also that we do not want to slow down housing production by these measures. So just handle it carefully and reasonably, that's the best approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u111	Thank you. Mrs. Dik-Faber, finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u112	I understand the Minister. Indeed, the municipal balance has to be made. At the same time, I mentioned the municipality of Utrecht, which, with the heavy construction effort they have, showed that by talking to the developers and the network operators, they were able to speed up their decision to stop connecting houses to the gas. This also concerns housing projects that are already far in the pipeline. So it's possible. Let's encourage municipalities to just take all that step now, where that really is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u113	I know the example of the municipality of Utrecht. That is indeed a good example. Let's say good example often follows.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u114	There is an interruption by Mr Koerhuis. You have actually had a few interruptions, but I give you the opportunity to put another question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u115	Yeah, 'cause now a little bit breaks my clog. In my opinion, the Minister's figures show that Utrecht is not doing well at all. That's what the construction is left behind. Research shows that this is precisely because of this kind of additional sustainability requirements of the municipality. Can the Minister respond to how that is consistent with what I hear now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u116	My comments and compliments towards the municipality of Utrecht focused on the fact that they have indeed succeeded in making the existing built area gas-free. They have set a good example. I would very much encourage them to continue with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u117	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u118	But does the Minister recognise that the construction remains in Groningen? That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about new construction. In fact, that's what the Ministry's figures show. This also applies to the new construction in Utrecht. This study shows that there is a little too tight a requirement for sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u119	I stand by my compliment for the sustainability that is being achieved. Utrecht is booming, not just Groningen. There's a lot of construction going on. There's a lot of plans. In Utrecht, of course, they want to realize this internally. I think that is what Mr Koerhuis is referring to. Mrs. Dik-Faber asked about the geothermals. I can now say that it is certainly possible that geothermal energy is part of such an application. The impression is that there will be. Mrs Dik-Faber asked how high-rise construction could be promoted, because renewable energy in high-rise construction is difficult. Here too, the district-based approach can of course include high-rise buildings, but I have to wait and see what I can do. We know, for example, from corporations in large cities that have relatively high-rise buildings, that it would be a good thing that they also play the leading role. That's part of the conversation that's going on at the climate table. All this must of course be done in a balanced balance between rent and purchase, private and large- and small-scale. Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions. Mrs Van Eijs asked if it was possible to use the test gardens for as many different projects as possible. I think I've said a few things about that. In her direction, too, I would like to stress that municipalities that do not participate in a testing ground can still participate in the entire curriculum, so that they can enter the course further on. I answered Mrs Van Eijs' other questions. Then I'll go see Mrs. Beckerman. She also had an impressive number of questions. Let's see how best to answer them. Some of her questions mainly came down to: who pays for this whole sustainability? That can be a difficult task for some people. The idea at the test gardens is indeed to start funding the unprofitable summit, so that the rest is affordable, and to achieve cost reduction through the learning process and the acquisition of experience, so that you can do it for less money or do more homes for the same money next time. That's part of the learning process. How we are going to test the results and measure and disseminate the knowledge we are acquiring must be part of the process we are entering. This is done through monitoring, through evaluation and through reporting to the Chamber, which I have promised. Above all, we must use that knowledge and experience throughout the chain of all those parties involved. That is how we imagine this project to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u120	That calls for an interruption by Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u121	This is a very important point for us. We're gonna put public money into this. We want it to end well. And we're doing these experiments just to make sure that next time it's better and cheaper. We know that the government isn't always doing well. So we want to make sure that things are going well here, but also that the knowledge we gain is available to everyone. Does the Minister want to guarantee that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u122	Sure, but if Mrs. Beckerman means "everyone," I can't guarantee that. But I can guarantee that the municipalities, where it eventually comes together, will all be given the opportunity to learn what is learned in these test areas, very actively by, for example, connecting from the outset in that learning process, or passively or later. It doesn't matter, but that opportunity will certainly be offered to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u123	Yeah, it's important that it gets to the municipalities, but I'd like to ask you to take individuals too. There are a lot of people in the Netherlands who really see the dark cloud of sustainability coming and perhaps want something, but who now do not have the knowledge and therefore could benefit from the knowledge we gain from these experiments. So again, could that also apply to wider groups? 'Cause it's really hard for a lot of people to see right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u124	I agree with Mrs Beckerman. The only thing I would like to say is that part of the design of these test areas is that it has to have a certain scale. Hence the neighborhood-oriented approach, that area-oriented approach. This means that there will be coherence in the homes and buildings involved, in the energy grid it concerns. That's why I don't know if it's equally relevant to every individual. Other ways are perhaps more appropriate to take them into technical knowledge, knowledge about access to funding opportunities and so on. But in itself it is the intention to share the knowledge that is gained. I think that's a very good idea, too. Mrs. Beckerman also asked how we're gonna speed things up. I think I said a few things about that. We are working on this construction by starting this year and working towards 2021, when all municipalities need to have a schedule to enable us as a country to work towards the really large numbers afterwards. Finally, Mrs Beckerman asked the following question. We have EBN; it creates gas. Why isn't there a public company that provides sustainable energy supply? This too is a question that goes beyond my portfolio. It is really a question for Mr Wiebes, but I am happy to pass the question on to the Minister of EZK. Finally, can I answer Mr Ronnes' question about the energy points? The energy counters play an important role in providing local advice on measures for owners and residents. The climate agreement also looks at how these energy counters can be used for natural gas-free neighbourhoods. They will also be involved in the knowledge and learning programme, so that there is a good link. Perhaps I can reassure Mr Ronnes on that point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u125	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term. Many questions have been asked in the first period, but I think the Minister has also replied in detail. For those who need it, therefore, I propose that we keep a short second term. Mr Kops does not want to do so, but Mr Koerhuis does need a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for indeed answering the many questions in detail. As I indicated in the first term, it is important for the VVD to have a balanced distribution of the 90 million. The Minister writes that there should be a good mix of buying and renting houses and other buildings. As I said, the largest group in the housing market are private homeowners. Because they do not always have enough money, the sustainability statement is greatest there. Let's push it in the back and not forget it in this story. That is why my colleague Ronnes will be tabling a motion on behalf of the coalition, calling, among other things, for a balanced distribution between rental and purchase homes. For the VVD it is important that most of the funds available go to private homeowners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u127	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Ronnes of the CDA. At least we know he's gonna file a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u128	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I welcome the Minister's commitment to pay enormous attention to the organisation of these energy points. I believe that they will play an important key role in reaching out to citizens in all areas of our country. So we look forward to the proposal that will come forward in the long term. It is also a good thing that the Minister has said that the experience we get from these pilots shows that they end up there. Then I come to the motion, which has already been announced by my predecessor, Mr Koerhuis. I shall table this motion together with Mrs Van Eijs, Mr Koerhuis and Mrs Dik-Faber. The following points will be discussed. First of all, the small neighbourhoods and the villages. In addition, attention is paid to community homes, health care, education and sports institutions and a balanced distribution between rental and buying houses. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the aim is to free 10,000 homes of natural gas by 2018 by launching pilots in approximately 20 neighbourhoods;]] [[Whereas the limit is that these areas must be at least 500 houses, which automatically leads to the loss of smaller neighbourhoods and smaller villages, and therefore no experience is gained in the removal of natural gas from smaller districts or villages;]] [[Whereas the largest group of houses are residential properties and the declaration of sustainability is the highest;]] [[Whereas community centers, health care, education and sports institutions are also part of neighbourhoods;]] [[calls on the Government to include small neighbourhoods and/or villages in the natural gas-free pilots to be held by releasing the minimum limit of 500 homes per neighborhood and the maximum limit of 20 districts;]] [[calls on the Government to provide a balanced distribution of the available funds to residential and rental housing in the mix of residential and rental housing and also to pay attention to neighbourhoods and health, education and sports institutions;]] [[calls on municipalities to inform that smaller districts and/or villages can also be declared to qualify for a natural gas-free pilot,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ronnes, Mr Van Eijs, Mr Koerhuis and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34902-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u129	I cannot deny that the coalition has worked hard and formulated a whole list of criteria. But I would like to know what the implication of that should be for the Minister. There are 17 days before it's July 1st. Does this mean that you want to push forward that date now, that all these municipalities should check with these criteria to see if they still have projects? Is that the intention? Or is it the intention to look at the selection later, when 30 to 60 projects have been notified? That makes a lot of difference, including for the progress of the project.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u130	The intention is first of all to consider the projects already submitted in such a way that these aspects are also taken into account. That's the first thing. You have rightly said that there are still a few days left in which municipalities can submit projects. I know that many municipalities in the country are active in setting up experiments in this field. So it could be that projects are already being submitted in the short term. There will be a second tranche next year, as the Minister said. This of course gives some nice pickposts for next year's journey. I also hope that the Minister in the letter she then sends to the municipalities is also a little clearer about the fact that the kind of considerations that we have appointed here by the municipalities can be seen in this way, so that small districts and villages can find a place in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u131	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Lee for his brief second-term contribution. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. Before I read it, I would like to make a comment about the test gardens and learning. In a previous life, I worked in a sector where we celebrated the brilliant failure every year. Because if you want to learn something, you also need to learn from failures. But in our political culture you must hardly fail, because it is about public money and it must always lead to successes, even if success may be difficult to prove. I therefore hope that attention will also be paid to the brilliant failure in this process, because from this we may be able to learn the most to avoid future mistakes. My motion is about the School Roof Revolution. That's a fantastic project. I think it is also good to highlight that with a motion to give it even more attention. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Schooldak Revolution Foundation aims to introduce solar panels and other energy-saving measures in 6,000 schools and collects 100 million euros of private money for this purpose;]] [[Considering that these schools can take care of and save money, this increases the share of renewable energy and contributes to education around the energy transition;]] [[calls on the Government to draw attention to this initiative in schools and municipalities and to involve in the programmes for natural gas-free neighbourhoods and for scaling up the sustainability of primary schools,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34902-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u133	Your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u134	It is about a subject that I failed to name in the first term, because I was so involved in the discussion about scale. Sorry about that. This is an investigation. Our northern neighbours, the Danes, have a head start on us in many areas, for example in the field of renewable energy, but also in terms of achieving results on heat and ensuring that you sometimes need less high temperatures. It's also about tap water and legionella. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that hot tap water is currently required to be kept at 55°C in order to prevent legionella contamination;]] [[Whereas other ways of controlling legionella contamination are possible;]] [[Whereas this requirement leads to sub-optimal choices in sustainable urban district heat plans;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of reducing this requirement without causing any danger to public health;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34902-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers. I have five motions. That sounds like a lot, but they last about as long together as that one coalition motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considering the importance of avoiding lock-ins, with which we remain longer dependent on fossil energy;]] [[calls on the Government to establish sustainable heat as a standard for test gardens and neighbourhoods only to be linked to a heat grid when adding sustainable and fossil-free heat produced to it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34902-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u136	It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas energy can easily be generated on or on a building;]] [[calls on the government to establish energy-neutral neighbourhoods as a standard for the test gardens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34902-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u137	It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the importance of residential insulation;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce an isolation standard for the test gardens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34902-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u138	Well, Mr. Chairman, say for yourself, is this going fast or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u139	I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u140	The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the importance of integrated renovations, with the district being prepared for the future in one go;]] [[noting that greening of the district has benefits for climate, energy consumption, viability, public health and biodiversity;]] [[calls on the government to take with it experience of climate adaptation and greening of the neighborhood in the laboratory,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34902-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u141	The latter is a short and handwritten motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas isolation of houses should not be at the expense of nesting facilities for birds and bats;]] [[calls on the government to make nesting possibilities part of the renovation in the test yard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34902-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u142	With two seconds left on the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u143	I've given you a little more time. Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to help you because I don't have any motion. My name is under Mr Ronnes' motion and Mr Van der Lee's motion. So I don't have a motion of my own. I do have a question about geothermals. I see the odds of geothermality, but at the same time the risks. I would like to remind you of the report on State surveillance of the Mines. This was said last year that the environmental and safety risks are not sufficiently recognised. Is this also included in the assessment of projects? I can see the possibilities, but I can also see the disadvantages. In this respect, I have a certain hesitation in myself: should geothermal energy become the great solution for the sustainability of the built-up environment? Geothermics are often referred to, but aren't the expectations too high? Mr. Chairman. There's one more question I haven't answered. It's about PowerNEST, an interesting technique based on wind energy on rooftops, on high-rise buildings. This technique is applied very little, because the system is linked to participants and not to the building. As a result, it does not automatically lead to building value increase. My question to the Minister was simply: does she know this bottleneck and does she want to talk to the sector about it? I hope she can promise that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u145	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman, who also wishes to make very brief use of her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For my party, it is really important that we do not just give away this money, but also look very closely at what is being gained and whether it is going well. That's why I'm filing this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Rijk and the Vereniging van Nederlandse Gemeenten are starting a knowledge and learning programme for municipalities;]] [[Whereas knowledge and skills should be available to all in order to speed up the development of more natural gas-free neighbourhoods;]] [[Whereas a knowledge monopoly should be avoided in a public authority or in companies;]] [[calls on the government to make the knowledge and skills acquired in pilots for gas-free neighbourhoods public and accessible to residents, municipalities and provinces,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34902-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u147	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u148	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that she needs about five minutes to give an appreciation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u149	Can everyone take their place again? The Minister is ready to give her appreciation of all motions filed. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u150	Thank you. A few questions have also been asked to me. I'll answer that in advance. First of all, there was Van der Lee's question as to whether there is room for a brilliant failure. I do think it is wise that in life there is room for brilliant failures. But I think I have to understand his remark mainly as: of course, we learn from things that don't necessarily go right, and there must be room for that in the test gardens. So you do it, you do it as well as you can, you learn from it, and next time you do it even better. So in a transferable sense, that space is there. Then there is Mrs Dik-Faber's question on geothermal energy and its risks. It's very important to have an eye for that. The precise knowledge of this is not with me, but with the Ministry of EZK; Mrs Dik-Faber also referred to the opinion of the SodM. This will of course have to be taken into account in any assessment of proposals. Her last question was, if I understand correctly, about empowerment, about high-rise wind energy. Among other things in Utrecht Overvecht there they are again experimented with. It's an interesting option and an interesting development. It will also be part of the curriculum. That's the answer I owed her. Mr. Chairman. I would now like to pass the motions, starting with the motion in part No. 4 by Mr Ronnes and others I have already said during the debate that the motion also calls for the limit of 500 not to be absolute in the sense of a lower limit. Mr President, I should also like to give Mrs Dik-Faber the opportunity to come back to her earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u151	Just finish this motion for a moment. Mrs Dik-Faber is next in line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u152	Having said that, I actually read in this motion that the proposers say that we must ensure a balanced outcome in the selection process. If, for example, smaller test areas or villages are not sufficiently reflected in the selection, we should take this into account in the future. I'm very good with that motion. There are elements in that have just come forward in the first term. I should therefore like to leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u153	Thank you. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u154	First of all, for the report: it is the PowerNEST. So the power nest, the PowerNEST. My question was specific. The funding is not linked to the building, but to the residents. It is good to hear that projects are being taken into account in Utrecht, but at the same time I believe that much more is possible by linking funding to the building. Would the Minister like to see if there are any possibilities for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u155	In that case, it would be logical to take that with me when I come back to building-related financing, coupled with specifically this form of energy production. So I'd like to say that to Mrs Dik-Faber. Mr. Chairman. That was the first motion. The motion in part No. 5 belongs to Mr Van der Lee. It was also signed by Mrs. Dik-Faber. That motion is on the school roof revolution. As I said earlier, I think that is a very sympathetic initiative. I am very pleased that such initiatives exist in the Netherlands. The Department of BZK also supports the School Roof Revolution. It is, of course, the case that the municipalities ultimately have to decide who they go with. But having said that, I would like to give the motion judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 6 also belongs to Mr Van der Lee. That motion is about public health, at least that is where it touches. In the motion, we are talking about studies on, for example, heat requirements relating to the risk of legionella. That is a subject that really belongs to the departments of VWS and IenW. I would like to discuss this with them before I can really make a judgment. I would like to ask Mr Van der Lee if he wishes to continue his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u156	Mr Van der Lee nods.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u157	At the request of Mr Van der Lee, I propose his motion (34902, No. 6) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u158	Fine, thank you for that. Then there are the five motions of the Party for Animals. I would like to say to Mr Wassenberg that, in fact, all the motions for resolutions are very much in favour of the motions. I say that in advance, because I will be deceiving some of his motions after all. But I've tasted his drive at this point. Sometimes he wants to go a little further than what is possible in the course of these test areas. That applies to the motion in part No. 7. That's why I don't recommend it. The same applies to the motion in part No. 8. It also goes a little further than we have now provided for the criteria at the test gardens. It also applies to the motion in part No. 9 on the insulation standard. That would be a new criterion in relation to what we have asked for. The same applies to the motion in part No. 11. So I would advise against Mr Wassenberg's motions. The motion in part No. 10 sees on gaining experience with climate adaptation and greening of the neighborhood as part of the experimental gardens. In my view, this fits in well with the criteria that have been drawn up. For that reason, I am referring to the motion in part No. 10, please, judge the Chamber. The last motion in part No. 12 was tabled by Mrs Beckerman. That motion is about sharing the knowledge and skill acquired. We discussed this in the first place. My aim is also to make as much knowledge and skills as possible public, so to make them accessible to interested parties, municipalities and others. For this reason, I would like to give "judge chamber" to the motion in part No. 12. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u159	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-13.u160	Voting on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. I thank the Minister. I thank the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I'm closing the meeting.
