ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the General European Reviews. I would like to welcome the Foreign and Finance Ministers to the Upper House. For the Minister of Foreign Affairs, it is his first appearance in this office in the Upper Chamber. I wish him much wisdom. I call Mrs Faber of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Greeks are the worst invention ever made by politicians." You spoke to Jean-Claude Juncker, the President of the European Commission. If the President of the European Commission makes such a statement, that is the prelude to the further dismantling of the nation states and the expropriation of Europe. One of the starting points for the European Union was a free European internal market without frontiers. But the customs union once conjured up is pinching. The Netherlands cannot fully benefit from emerging markets through the common trade policy. Within the European Union, the Netherlands is forced to buy European products in the first place. Everyone would be equal within the European Union. We are talking about a level playing field, which is good for competition and innovation. However, the practice is more uncomfortable. Dutch fishermen are flogged back hard because they invest in their fishing vessels. Pulse trawling had to go to sea because other fishermen, such as the French, are too lame to invest and innovate. Why would they? With political power games, European subsidies and state aid, competition for the French becomes easy. And the Netherlands is the goodest boy in the class and the big net contributor who bakes his own competitors. It's crazy. Meanwhile, the European Defence Fund is being rigged. Objective according to which: innovation and cooperation in the field of the defence industry. However, this fund opens the door to state aid, which in turn undermines the European defence and security procurement that should give smaller countries a greater chance on the European market. In short, in a tricky way, a messy set of rules is being set up to give the French-German axis the chance to advance its own national industry through all kinds of mouse holes, goat paths and so on. This is bad for competition, bad for innovation and opens the door to mediocrity. Mr. Chairman. If we want to grow the economy and be a serious player on the world stage, we just need to be better than the rest. This is a better starting point than to be long-suffering for the economic growth of gross national product, which is caused almost exclusively by an increase in the population through non-Western fortune seekers, a large part of whom is receiving assistance. At the same time, a shrinking population for the citizens themselves is not at all as disastrous as politics is to us. Better to let in a small, well-educated population with labor ethic than to let in a large group of profiting settlers, a large part of which consumes only and gets everything for free. Because the pumping of subsidies to these groups increases the gross national product, but impoverishs the Dutch households. And as a blow to the head, it also increases the payment to Brussels, which also has to cough up the same households. You don't believe Rutte and his cronies are gonna change that, do you? The Netherlands has the European title "greater net contributor of this century" for a reason. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, Mario in Frankfurt is running over-hours of money, draining our savings and pensions. With the plans for a European pension system, we should not be surprised if we also have to persevere until... well, until when? Probably until we drop. Mr. Chairman. As of March 2015, Mario will put 60 billion euros in circulation per month. Since January, people have been trying to rehab at 30 billion a month. The question is when the cold turkey will be on the table of 2.570 billion in September. Who's gonna cut the meat? The Super-Minister of Finance, who so fervently wishes Macron and Juncker? What meat is cut into? You should not be surprised when the bill is partly returned to the Dutch taxpayer's plate. While today's Mario is letting our hard-earned money flow with the greatest ease to problem countries and also providing cheap loans to large companies, the super-minister is supposed to go even further. In addition to being President of the Eurogroup and Vice-President of the European Commission, he was also asked to develop the ESM European Emergency Fund into the European Monetary Fund so that he could provide cheap loans to the whole world. Does this mean Super Mario can stop the African hordes or buy them off? That's a big illusion. My question to the Minister is therefore: is the cabinet going to let it happen that we are going to sponsor Africa and possibly the rest of the world through the European Monetary Fund to be set up, or will it finally make use of the right of veto? Mr. Chairman. After Mutti Merkel has opened the borders wide, Germany alone, Europe's economic engine, has to cough up 21 billion a year for the recent wave of migrants. Under the guise of multiculturalism, essentially the enemy of Western civilisation, the European elite is increasingly removing our freedom and equality. Thus, the second wife with accompanying children of a Syrian asylum seeker was also eligible for family reunification. Well, if there's one sheep over the dam, more will follow. In Sweden they are already completely loose. According to the Swedish newspaper Dagens Juridik, 307 polygamists and 38 polygamous marriages have already been officially registered in that country. But yes, what can you expect if Merkel declares that Islam belongs to Germany and Germany belongs to Islam. Perhaps this was a reference to the Handschar division, a Waffen-SS division that was composed of Muslim volunteers and that has kept gruesome homes in the Balkans. Mr. Chairman. In Macron, Merkel finds her ally. He too sees Islam as part of France and therefore works enthusiastically with the French Muslim Brotherhood. Macron offers handles to finance Islam in France through halaltaks. As a partner in crime, the Muslim Brotherhood calls on all Muslims to vote for Macron. Meanwhile, the French Muslim Brotherhood already captures revenue from halal certification. That way, the Trojan horse can fatten itself. In France, the growing Muslim population is increasingly emerging as a domestic factor to take into account. This also applies to foreign policy. After the Brexit, France, which is also a permanent member of the UN Security Council, increasingly dominates foreign and security policy. This was supported by Federica Mogherini, High Representative for European Foreign and Security Policy. She too points out that Islam belongs to Europe. Like the Foreign Minister Mrs Kaag, she is a fan of the late Yasser Arafat and she too is going to visit the ayatollahs. This while Iranian women fight against this form of women's oppression on the streets. Instead of the solidarity of the Kaag and Mogherini with these women, they prefer to submit to the ayatollahs. In fact, they're dropping these brave Iranian women hard. Or is this government policy? I'd like a response from the Minister. In short, foreign policy is pro-Arabic and further strengthens the relationship between Israel and the European Union, thereby unveiling the hatred of democracy. Mr. Chairman. While law enforcement agencies have to protect our Western standards and values, they too are slowly slipping into the multicultural swamp. An example. At the Berliner Spandau Polizei-Akademie, 30% of the cadets have a migrant background. Teachers ring the bell about how things are going at this academy. Intimidation, lack of professional ethics and condescending behaviour towards women are the order of the day. A teacher says: "Today I taught at the police academy. I've never seen anything like it. The classroom looked like a pigsty. Half the class consists of Arabs and Turks. They were rude. Colleagues said they were threatened, verbally as well as physically. Some students hardly speak German. I'm shocked and I was afraid of them. These are not our colleagues, this is the enemy among us. I've never felt such hatred in classrooms. They threatened me with their fists. You can't imagine." Mr. Chairman. Imagine what it's like for a woman to report abuse to one of these future agents. You must not think that this situation is not known. Both police commanders and the Berlin Senate are aware of these abuses. They not only look away, but also put pressure on teachers who want to share their experiences with people's representatives to keep their mouths shut. It's just common harassment. Mr. Chairman. No method is shy of bringing the multicultural Europe of Juncker and his comrades to full maturity: censorship, indoctrination, social pressure and financial blackmail. Mr. Chairman. Dictatorial regimes were already well aware: whoever has the youth has the future. Thus, politically correct thinking must be forced, starting with education. After being forced to kneel as a child during mandatory mosque visits, a further critical study of the Qur'an is undesirable. For example, for academic skills at Radboud University, you may not quote Quran verses in an essay on the banner of headscarfs. A student who doesn't speak Arabic wouldn't be able to interpret the verses properly. From this you can conclude that only Arabic speakers have the privilege of having a critical discussion about the Qur'an. This removes almost all Westerners from the academic right of freedom of expression. Such practices occur not only in the Netherlands, but also in other Western universities. Mr. Chairman. After school, young people can join the European Solidarity Corps to gain work experience abroad. Once you have been subject to the rules of the European state of salvation, you can be used for a small fee within the European Union in the social field. Of course, the blessings of the European Salvation State are mandatory. Mr. Chairman. Serving at Juncker Youth is a pre and after the service the doors for a job at the government are more easily open. Now it's about the government's doors, but what else is going to follow? How non-binding is this gonna be? How far is participation in Juncker Youth going to be imposed? I'd like a response from the Minister. It is striking that young Turks from outside the European Union are also welcome within the Corps. Corn on the Erdogan mill that is tirelessly engaged in building its fifth column within the European borders; limits he is allowed to guard for 3 billion. But why can't Greece guard those borders? After all, Greece has invested a lot in the army. Spicy detail: Germany has benefited most from this. Preferably 15% of the purchased weaponry is German, followed by 10% coming from France. The arms contracts would even have been a precondition for German and French support for the European financial rescue package for Greece. My question to the Minister is: is that so? Why do we not let the Greeks guard the border with Turkey? A border has two sides, right? I'd like a response from the Minister. And what about the aid to Greece that ends this year? Is that really going to go away? Again, I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Eleanor Roosevelt once said, "No one can hurt you without your permission." In other words, learn to deal with criticism. But socialism likes weak people. That is why the politically correct elite chooses to smother critical sounds, starting with the European Parliament. If a Member of the European Parliament takes a critical view and the President interprets it as racist or slandering, then the President can stop the live stream and remove the controversial parts of the speech from the report. Officials are also sitting in the chair of the parliamentarians. When a parliamentarians submits written questions to the European Commission, officials refuse to pass on the written questions if it contains supposedly offensive language. For example, you may not use the word "plugging boats" in relation to Frontex. Would the Prime Minister be right again? He once said in this Chamber that the European Parliament is not a real parliament. According to the Van Dale, another word for "fake" is "fake." Mr. Chairman. This censorship can just lead to randomness, because what is defamatory, insulting or racist? It is clear from the fact that a large majority of the European Parliament voted in favour of measures to remove Marine Le Pen's immunity after distributing photos of IS via Twitter, while the creed of state enemy numbero uno, Islam, may be tortured from the minaret. A German parliamentarians got a storm of criticism when she responded via Twitter to the information provided by the police in Cologne about the New Year celebration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u3	My screen is down and I cannot press a button to give Mr Backer the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u4	What if I push the button to speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u5	Yes, I can, but I want to stop the clock for Mrs Faber. He's moving on now, and there's nothing I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u6	It's moving on. Let me just say my text, and we shall be as good friends as we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u7	No, I'll check my watch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u8	I have a very short question. Does Mrs Faber still refer to the alleged abuse of Marine Le Pen of European funds, which is now under investigation? You are now exposing all kinds of things, but that is a serious point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u9	I'm not going into that any further. That seems clear to me. Mr President, we can work it out together. I'll see where I left off. A German parliamentarians got a storm of criticism when she responded via Twitter to the information provided by the police in Cologne about the New Year celebration. This information was provided in several languages, including Arabic. She tweeted: "What the hell is going on in our country? Do you think this is how to calm down those barbaric Islamic group-raped men?" Mr. Chairman. On the infamous New Year's Eve in 20125, wasn't the group part of barbarians, Muslims, group rapists, men? That group was part of it. In short, the truth cannot be said because it is not convenient. The tweet was removed. In Germany, it is regulated by law that social media companies have to remove alleged unacceptable expressions from their sites within 24 hours. If they do not, they risk being fined tens of millions. You will understand that few companies are prepared to face this risk for such a huge fine. Conclusion: Commerce determines the degree of freedom of expression without the intervention of the judge. Meanwhile, politically correct clubs are richly provided with subsidies and they will hunt like hungry wolves for supposedly unwanted criticism. Perhaps the cubs of the Juncker Youth will also be put in place. It might look good on your résumé. In short, commercial companies are placed in the court seat; an undesirable development. My question to the Minister is therefore whether the government shares the view that it is undesirable for commercial companies to sit in the court seat. Mr. Chairman. Commercial boys and girls usually have the motto: for what, hear what. Would they get something back for passing on data and censoring? Maybe a nice tax discount. Mr. Chairman. The EU's desire for enlargement has no borders. By expanding your territory, you expand your power. They used to do that with the tank, now with the couch. Under the guise of economic prosperity, citizens are misled by the planned accession to the Union of six Balkan countries in 2025: Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia, Macedonia, Kosovo and Albania. With the accession of these Balkan countries, a powder keg is being imported. It is not for nothing that the European Commission wants to build a safety valve for the Western Balkans through guarantees, so that new Member States cannot block the accession of the neighbouring countries in the Western Balkans. That says something about the relationship between us. This is in stark contrast to the Copenhagen criteria that a European country must meet for accession to the EU. It states, among other things, that the country in question must subscribe to democracy and the rule of law. Is this not contrary to the EU's fundamental principles? Is this not a form of unequal treatment in your Union? I'd like a response from the Minister. To what extent can a country meet these conditions if it is a member of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, the OIC? Can you be a member of the OIC and be a member of the European Union at the same time? I'd like a response from the Minister. I ask this because Albania has been a member of the OIC since 1992, that club that wants to roll out the world caliphate, complete with Sharia. Accession of Albania as the first Islamic country will lower the threshold for European accession of Turkey, a country that you certainly want to keep out of the door. For the record, the PVV is against all forms of enlargement. Mr. Chairman. Eastern European countries, once under Ottoman terror, keep their borders closed. Commissioner Günther Oettinger is trying to break this resistance by increasing European funds on the battlefield. No reforms, no money. Stefan Lorenz-Meyer, an expert in the field of European law and attached to the legal faculty of Augsburg, added a little bit and noted that EU law allowed the European Union to recover its demands. The European Court may then seize a country's foreign assets and execute plots of land or buildings on EU territory. It's scary! Especially in view of the fact that decisions on European rules have been made incredibly complicated and far from transparent. Schimmig is the role of the Heads of Government and so is the role of Prime Minister Rutte. For example, it does not release the way in which the European Council of Ministers votes. This will enable Heads of Government and therefore also Prime Minister Rutte to say in Brussels A and in The Hague B. No parliamentarians can control it. You might ask yourself, why is that? Why is there no openness? Does this government support the European Union's policy of sanctions? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, the expansion of supranational institutions continues. This will put national parliaments and thus citizens further out of play. If you're a bit good in the incestuous network and you're a member of the right political party, you can get a nice job without the inconveniences of popular sovereignty. A win-win situation. In order to keep up the appearance of democracy, the travelling circus between Strasbourg and Brussels may occasionally say yes to the European Parliament's proposals. Quietly they get used to the rich Brussels life and play the lion's share of the parliament. On to a federal Europe, centred on the Franco-German axis, flanked by the Islam that can provide us with our future executioners. A powerful block that will be strengthened by the new treaty that Germany and France are going to conclude in order to strengthen cooperation and, above all, strengthen their joint dominant position, so that they can make even more of a service within Europe. The Tocqueville has already indicated that two things always happen in federations: the most powerful of the united peoples takes over authority and rules over the other peoples or leaves the federal state to its fate, leading to anarchy and powerlessness. Both developments are taking place in the European Union. Mr. Chairman. The quirky British choose eggs for their money. They want their sovereignty back and go for the Brexit. In order not to put the other Member States on exit ideas, everything is being pulled out to make it as difficult as possible for the British. It's a vulgar fighting divorce. Apparently, they're terrified of a domino effect. If you need censorship, indoctrination, social pressure and financial blackmail to keep things together, as the EU, you don't have the best to offer but the worst. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. It is high time we freed ourselves from the European GDR in the process before we become completely entangled in the European trap, so that we go back to trading outside the borders of the European Union, so that we can take full advantage of our investment and innovation, so that our businesses such as our farmers and our fishermen are freed from EU restrictions, so that we can go back to our own money so that we can keep our welfare state so that we can remain in control of our own pensions so that we cross our own borders so that we can preserve our freedom and de-islamize ourselves. And they can also keep the European army, because anyone who says that the European army and the European Public Prosecutor's Office are not being used to enforce political agreements or judicial agreements at EU level, or to control European citizens. For what is the European army needed if NATO has brought us peace in Europe for 75 years? Mr President, wouldn't the tank come after the bank?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u10	I understand that Mrs Faber has come to a conclusion. A remark from her stuck with me for a while when she was talking about the executioners of Islam, if I understood correctly. As a SGP'er, I think it is good and reasonable that there is an eye for the dark side of Islam. At the same time, it struck me, precisely because of the example that Mrs Faber cited earlier on the basis of the Islamic Waffen-SS division. The horrors of that division are well known. At the same time, it was a division in the service of an extremely secular regime. We saw just how a secular regime and the Muslims were beating their hands to oppress other minorities and so on. Also a secular culture, where the PVV feels much more at home, can corrupt, derail and just waltz over minorities. My question is: what can the PVV loosen up positive forces to prevent this kind of thing? Because whether it's secular or Islam, apparently getting power is always sensitive. Then we are simply tempted to walk over minorities or demonize them. So aren't you a little too optimistic about the positive forces within the secular culture you advocate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u11	Of course we are positive about secular culture, because our Western culture is secular. This is also one of the few secular forms of society. When I look at the Middle East and Africa where Islam prevails, and I see that Islam also rises from the Middle East and North Africa to Europe, that is something we absolutely do not want. Erdogan once said that democracy is like a train; that's where I'm going and when I've achieved my goal, I'm getting out. In other words, he wants to abuse democracy to roll out his own agenda. That's what you see now with parties like DENK and NIDA. So we just need to be very focused on that. That is why we say that you should only be able to vote and be elected in the Netherlands if you are only Dutch. Because then at least you won't have that appearance of double loyalty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u12	I know what you mean. Very briefly, I recognise the risks of advancing Islam and I can also sympathize with some of them. I am only concerned that even a secular majority can just derail. That's what we've seen in history. That is why I referred to the example you yourself gave when it came to the Islamic division. But it did unite with such a secular Nazi culture. How do we prevent us from getting on such a path in our secular majority spirit? What positive contribution can we make to this? Is it just stopping the others, or can we put something positive into it ourselves? Then what are we standing for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u13	I think you'll have to start arming yourself against the enemies of democracy. As you know, the PVV sees Islam as a threat to democracy because Islam does not tolerate democracy and does not tolerate anyone else. That's just the biggest threat of our time. That's what we've just seen in the past, in history. The Turks, the Ottoman Empire, have just stood before Vienna. And as you know, we lost Constantinople. The large cathedral in Constantinople/Istanbul has now become the Aya Sofia mosque. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u15	In this context, I would also like to know from Mrs Faber what the PVV's position is with regard to the regimes we now know in Hungary and Poland, where the democratic rule of law is under considerable threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u16	As you know, my party is a strong supporter of President Orbán, among others. I do not know what you are basing it on that Hungarian democracy would be under pressure. Because I think that Orbán is one of the few European leaders who stands for his own culture and protects his own people. Yesterday I saw a video of Hungarians saying: 'We are voting for Orbán, because we feel safe here, we have no problems like London, Paris or Berlin. And that's why we're voting for Orbán."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u17	So I conclude from this that Mrs Faber does not criticise constitutional changes which, for example, mean that the judiciary is no longer independent and a president merely gives himself more power and gags the media. The PVV doesn't think that these kinds of developments are very dramatic?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u18	Well, Mr President, when we look at the judiciary, I started to think about what that is like in the Netherlands. Because you always assume your own position before you can make a judgment about others. So you see that judges in the Netherlands are simply appointed by royal decree by the executive and that the appointment of members of the Supreme Court is preceded by a binding nomination of the House of Representatives. So here's the executive who just appoints the judges. So we should not say that we are more Roman than the Pope, because that is the way it works here. Even in the Council of Europe, the judges before the European Court are appointed by the politicians sitting there. And not just the politicians from Europe. Even countries that are not members of the European Union decide who are members, countries that are on the fringes of Europe. That's just crazy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u19	Finally, Mrs Strik, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u20	Finally, Mr President. If Mrs Faber does not see the differences in checks-and-balances and safeguards in our Constitution for the Separation of Powers and if she does not see what is happening in other regimes in Europe, then it is very difficult to continue this debate. Then, apparently, Mrs Faber does not see that the greatest threats to our democratic rule of law can also be made within Europe, especially with the monogamous culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u21	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make one more comment on this. I wish we had a president like Orbán, who just stands for our own culture and our own people. Because at least we need such a leader and not a leader who secretly does in backrooms A and B says in the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mr Schaap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. We are debating the European Union and its future in this House today. In itself, such a debate is nothing special, because since the creation of the Europe of the Six, there has been a constant debate on how to further develop European cooperation. More and more countries have taken part in this debate, both within and outside the Treaties. Even now, the Union domain is larger than that of the Member States alone. There are potential entrants, but also associates and other third countries align their policies with the European Union and seek influence. The European Union is on the verge of highlighting policy priorities and related budgeting, namely the Multiannual Financial Framework. The Netherlands has already made a clear statement about this; I am going to talk about this. In its contribution to the 2016 reflections, the VVD Group spoke of widespread cynicism about the European Union, even about treaty cooperation in a general sense. Those who listen to the expressions of one of the banners of the new populism, Donald Trump, must have the feeling that this cynicism is still alive and well. Treaties are suspicious, trade wars sound. Nationalism of the most questionable kind. However, cynicism within Europe may decline, despite all kinds of disruptive tendencies. A little bit more about that later too. Madam President. The VVD strongly supports European cooperation, including strengthening the treaty community. These are more than economics, security and other forms of cooperation. It is also about strengthening the European Union as a community of values, and in particular the values underlying the democratic rule of law. There is also something to be said about this. Madam President. It is a bit daily jargon, due to the European Union as a threat to our national sovereignty. We have just had an example of this. In circles of populists, including those in central Europe, comparisons are often made with the former Soviet Union. A fact-free equation. In the Soviet Union, the sovereignty of those involved was not in their own country, but in Moscow. There too, it was not in the hands of the people at all, but of a party hierarchy that did not allow itself to be controlled and did not have to answer to democratically elected representation. In the European Union, however, Member States have not granted sovereignty to a supranational state power. Treaties have been concluded between sovereign states. In doing so, responsibilities and powers have been delegated to European institutions which are under control in many ways. Everything that these institutions bring out is done on the basis of mandate by the Member States and within transparent procedures. This system has brought great benefits to Europe. And this system may be further strengthened by the VVD, albeit on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity and while maintaining the current principle of sovereignty. The European Union must not become a superstate, nor should it become a normal state. After all, this would introduce a dual system of sovereignty, which would inevitably be crippling, not only in the legal and constitutional sense, but also mentally. The allocation of powers under public law must remain unambiguous and indivisible. But within the framework I have mentioned, the European institutions should be strengthened and given more room for manoeuvre. This gives Europe a strong position in global geopolitical violence, and also within Europe itself. The crisis that has arisen following the attack with nerve gas in the United Kingdom demonstrates the need for close cooperation. This strengthening also applies to the financial frameworks, but I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u24	I find it an interesting point that Mr Schaap raises about the search for the borders of, say, Europe to which sovereignty has been delegated, and when it is now becoming a state. You don't want the latter, but could you say something more about when an entity becomes a state? Is that formal when it is recognised as such? Or is it also content, where you say: yes, this is clear, then it really becomes a state, we do not want it, and here is simply delegation of sovereignty to European institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u25	Yes, that is exactly the principle of delegation or mandating, and that is what you can use for it, so sovereignty remains where it was and contracts are given. Simply commissioned by, in this case, individual sovereign states themselves. So you go a step further when you give Brussels, let us say, autonomous powers the right to come up with initiatives and impose them on the Member States, as we can ordain provinces, municipalities and water boards of everything here with our legislative powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u26	Thank you for that. I agree with the second point, at least with the wording you use to point out the problem. At the first we delegate that you also started with in your initial contribution so do sovereignty?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u27	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u28	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u29	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u30	You'd better read that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u31	A sovereign state delegates tasks and associated powers to, in this case, Brussels institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u32	Should I read that in the Acts later? Anyway, if you didn't mean to, that's important too, because I don't want to catch you with your words. But the delegation model, also in the legal sense, isn't it a transfer of authority? Where you go beyond mandating. In that case, then, at the time that sovereignty and competence has been delegated, is a piece of sovereignty surrendered? I think this is so important because there is often a lot of tension about the transfer of sovereignty when we are doing nothing but that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u33	Transfer of sovereignty means giving out the initiative. Contracts shall be awarded in the European Union and shall be carried out. This includes delegated powers. Any assignment given away to Brussels institutions can also be revoked on the basis of the sovereignty of the Member States. There are procedures and rules for that. Sometimes it is decided by majority and sometimes by unanimity. Anyway, you know these procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u34	It's through the chairman, Mr. Schaap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u35	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u36	Mr. Postema finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u37	My final point. In a model of delegation, we really speak of a power or a set of powers transferred. As soon as this happens, it's over. Then that authority remains where it is, unless you want to withdraw it very radically, as in the Brexit negotiations. I note that since the creation of the European Community and then the European Union, we have transferred a great deal of powers to European institutions through a delegation model for good reasons. That was literally your line, too. My point is that we should therefore be more calm about the fact that we have transferred our sovereignty to a far greater extent on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u38	I fully agree with the first part of Mr Postema's speech: delegation of powers on the basis of a preserved sovereignty. But the fact that Mr Postema's transfer is also called sovereignty is not true. There is no dual system of sovereignty in Europe, but a single system, which lies with the national states. The VVD believes that this should remain so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u39	I try to follow Mr Schaap's speech very carefully, but I do not know if I have understood it quite correctly, partly in view of what Mr Postema has just said. You say that the comparison with the Soviet Union is flawed, and I agree with that. It's not a superstate in that sense. It is true, however, that the European Union has supranational qualities. There is European law that goes beyond national law and has direct effect. You say that powers are delegated and can be revoked at any moment. Treaties regulate everything that actually restricts the autonomy of Member States. Look at the Maastricht Treaty on Monetary Union. There are rules that Member States have to abide by. Those rules are not even contained in directives but are included in the Treaties as a kind of quasi-economic constitution. If you say that these treaties can be revoked at any time by sovereign states, then I say that this can only be done if you make use of the possibility of withdrawal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u40	On the basis of treaties, agreements are made at Brussels level, let me put it this way. The Convention can be amended at any time if sufficient Member States so wish. That can be negotiated. Those negotiations are conducted by States which have entered into these treaties but have remained sovereign. So you do not give away your sovereignty by treaty, but you give away orders with the corresponding powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u41	The Treaty can only be amended on the basis of unanimity. As long as we are in the European Union, there are a number of agreements that we have to abide by. Those agreements must be in treaties. Directives are then adopted on the basis of qualified majority treaties. That certainly limits sovereignty. The SP Group is also in favour of renegotiating treaties and a new treaty in which we look again at the powers. As long as that does not happen, there will be a transfer of powers to Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u42	I'm gonna try one more time. Sovereign states are entering into a treaty. That Convention lays down procedures. All kinds of rules are being drawn up on how these sovereign states behave in Brussels. Those tasks given to the Brussels institutions in this case may lead to regulations or directives. There are procedures for that again. It is clear how to reach agreement. On this basis, autonomy, the nomos, is restricted. It is brought within the framework of what has been entered into there under treaty law. Sovereignty will not be lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u43	Very briefly, Mr. Van Apeldoorn, and don't ask the same question again, because it has now been answered. Maybe not to your satisfaction, but he has been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I only note that Mr Schaap's reasoning is that sovereign states have decided in sovereignty to give up their sovereignty, but can ultimately withdraw it. For example, we have monetary sovereignty. I shall come back to that later in my speech. I have another question. You said earlier in your speech that there are transparent procedures. Is the decision-making in the European Union sufficiently transparent and complies with its own rules on transparency?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u45	The procedures are completely transparent. It goes without saying that there are meetings in rooms. That seems to me to be very necessary for a well-oiled consultation from time to time. This is also happening at national level and also in provinces. This does not affect transparency, because the result will come out automatically. That can be decided again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u46	I'd like to back up my colleague Schaap. We have had this debate before, which also raised the question of what is now the somewhat diffuse concept of sovereignty. What I have learned from previous debates on this is that the expression was used that sovereignty is pooled. That means that sovereignty is shared. The Member States put their sovereignty together in order to do something together. That supports your view. I am glad that you are expressing this so explicitly here. In any case, it is also our view. We appreciate that a national Member State such as the Netherlands has that sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u47	I was a little surprised at Mr Schaap's rather nonchalant answer to the question of transparency. He said that, of course, we have to decide occasionally in the back rooms and then we will see what comes out of it. We are talking about legislative procedures. Once the Member States are out, the countries are bound by that legislation. We can only approve the implementing legislation. Isn't it another story? Imagine comparing it with Dutch procedures where precisely that transparency is considered important. Would it not be healthy, also for the quality of legislation and the support that can be given to it and influence the political choices made in the legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u48	It lays down in laws and rules exactly what should be discussed in public and decide what you can prepare in private. There is no organization that does not occasionally seek the decision to prepare something. The moment you take further steps, the transparent regulation comes back into view and you know what needs to be discussed and decided in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u49	Mr. Schaap says it's all neatly arranged. I would like to draw your attention to the case law of the Court of Justice, which states that it is precisely in the interests of a democratic process that there should be much greater openness in these legislative procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u50	If the regulation is mandatory and deviates from it, then it seems quite logical that there is a body calling you to order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u51	It is good to note that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is open to compliance with European laws on transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u52	We are quite legalistic as VVD, so GroenLinks doesn't have to worry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u53	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, you're in the starting position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u54	I was also greatly surprised by what Mr Schaap just said about transparency. I shall continue with Mr Strik's question. I assume that Mr Schaap is familiar with the report Opening closed doors written by the House of Representatives and presented to the European Council through COSAC. That report is about greater transparency in European decision-making and was issued on behalf of the European Affairs Committees of the Second and First Chambers. It makes it very clear that the European Council is failing on the basis of its own transparency regulation, for example when it comes to releasing documents. This concerns the so-called limité documents. This hampers the control function of national parliaments and makes it more difficult for citizens to participate in the public space that Europe should actually be, but is not, partly because of the lack of transparency in decision-making. Does Mr Schaap think there is a problem there? Or does he say that it is all well and good and that the procedures are transparent? That's what I'd like to be clear about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u55	I myself was an enthusiastic member of a working group which prepared a report on this subject, which the House of Representatives subsequently approved, which states that more openness is needed from Brussels, especially at a very early stage, in order to inform parliaments about what is being prepared there. In that sense, therefore, more transparency is only welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u56	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u57	I note that we agree with each other. I am glad to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u58	It's gonna be a beautiful day! Madam President, first of all I would like to say something about the disruptive tendencies that I mentioned, both manifest and creeping. A deterrent example of manifest disruption offers the Brexit process in which the United Kingdom has deposited itself and the EU. This process proves what kind of havoc is caused by lightly dealing with referendums. Here we see an absurdistic attempt to reduce extremely complex issues to a simplistic yes or no, and it must then be noted that the result results in a totally divided country, in this case the United Kingdom. A normal decision-making process on something like this requires years of preparation, with so much willingness to compromise that the result covers a large majority. In the United Kingdom, virtually no one understands what the ultimate no means, not even the negotiators. And that is again vengeful in the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u59	I have a question for Mr. Schaap about the referendum. Mr Schaap says that a question is reduced to a simplistic yes or no, but are we working simplistically in this Chamber? We can only say yes or no to a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u60	I think this is something really weird. We are happy to debate everything that is left with legislative proposals here. We can take each other's size and find everything we need. Then we even have the opportunity to send back a law for improvement. In short, a simplistic yes or no is not the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u61	So Mr. Schaap wants to say that we are standing above the social debate and that we are better than the social debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u62	We are no better than the social debate. We are here on a different basis, namely as representatives of the people, in order to decide on legislation. Society doesn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u63	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u64	As a representative of the people, you have to represent your constituents. It's time for the VVD to do that for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u65	Madam President, this is an extremely strange point. As representatives of the people, we represent the entire population, by whomever we are elected. The mere representation of your constituents here is to assume your responsibility with burden, and that is precisely what we have renounced in our oath or promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u66	Proceed, Mr. Sheep.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u67	I was talking about the follow-up to the United Kingdom: nothing but uncertainty and division with a black hole as a front country. And all this to regain a national sovereignty, I'm sorry to bring it up again, which was never out of hand. This disrupts political and administrative relations with current European partners, disrupts economic relations, cooperation in scientific research and whatnot. Sad is also the disruption that this process causes in the United Kingdom itself. This is going to seriously disrupt the cohesion of British society, with a threat of instability on the part of Northern Ireland as a tragic example. Propagandists should be aware of the alleged national sovereignty and identity within as close a range as possible. Watch how happy the British become of their regained sovereignty. Quite rightly, the European Union has started the negotiation process with a very tough attitude. It should be taken into account that the European Union and its Member States themselves do not come out of this battle without harm.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u68	Now Mr Schaap challenges me. How can the British ever regain their sovereignty when they never gave it up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u69	It was a cynical or perhaps ironic remark. They never gave up their sovereignty. So what they're about to regain is the termination of a treaty and nothing else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u70	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u71	It is staggering the incompetence and unfocusedness with which the United Kingdom operates in this process. We must therefore be afraid of a hard Brexit, a radical exit from the internal market and the customs union. Given the trade relations between the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, this could cause serious damage to our country. The VVD Group can imagine that this would tempt the cabinet to pursue a "as soft as possible Brexit," as our Finance Minister put it in the Financial Times. So the economy before politics, the national position before uncontested European integration. I would like to hear from the ministers the position of the Netherlands in this process, and I would like this to be made clear. After all, a negotiation aimed at maintaining the appetites in addition to reducing the burden could mislead other sceptical Member States, namely to negotiate their own benefits at the expense of the text and the spirit of the European Treaty. This leads to internal disintegration of the EU. And that would only cause substantial damage to an open economy like the Dutch. I would like to hear a discussion from the ministers on this fundamental issue. Then another risk of disruption, now a little more sneaking and from the inside out. I am referring here to developments in Central Europe in particular, in countries such as Poland and Hungary. In both countries, populist regimes have come to power democratically and have shown little respect for the European Union's values and, in particular, its constitutional values. The Iron Curtain may have disappeared and these countries may have been included in the family of democratic constitutional states, but the interiorization of additional values and their institutionalisation in their own country is more difficult than many initially thought or hoped. The European Commission, in agreement with the Member States concerned, has opted for a firm use of legal instruments to put pressure on and rethink these countries. The VVD Group fully supports this. However, I would like to make a comment on the complicated situation. The Central European countries have all suffered severely under communism. As a political and socio-economic system, communism may have completely failed and ideology may have been refuted and disappeared, but at one point communism has proved to have been extremely successful, namely in changing man. It's as if it's genetically modified the human being. The gay Sovietian doesn't just disappear. In addition, a large part of the reforms there have been carried out under the neoliberal flag. This has prevented the interiorization and institutionalisation of constitutional and democratic values. After all, neoliberalism trivializes the value of state institutions. This has not only led to the old nomenklatura being able to seize its chances again, in secret and openly. This has also led to the mind of corrupting and mental lethargy not disappearing. Too little consideration has been given to the persistence of this spirit. The new populism even likes to join this spirit. The post-communist world therefore has a long way to go, longer than expected. The inevitable tough approach must take due account of this unfinished history. My question to the Minister is how he stands on this issue. What support does the European Commission receive from us and how does the Netherlands itself act, bilaterally? How does the Cabinet intend to respond to the instrument of conditionality, where countries are only eligible for EU funds if all kinds of conditions are met? What are the priority conditions and how hard should this be played out? My advice would be to invest a lot in the emerging generations there and therefore to give the young people the future. This is not only a political issue, but also a social-cultural one. Madam President. What already applies to accession countries also applies to candidate countries. I am particularly looking at the Western Balkans: the former Yugoslavia and Albania. Here we must not repeat the error of the accession of Romania and Bulgaria, which is too fast, leaning too much on good intentions and optimistic expectations. Would it not be better to work on the basis of agreements made, to bind the countries heavily and then with the word 'accession' as an eye-catching perspective? So take your time, but bind them, also in a mental and political sense. So consider them a valued part of the European family. We must also commit these countries to us as much as possible in a geopolitical perspective. Russia, China, Turkey and the countries of the Middle East are trying to get grounded in this region, and this is certainly not in an open, competitive atmosphere. It must be avoided that drivers and people will feel rejected by Europe, drift away and then commit themselves to these powers. The accusation that these members suffer from corruption and crime is not an argument for putting them at a distance cynically and constantly confronting them with reproaches.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u72	I very much agree with what Mr Schaap said. I am also pleased that he is calling on the government to do so. But perhaps Mr Schaap can make it a little more concrete how he sees it. In fact, he says that the EU should do more towards the Western Balkans than it is doing now. The EU should commit them more. What strategy could be effective here, what is Mr Schaap thinking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u73	Geopolitics is a direct and rather important, given the disruptive tendencies that are going on there, heavily influenced by dark forces, so to speak. As far as accession is concerned, all kinds of protocols have been agreed and agreements have been made. They need to be implemented. That's gonna have to be heavily supervised. It must only be seen as an abyss if it is clear that it is also interiorized in these countries. As a reward for this, the element of formal accession comes into the picture, not before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u74	I understand from this that Mr Schaap says: "Do more intensively from the EU's point of view in these developments. Not only: see if they can make it and then possibly test it against accession criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u75	Yes. It must come from the sphere of reproach. These countries too have had a miserable history. That was not only communism, but also a hard form of it. One could even say that in these countries, as in other places in Central and Eastern Europe, the First World War is never over and that the whole system of self-determination based on international law is still given a heavy ethnic dimension and that we have experienced the Balkan war, which can lead to the most terrible excesses. By keeping them at bay, it really doesn't get any better. So my plea is: guide this much more powerfully, based on the European values on which the European Union is also based. In any case, corruption and crime thrive better at a distance than within our sphere of influence. Will the Minister explain again how he assesses the geopolitical situation and how the Netherlands is going to behave in the Balkans region? Does the Minister see the possibility of using procedures for this region that link accession with integration into our community of values? Madam President. Some comments on EMU. The VVD Group is in favour of a tough policy for stabilising the euro. This includes not only budgetary rules, but also balanced policies and their enforcement. No successful budgetary rules without a balanced economy and a sound economy. This cannot happen without reform. The meaning of the latter has already been demonstrated by the Netherlands and the Federal Republic of Germany. Germany may now be a driving force for the European economy, but this country too has already been declared ill. Every once in a while, therefore, there must be pain in order to regain vitality. Looking back, therefore, it is remarkable how many benefits countries such as Ireland, Portugal and Spain, and even Greece seem to have benefited from tough intervention in the public and socio-economic domain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u76	Mr. Schaap is here arguing for enforcement rules on budgetary rules. But what budgetary rules have been maintained in the European Union over the last five years? Can you give us some examples?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u77	Some countries have suffered greatly, for example Greece. Major countries such as France have also been called upon to do so, and we should be pleased that enforcement under Macron is finally going to succeed. Spain and Portugal have been dealt with harshly. So there's been a lot of gigs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u78	France is always an interesting one, because they always break all the rules, including this one. 'Cause there's never been a sanction in France. How's Macron gonna change all that? How is he going to continue these new developments? He doesn't even have a majority in the Senate, so he can reform whatever he wants, but he just never gets it through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u79	I don't have the competence to tell you what Macron is going to do. However, the fact that the budget deficit is now finally within EMU rules is a cause for hope. I am confident that he will deal seriously with the other rules that EMU brings with him. It is right that the Netherlands has shown itself to be tough in this crisis that is just behind us. As I have just said, it is not inconceivable that France, under Macron, will finally pursue an effective reform path. There remains a persistent problem area, a country that is getting pretty much all the trouble and is also going into populist sailing waters: Italy. Of course, the consequences of the election result must be awaited. But how will the Netherlands behave? We are dealing here with a large economy and with industrial production even the second great power in the European Union. Tackling smaller Member States is easy, but how is a large Member State brought to order? Angelic patience, as with France, does not seem the right way. I would also like to ask the Ministers for Foreign Affairs to consider this. Madam President. Then there is a big, even topical issue: the decision-making process around the fiscal regime to be set up from 2021, the implementation of the Multiannual Financial Framework. In the meantime, the preliminary stage of discussion and the formation of European political groups seems to have taken place loudly, especially with regard to the contribution of the Netherlands. The VVD Group questions the latter and welcomes an exchange of views with the Minister. First, a preliminary consideration. There is a remarkable atmosphere in our country with regard to the EU budget: if this were to be a well as large as a bottomless well. The Telegraph speaks, within a eurosceptic creed, even of a megalomaniac budget. And, to be honest, the Dutch Government, at least in a verbal sense, seems to express itself somewhat in such terms: the less money goes to Brussels, the better. This, while the size of this budget, around EUR 150 billion, is not shocking. Something is threatening, and now my critical undertone appears, as an ancient grocery mentality: focusing the discussion on "what do I pay" against "what do I get back". As if the profit and loss account consists of no more than a sum based on accounting. Of course, we do not have to pay more than is just. Nevertheless, the VVD Group wonders whether the Dutch contribution to the debate in the European Union should also be made from a different perspective and with a slightly modified commitment. I would also like to hear the Minister on these points. I'm gonna get on with this. First of all, the large profits made by a Member State like the Netherlands from Europe do not primarily go through the revenue and expenditure side of the budget. The great profits flow through the great free market space that the European Union offers to our country, the country with perhaps the most open economy in Europe. What Brussels is doing, and what is included in the European decisions and the corresponding budget, translates into this open space. That profit must be taken into account in the figures, and this is precisely what should dominate our efforts in the discussions. Next, and now I am presenting the principle of subsidiarity, the European Union can carry out a number of activities and tasks in delegation much better than the individual Member States each for themselves. These include challenges such as climate policy, security, the regulation of migratory flows, including monitoring of the common external borders rather than those of the individual Member States. These include the exploration of scientific research and innovation and cooperation in the field of defence and in the field of peace and security policy, whether under the NATO umbrella or under the NATO umbrella. These tasks not only deserve priority, they also require effective investment. And if investments at EU level prove to be profitable, including for our country, why not detour Dutch money through the European budget? Once again, an open economy such as ours, with relatively large cross-border activities, will soon benefit from greater Brussels capacity in these areas. And we can also benefit from Brussels funds, as in the scientific field? It could now be said that greater scope is welcome for these tasks, but that they must be achieved by cutting back on the big slulops, namely agriculture and the Structural Funds. It is clear that a large number of Member States, whether or not they are right to benefit, will not be included in this reasoning. And then back to the Netherlands: why not use these funds in such a way that the Netherlands can take advantage of them again? Agricultural development of traditionally working Member States, such as Romania and Poland, offers opportunities not only to these countries, but also to a supplying agricultural superpower like the Netherlands. I am thinking of our seeds and seedlings, but also of our advanced technology. The adjustment of such expenditure should be carried out in a subtle way, from the point of view of mutual interest. I look forward to hearing the Minister's views on this matter. Madam President. Then there is the way in which the Netherlands is taking part in this debate, the debate I was just talking about. Of course, it is perfectly clear, but does it help to fight a battle that may not only be lost as a battle, but also as a war? The position paper in which we respond to the loss of the British budget section and already put in black-and-white not to accept a higher gross contribution seems clear. But is this effective? We are on the eve of a year of European talk sessions. Isn't it better to bring this more into a private circle and bring in a somewhat more expressed Dutch interest? What I am trying to say here is a gentle urge, but I would like to hear the views of both ministers on this matter. Madam President. European integration is a process which has been hesitant. It began with a limited number of participants, focused on the coal and steel market only, at a time when this continent was extremely vulnerable in many respects. As an ever larger support group and in an expanding range, integration has apparently developed unstoppably. All the procedures put in place for this purpose do not alter the fact that integration has mainly taken place along a line of dialogue: talking on and on, holding crises, adaptive governing the unexpected, ultimately decision-making process, and then going back to the next battle. This open process with equally open ends has brought peace, security and prosperity to Europe. The value of this cannot be overestimated. The adaptive way of working has made an enormous amount of conflict matter manageable. The willingness to work towards compromises has constantly strengthened the decision-making capacity of Europe and its Member States. We must not let cynics take away this achievement, nor by fictions intoxicated romantics. Brexit is such a cynical breach of the EU's great strength. The fact that British voters have been intoxicated by the lies of incompetent leaders is extremely tragic, even for the British themselves. There may also be a lesson in this, a kind of alarmist example of a misguided exchange rate trend. A false "once in a generation" democratic decision can have imaginative consequences, consequences that make it clear how not to do so. I have every confidence that the Dutch Government has the wisdom to be ahead of such mistakes and to join in the process that we have been going through for so many decades now. I would like to await the response of both ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u80	Thank you, Mr. Sheep. I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u81	Mr. Chairman. With the Brexit and after the temporary run-down of the euro crisis, the Heads of Government of the European Union, led by a hyperactive Commission, saw reason to consider the future of the EU over the past year. The SP Group also believes that it is time for clear choices in Europe. When we look at the battlefield of the euro crisis, when we look at the social misery in the countries that have suffered so much under the dictatorship of the troika, when we consider the disastrous austerity policy that has been pursued in this country, also in the name of Europe, when we observe that the distrust and disgust of the EU has grown and the democratic legitimacy of the European project has fallen sharply, it seems to us indeed more than time for a serious reflection process on the future of Europe and for a reflection on fundamental choices. Mr. Chairman. This is all the more necessary when we realise that Europe does not stop at the borders of the EU, and that the great Europe itself is part of a world that is particularly rapidly changing in geopolitical terms. The refugee crisis is now over. Although, not so much for the refugees and migrants themselves, they are stuck in camps in Greece under terrible conditions, not to mention the inhumane conditions in the Libyan detention centres. One can speak of the end of a crisis if last year there were more than 3,000 people, 3,000!, In the Mediterranean Sea, found the drowning death? How does the Minister see this? Is this not a moral failure of the EU? Meanwhile, the conflict in Syria, where the villain Assad still lives, is entering a new phase through the illegal invasion of NATO member Turkey. This recently led to the fall of the Kurdish Afrin. The Foreign Minister has often been asked to condemn this raid for what it is, a gross violation of the UN Charter. Let me ask him what his commitment is to this in a European context. The government keeps saying that there is no point in the Netherlands condemning this raid on its own, but what is the government doing to stop being alone in this? And are we? Chancellor Merkel recently strongly condemned Turkey's actions in Afrin. Can't we hang out here with Germany? I'd like a response from the Minister. The SP Group also finds it striking that, despite the lack of evidence, Europe is there to condemn Russia in the Skripal case and to resort to diplomatic sanctions, while two and a half months after the start of the Turkish aggression war in Afrin, most European countries, including the Netherlands, have still not clearly condemned Turkish violence. The same applies to the killing by Israel of dozens of unarmed demonstrators who fought for their rights from the open-air prison called the Gaza Strip. Can the Minister explain why the Netherlands, with the European Union in one case, is taking action against a country whose debt has not yet been established and is not condemning two countries which are clearly violating international law? I see now that my time has begun to run, Mr. Chairman. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u82	I am a little shocked by the observation made by my honourable colleague Mr Van Apeldoorn when it comes to the conflicts at the border with Israel. Surely it's not true that the SP lets itself be used as Hamas' errand boy? Hamas was desperate for a number of Palestinian deaths to put Israel in the international dock, and you simply step into that frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u83	Mr Van Dijk is now coming up with an interpretation of the facts which I believe to be at least dubious. Peaceful protests have been organized from Gaza. What I've read about it has been a movement from below, a grassroots movement. It has been said that we are going to demonstrate peacefully at the fence that stands here, looking at the country that once belonged to the Palestinians, after 50 years of occupation. It is true that Hamas subsequently made use of these protests and took over some of them, but that is without prejudice to the fact that dozens of unarmed protesters were shot to death, that Israeli soldiers shot sharply at people who, in their opinion, came too close to the fence and in some cases did not come at all close to the fence but simply stood there to demonstrate. People were just shot. That seems to me to be a serious condemnation of violence. At the very least, we should call on Israel and, where possible, force it to carry out an internationally independent investigation into events. But Israel is also refusing to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u84	Mr. Chairman. I am very much in favour of restricting us to the facts. A fact is simply that Israel, a sovereign state, wants to protect its borders from advancing masses fired by Hamas. You've seen the swastikas waving there, haven't you? Is it weird, then, that Israel is indeed trying to protect its borders as concretely as possible in this way? That's a right of every sovereign state, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u85	The fact is that Israel has been pursuing occupation policy for 50 years and is thus violating international law in a gross manner is in breach of several UN resolutions, including Resolution 242. There has been occupation since 1967, there has been illegal settlement policy, there has been talk of killing Palestinians' houses with bulldozers, and there has been severe repression in which thousands of Palestinians have died for decades. Recently, we have seen dozens of Palestinians shot to death. I ask Mr Van Dijk: do you think it is a fact that dozens of Palestinians have been shot and do you think there has been proportional violence? Or do you say: no, something has indeed happened there that deserves further investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u86	Mr. Van Dijk, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u87	Last time, every dead man is one too many. I fully agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn. Imagine, at the same time, that these Palestinians would have been insisting on, let me mention, the Saudi Arabian border, something else you would have experienced. So in that sense, I still have the idea that Israel has actually operated proportionally. It's about the conflict, as you can see. The main problem is that the Palestinians cannot accept, and cannot accept, Israel's right to exist. And that's why peace stays out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u88	The comparison with Saudi Arabia seems to me to be completely flawed. The fact that Saudi Arabia may still be subject to excessive violence does not in any way justify the disproportionate excessive violence on the part of Israel. On your last point, however, I would like to point out that the Palestinians have indeed recognised the existence of Israel, at least a large part of the Palestinians. So when it comes to the obstacles to peace, I think there is more to say than there would be no recognition on the part of the Palestinians. However, that requires an argument that may be too much out of order here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u89	The question is, of course, who is occupying the Gaza Strip? For the Gaza Strip has autonomous administration. Is it not Hamas who terrorizes its own people and not Israel?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u90	The Gaza Strip is indeed no longer formally occupied, or in the military sense it is not an occupied area. This, of course, does not make it an independent Palestinian State, which has been fighting for a very long time. The two-state solution that the EU has supported is still very far away. The Gaza Strip, as I said, is de facto an open-air prison. Israel is actually holding the population there. There's been a blockade. There is no access to all kinds of essential goods. This also makes it very difficult for the government in Gaza to provide the primary necessities of life for people to run a society where it is somewhat good living. That there are also problems with Hamas and with internal divisions between the Palestinians, I would like to admit to Mrs Faber. I'm not gonna say that what Hamas is doing there is all good. I am not going to say that the Palestinians do not also have a problem with their mutual politics. But none of that is the point I've been talking about. What I talked about was that there were tens of thousands of protesters at that fence that demonstrated for their human rights and that Israel then decided to shoot sharp and then says they were Hamas terrorists, while they were unarmed protesters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u91	I'd still like to interrupt. We are talking about general European reflections and, however important and interesting this subject may be, I would like to put a little bit more emphasis on this. Mrs Faber has the opportunity to ask another question, and I would like to give Mr Van Apeldoorn the opportunity to reply briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u92	Mr President, I must say something. Mr. Van Apeldoorn brings up the Gaza Strip. I mean, I didn't bring it up. He's talking about Israel shooting people there. But he'll have to tell the whole story. I am also glad that the SGP will at least come up with a clear story. Of course, it's Hamas that's causing that big mess there. It's Hamas who hasn't held elections for years, because it doesn't come true, because they're just suppressing this population. That two-state solution could have been here a long time ago. They have had the Oslo agreements and the Clinton agreements, the whole pro rata plan. It is even Netanyahu who has offered them a two-state solution, but each time they reject it. And why are they rejecting it? Because they just want to get rid of Israel. So you have to tell the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u93	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I understand the point. If Israel had simply complied with international law and implemented the UN Security Council resolution, such as Resolution 242, then the whole Hamas problem you are pointing out would not have been there, and that two-state solution would have been there long ago. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. We see that the conflict in Syria continues...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u94	But you're sticking to European considerations, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u95	Certainly, Madam President. You will also notice that it is about Europe, because the conflict in Syria also affects Europe. We see that the conflict in Syria is threatening to escalate even further towards an international war, while the chaos in Libya continues less than 300 kilometres from Europe's external borders. There is often talk, also by the Commission and the Council, of a ring of instability around Europe, but without recognizing that Europe itself has contributed to this instability. Does the Minister recognise that Europe itself has played a part in this? For the time being, it seems that the EU is less focused on tackling the causes of instability, but the answer is more in search of the militarisation of the EU. There is now, among other things, a European defence fund, a plan which comes directly from the European arms industry. My group believes that this will not make the Netherlands or Europe any safer. It will, however, make a major contribution to the European defence industry. Is that now a task for Europe, my group wonders. Mr. Chairman. We warned against the threat of militarisation of the EU in the Treaty of Lisbon. That was denied from all sides at the time. But it seems to be becoming a reality. And where does this trial end? Where is the border for this minister? The European Union is a community of values and the core values are those of the democratic rule of law. At least that's how it should be. The European Commission rightly calls on the Polish Government, for example. We can also think of the right-wing radical Orbán who won the elections in Hungary yesterday. The cabinet often does, except for a single speech abroad, through the Prime Minister, as if it were only jobs in Europe; jobs thanks to the internal market. Europe should not be talking about much more than that, as is often the suggestion. But this is the wrong kind of euroscepticism as far as the SP Group is concerned. And not just because the EU, certainly within Economic and Monetary Union, is not a job machine at all. There is not, you do not worry, enough to be sceptical about the EU, but if we stick to the idea that the EU is only there because it provides bread on the shelf, then we will have a very poor Union and lose its right to exist. The EU should not only express its democratic principles by mouth, but also put them into practice, not only in Warsaw or in The Hague but also in Brussels. The invigorating Selmayr affair shows that the European Commission does not always take it as closely as it does when applying the rules of the democratic rule of law as it does when it comes to its own functioning. Does the Minister recognise that this back-room boyfriendism is bad for the credibility of the EU as a whole? Unfortunately, the problem goes beyond the flash designation of Juncker's highly politically active right hand. Selmayr-gate symbolises much that is wrong in Brussels and the EU as a whole when it comes to good and democratic governance. We have also heard the Prime Minister say in his Europe speech that he is against an increasingly political Commission. So are we. The Commission is not a politically elected body. But how does the cabinet look at this Commission, which is almost at the end of its term, and at a President who, with his head of the cabinet, has deliberately turned his attention to a much more political Commission? As far as the Minister is concerned, will a next Commission clearly have to take a step backwards in terms of political profiling and action? Mr. Chairman. The EU should promote the values of democracy and, where possible, bring closer to achieving the ideal of a democratic society. But is that what's gonna happen? Is the EU itself sufficiently democratic? Our answer is no. The EU is therefore in serious deficit by its own standards; in practice it undermines its own democratic values and thereby puts the future of European project at risk. In my group's view, this is at the heart of the problem facing Europe. And while Macron, with Merkel on the back of his tandem, wants to move forward in the highest gear, especially not to let down the EU bike, we are afraid that this will bring Europe back on its feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u96	I would, in fact, like to continue with that argument a little bit. Mr Van Apeldoorn says that the European Union is not democratic enough. How should the EU become more democratic? What kind of development do you rely on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u97	Mr. Chairman. I shall come back to that later in my speech. I will at least argue, but I am not going to do so in detail now, that the EU should become more transparent in its decision-making. So that's step one. Secondly, I believe that the position of Member States should be strengthened. Thirdly, that is not in my speech, I can now say to Mr Schaap, this actually comes back to the earlier discussion that we had in the event of interruption, I think we should look again at the Treaty. You can say that no sovereignty has been transferred, only sovereignty has been shared. We're not going to have that discussion again. That is not the case either. The delegation has only been delegated under sovereignty and that delegation can be revoked again, was your speech. But I think, when we look at the Treaty, that it deals with far too many issues that should not be dealt with at the level of a treaty. So I would say that Europe does not actually have a constitution, because that was then voted against. But we then got the Treaty of Lisbon, which is a quasi-constitution and is actually a quasi-economic constitution. In fact, all sorts of things that concern, for example, economic planning, which concern socio-economic, financial and economic policies, are set out in stone in that Treaty. As a result, it has become an organisation in Europe which, in my view, limits the autonomy in those crucial areas of Member States far too much. And that is also a problem for democracy, from the point of view of national democracy, which is being undermined.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u98	Just before the discussion. We will soon agree that the European Constitution is not a constitution. You can't. Europe would then be a sovereign state. So Europe does not have a constitution and should not get it in that sense. But I listened very carefully. Mr Van Apeldoorn says, if I have understood him correctly, that Europe must become more democratic by giving more democratic powers to the decision-making process to the national parliaments. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u99	I have said that the role of national parliaments can be strengthened, but I have actually argued above all because Mr Schaap says that it is not a constitution, that it is a de facto constitution. The Treaty is a quasi-constitution in which, if you look at European law, all kinds of things are laid down, on the basis of which the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg is also very active. And on the basis of the Treaty, all kinds of matters need to be settled in national Member States, which I say are too much involved in national autonomy, in how we want to manage our own economy, for example, on the basis of national democratic choices, and in the choices we want to make. For example, it concerns the four freedoms of the internal market, which the European Court of Justice also says: if it is contrary to freedoms, then that national regulation must be overstepped, whether it concerns certain parts of the public sector, housing corporations and so on. I would say that the process of European integration has gone too far. So I would like to argue in favour of what can actually be called a de-constitutionalisation of European law. This does not mean that European law is being abolished, but the treaties should really be about the procedures and not about the content of the policy. That is, for example, one step that could be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u100	Finally, Mr Schaap, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u101	Just for a minute. We do not have a European constitution, because it is a treaty. There is an extraordinary difference in principle between a treaty and a constitution. So speaking, I think we can agree on that. However, I do feel that the democratisation of Europe means bringing back less treaty text and more autonomy to the individual Member States, that is the preparation of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u102	Mr Schaap is right in a number of areas where we would indeed advocate it. So European cooperation could also be stepped up in other areas. But when it comes to how we deal with our own public sector, how we deal with public services, for example, the SP Group says that this should really be up to the Member States. There lies the primacy of democratic legitimacy. Then you cannot say: in the name of the free market, in the name of the freedom of goods and capital, that is what Brussels is about. Because Brussels can say that it needs to be liberalised. The EU has been talking about neoliberalism in certain Eastern European countries over the past ten or fifteen years, but this also applies to Brussels, which has become a liberalisation machine, a deregulation machine that we say has intervened in Member States and in the economic organisation of the Member States in a way that undermines democratic legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u103	Sometimes it is useful to wait for an interruption, because Mr Van Apeldoorn stops at exactly where I want to start. That is why it is so difficult for me to see how the SP vision will tackle inequalities in Europe. There are enormous inequalities, within countries, within regions. And within countries that don't solve that themselves. That is what the Structural Funds are for. You are talking about the liberal approach. I have had this discussion with your predecessor and with you often too, and it is true that in the strict budgetary discipline and the instruments used to do so, little, perhaps too little, has been devoted to the social pillar. My question to Mr Van Apeldoorn is this. If you want to develop that, then now there is the Gothenburg Declaration for that. Does the SP see opportunities for achieving nationally transcending effects that will eventually reach the people with the smallest stock exchange? Or should all of that remain national?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u104	I say to Mr Backer that the SP is in favour of the social charter and that the EU is in favour of it when it comes to developing the social pillar. I believe that the social pillar should not mean that we should then create even more Brussels bureaucracy in which Brussels can also interfere with, for example, our welfare state. I would like to add that it is a question, and this could also be done in a new treaty, of equalizing social rights and not subjecting them to the rights of business, to capital rights and to the rights of the free market. That's what we're here for. For example, the Posting of Workers Directive is a step in the right direction. So we are indeed in favour of social measures at European level, but not of measures that further limit the sovereignty of Member States. I think that in the end the problem can be solved in a different way. When it comes to the enormous inequality and divergence in Europe, it has always been said that the euro is going to bring the solution. But the opposite has been the case. So we see that the process of European integration, as it has happened over the last 20 years, has only increased inequality and divergence in Europe. Then the Structural Funds will also be totally inadequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u105	In conclusion, because this is a very fundamental debate, which we cannot just interrupt, I see an inconsistency in the aim of achieving that social equality and the rise in prosperity of those who are lagging behind in the current state of affairs while at the same time maintaining a national solution. You start immediately on the point that it should not be bureaucratic again in Brussels, but that is, of course, the famous speech about Brussels. It is important that this is done in an efficient way, but that ultimately objectives are achieved. You have not yet convinced me that you have resolved that inconsistency. Mr President, this was a comment and not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u106	Clear. Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u107	Mr. Chairman. Maybe I can put a question to it? I go a long way along with the reasoning of the SP Group. But that is precisely why we are saying: you must not only organise this financial dependency, you must also harmonise it more in the field of social policy, so that it does move towards more employment, social inclusion and so on. So just strengthen instead of retreat. How does the SP Group view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u108	There is a difference in vision between the GroenLinks Group and the SP Group. GroenLinks first wants to remove all trade barriers and economic barriers by creating a free economic space, a free space for capital. There is negative integration. This then has certain negative social effects. It might increase inequality. It ensures labour market competition and other forms of competition. There may be social dumping. It may affect workers' rights. And how's that gonna be fixed? By also lifting that to the European level. Perhaps the end is a European welfare state or a European social model where all this is regulated at European level as a kind of counterweight to the European internal market. Part of the left and part of the European social democracy has been advocating this for a very long time. We note (A) that this has never come off the ground and (B) that this is not the way. I think this is putting the horse behind the cart. We must first look at where the market has been liberalised too much, where we have gone too far on the road of negative integration and where too many of these barriers have been shattered. Can we perhaps not partially restrict these four economic freedoms and thus restore some of the autonomy of the Member States? At the same time, we are in favour of a Posting of Workers Directive, a Social Charter and an Appendix to the Treaty with a green protocol which the European trade union movement has also advocated. I think that's a good idea. It is stated that social rights should not be subordinated to economic rights. You can do something in the social field in Europe, but we must also recognise that in a number of areas the process of European integration has gone too far as an economic integration process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u109	I understand your vision, but for me it sounds too much like an inevitable development, as a kind of lawfulness that it goes down the road of integration that way. We must recognise that all this depends on political choices. We can conclude that we are integrating, but with other political choices so that you can find more balance in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u110	I would nevertheless like these political choices to be made primarily at Member State level. It cannot be that, when a majority of Europe is in favour of a particular policy, when a majority of our population does not see it, we are in favour of it. I will not go along with it if it is said that the solution is to make Europe a democracy. Ultimately, the primacy of democratic legitimacy lies with the Member States and must remain so. Mr. Chairman. There are now a large number of Commission proposals: from the completion of the banking union, the capital market union and the deepening of economic and monetary union to the creation of a defence union. The Prime Minister has repeatedly made it clear that an ever closer union should not or should not be a goal. But with this whole set of proposed unions, we seem to be moving towards that federal goal again. So how does the government view this? Isn't there a contradiction in this? There seems to be no policy area to think of, or a new union coming out of the Commission's mouth, or Europeanisation as a panacea. Now this cabinet has not fully embraced all the committee proposals, but the government is indeed a stated supporter of all these unions. So an ever closer union shouldn't be the goal, but in practice we will continue. How about that, so I ask both ministers? In particular, this seems to unfold the fifth scenario of the Commission's White Paper on the future of Europe; the scenario of doing much more together. The Commission also recognises that the major disadvantage of this scenario is that.... and I quote.... "groups who feel that the EU lacks legitimacy or that the EU has drawn too much power from national authorities can feel that they are not being listened to." According to the members of the SP Group, this has been at the heart of Europe's problem for much longer, let alone if we now opt for even more power for Brussels. Should the whole reflection process not therefore have to take account of this and discuss where the EU might have to take a step backwards in some respects rather than choose the flight forward? Shouldn't we pull out a lot more to try to close the EU's democratic gap once and for all? I would like a response from both ministers. The so-called democratic deficit of Europe has been under discussion for years. It's just a bar that doesn't get a lot of work done. The decision-making process in the EU has been too far removed from the eyes of citizens, but also from national parliaments. In the autumn, the European Affairs Committees of the Second and First Chambers presented the paper Opening up Closed Doors to the fellow MEPs of COSAC and then sent it to the President of the European Council, Tusk, with the support of no less than 26 EU Parliaments. I referred to this during an interruption. It deeply disappoints the SP Group that no response has yet been heard from the Council. People are talking about strengthening the role of parliaments and the need for political dialogue, but if 26 EU parliaments support an initiative that calls for transparency, which is a necessary condition for the exercise of our supervisory role as parliaments, then it is deafeningly silent. How's the cabinet looking at this? Has it been argued by the government in the Council that it should at least come up with an answer? In a cabinet response to the paper, the government claims to continue its efforts in this area. We are pleased to hear that. But we would like to hear from the Minister what the current state of affairs is. What have these efforts so far, even at recent summits, been made up of and what have they achieved? What efforts can we expect in this area when? Could the Minister undertake to regularly inform this Chamber of the efforts he has made on the transparency agenda which he so proactively claims to embrace? The Minister of Finance would like a specific response to the formalisation of the Eurogroup and the Eurogroup proposed in the paper, and at least to the application of the Transparency Regulation to this body. In other respects too, national parliaments are too often out of play. For years we have been talking about strengthening the relatively weak position of national parliaments in the institutional architecture. But what happens now in concrete terms? National parliaments have an essential role to play in ensuring the democratic character of European decision-making, because the primacy of democratic legitimacy lies primarily at the national level. The European Parliament, although it can play a useful additional role, has insufficient legitimacy to close the democratic gap in this respect. It will ultimately have to come from the national parliaments. What is their role in today's European decision-making? The right of initiative lies with the unelected Commission. It then goes back and forth between the EP and the Council, where, as has been said, the legislative role of the Council is difficult to control by national parliaments because of the lack of transparency. European decision-making is so often a black box. National parliaments can engage in so-called political dialogue with the Commission and/or their own government. In other words, we are allowed to ask questions and receive a fair answer, although that answer sometimes takes a long time. However, in the case of directives at the end of the journey, national parliaments have the last word on transposition into national law. So who is to express our total surprise that this government is sending us a letter in which, with reference to the alleged primacy of the European legislator, our role as a critical questioner in the preliminary stage could be reduced? The letter also misrepresented the idea that the delay in implementing European legislation is due to the First Chamber. And as a solution, it was proposed to reduce the level of regulation by including a broad delegation basis. Mr President, in your response on behalf of the entire First Chamber to the relevant letter from the Minister for Legal Protection, you rightly argued that it violates the principle that directives are left to the national legislator, and that they exclude the States-General. The very late arrival last weekend in the government's response seems to weaken the original letter on the policy of fines, but does not reassure us at all. The answer deserves further consideration and I can well imagine that we as a Chamber as a whole will come back to it, but for the time being our response is that the letter is vague. It is argued that in the case of future amendments, where "the primacy of the national legislator is not or hardly at issue," these elements could be better laid down in delegated legislation. But we remain unclear as to the exact nature of the elements involved. The question remains as to why, when implementing European directives, the basis for delegation to lower legislation should be wider than that of regular laws. I would like a reply and further clarification from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. There has also been a democratic deficit in the EU due to the problem of powers that they do not belong to; we have just had a discussion about them. I am talking in particular about the democratic black hole of EMU. It was and remains a historic mistake to give up our monetary sovereignty and share one currency with eighteen other, economically and culturally very different countries. This has not only given us the macro-economic instruments of monetary policy and exchange rate policy at once, but has also undermined the autonomy of the entire financial and economic and even socio-economic policy. In particular, budgetary policy and the role played by Parliament are under strong pressure, if not formal budgetary law, or at least substantive budgetary law. Unfortunately, this is embedded in today's monetary union: left or right in a broad area, I am sorry, Mr Schaap. That has already begun with the Maastricht Treaty itself and the subsequent stability pact. But in response to the euro crisis, the screws have been tightened even further. Not only in Greece, where Wolfgang Schauible made it very clear at the height of the euro crisis that, in his words, 'we cannot allow elections to change economic policy'............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Apart from the fact that these strengthened rules are stupid and short-sighted from a macroeconomic point of view, they are above all a direct attack on national democracy. And the euro area's governance from the euro group is already completely shunned from regular democratic control and legitimacy. I would like to hear from the Minister of Finance how he looks at the democratic legitimacy of EMU and how to improve it. The Commission and Council documents do pay lip service to this, but concrete proposals are not made. What is more, we fear that the deepening of EMU, which is at least high on the agenda for the Commission and the French President, will result in a further deepening of the gap of democratic legitimacy. I'd like a response from the Minister. In the meantime, we also have a banking union and the Commission's proposals for the capital market union are following each other at a rapid pace. The SP Group has previously noted with regret that the lessons of the financial crisis seem to have been forgotten when these unions roll out. Now there is another Commission proposal which, among other things, leads to the bonus ceiling for investment firms no longer being applied, with all the perverse incentives. In our opinion, the House of Representatives has rightly made a reservation of treatment on this proposal. In the case of the Banking Union, there was a proposal on the SP Group that could really have dealt with the causes of the financial crisis, even if it did not go far enough as far as we are concerned. This was the proposal for a so-called structural reform of the banking sector. I am talking here about the separation of utility and business activities from banks. This could have been a first step to really tackle Europe's problem of banks that are still too big to fail. Now the Commission withdrew this proposal at the end of last year, arguing that the objective has already been achieved by other means. Does the government agree with this? The minister's predecessor called it one of the building blocks of the banking union. What happened in the meantime? I'd like a response from the Minister. At the end of the day, governments still have to guarantee and the losses are socialised. That is why, according to the Commission, but also according to the government, there is a need for a so-called common back-up, a rescue fund behind the rescue fund if it really is to be clawed out again. Now the Minister wants to limit the size of the catch-up, otherwise it is not credible that everything will eventually be repaid by the banks. At the same time, however, such a catch must be large enough to act as a credible backstop. In our view, there is a real tension between these two, a trade-off between the credibility of the recovery on the one hand and the credibility of the promise that the taxpayer will not again suffer. In the very late reply to my questions on this matter more than two months ago, the Minister states that he does not see this tension as such. As far as we are concerned, that is not such a credible answer. Can the Minister promise here that in the next crisis it will really be the banks themselves who will pay the bill? And again, if you want to prevent it from being necessary at all to intervene with public money that may or may not be repaid, can't you come up with much more effective methods? I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr President. When it comes to how the current neoliberal European project undermines our democracy, there is another dimension that cannot be ignored. This is that political primacy has been exchanged for the primacy of the European market, and citizens' control has been restricted in favour of the influence of European large companies and large banks. In its present form, with the emphasis on Europe as an area of free competition, the European integration process has contributed to a shifting balance of power between capital and labour, between business and the rest of society, in favour of capital. Old D66 leader Jan Terlouw said not so long ago: "We are ruled by capital I am not only talking about the Netherlands, I am talking about the whole world. Politics is no longer the boss." However, more attention should be paid to how this process is strengthened and enshrined in laws and regulations by European integration. This is partly due to the often praised internal market. The SP is not against the internal market, but it is not just about its blessings. I have already mentioned the four freedoms, and in particular the freedom of capital, have given the large business and the large banks an unprecedented freedom of movement and have also led to a large concentration of economic power, which has translated into political power, into a huge pinnacle of both the decision-making process in Brussels and the decision-making process in national capitals. Does the government share the view of the SP Group that the EU is also facing a challenge on this issue when it comes to restoring our democracy? I would like a response from both ministers. Mr President, I am almost at the end of my speech. There is one other point I should like to make. Europe is bigger than the EU. This week, the Foreign Ministers of the 47 Member States of the Council of Europe in Copenhagen are discussing the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Human Rights Court. Will the Minister be present? What, then, is the Dutch position, also in the light of the discussion between the government and the First Chamber about this controversial statement, draft declaration at least? What is the situation with regard to the accession of the EU to the ECHR, as required by the Treaty of Lisbon? Is there gonna be any of that? Mr President, in conclusion. For the SP Group, the challenge with regard to the future of Europe is how to make the EU more democratic and regain control where it belongs: with the citizens. Rather than having to choose between the EU and democracy, even if that choice was made quickly, I have a democratic European Union. The EU should then take a step backwards in favour of the autonomy of the Member States, and give scope to restore the primacy of politics. Without being referred to the ophthalmologist, I would like to hear the vision of the cabinet in this matter. In the meantime, I look forward to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u111	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-eerstekamer-3.u112	I'm gonna take a look at the clock. The next speaker was Mr Knapen, who had registered for 25 minutes. We were supposed to suspend at 12:30. If Mr Knapen has only pure speaking time, we can still manage, we could say. But experience has shown that there are still interruptions, so I think I have to decide to suspend. Otherwise, we're not gonna make it. "Sustainable," I hear Mr. Knapen say. Well, I'm glad to hear that's wise! I'm suspending for lunch.
