ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u1	I believe that all the Members who have spoken on this legislative proposal are now back in the Chamber. The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal 34763, extension of the power of closure of drug houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u3	Thank you. I'm starting with something that was for me a first time in a sense it was a maidenhearing, because it was allowed to listen to a maiden speech. I would like to congratulate you, Mr President, on the quality of your colleague Mr Andriessen's speech, because it was a resounding and, above all, consistent maiden speech. And that's something that should be said. Mr. Chairman. What are we discussing here today? According to Article 13b of the Opium Act, the mayor may close a house or other property if that property is used for the production of or trafficking in drugs. The purpose of this bill is also to allow for the closure of a drug offence in cases of criminal preparation. Why is that so important to me now? First of all, let me say that we have a very big drug problem in the Netherlands. In 2017 I relied on that in my budget. There were 86 synthetic drug laboratories dismantled. Almost 5,000 hemp or pot plantations have been rolled up. In the Netherlands alone, 10,000 kilograms of cocaine have been intercepted and seized. Another tens of thousands of kilos of cocaine have been intercepted in the neighbouring countries which were intended not only for the Dutch market but also for transit to other countries. With that I have already given some staggering numbers. Of course, I'm dealing with this drug crime primarily in criminal law. By way of illustration: in 2017, the Public Prosecutor's Office addressed 1,361 so-called CSVs, criminal partnerships: criminal law, but also tax law and in all possible other ways. In addition, you will read about this regularly in the news media, including large fish or their adjutants successfully convicted of criminal offences. So much for criminal charges. Crime. These practices also have a huge impact on the quality of life in the neighbourhoods. That is what I stand for today; that is what this competence is for. That doesn't make the mayor a sheriff. It is and remains the mayor: our citizen's mother or citizen's father. He or she is thus enabled to protect the liveability in the municipality or in the neighborhoods of that municipality and to ensure that that viability can also remain and develop. That's something that's next to criminal law. Mr Engelaar said the same thing. Excuse me, Mr Schouwenaar. Mr Schouwenaar rightly pointed that out. That's our system. The state's attorney's office is prosecuting, the mayor's in charge, and the judge's in charge. That's the trias politician getting away with it. Application of the proposed article of law requires a balance between the interests of the locality and the landlord or tenant of the property in question. The mayor shall review that on a case-by-case basis, taking into account proportionality. I shall now turn to the thematic discussion of the questions raised by your Members, but I would like to say that at some point I will be discussing the research by PhD candidate Michelle Bruijn. I would like to begin with an important point raised by Mrs Andriessen and Mr Dercksen: what are you going to do in the main to prevent the production of drugs from continuing? Is there a big plan of attack? Yeah, as far as I'm concerned, there's a big plan of attack. This is demonstrated by the fact that this cabinet has set aside 100 million for an undermining fund. I would like to say a few words about this to your Chamber. In this context, we have asked several regions to come up with projects to deal with this undermining crime as much as possible locally. The main theme here is the illicit drug industry: trade, production and manufacture. In addition, the cabinet makes 10 million per year available on a structural basis. It focuses very much on everything that is going on around the illegal drug industry. I say 'everything that goes on around the illegal drug industry', because we are talking about an industry that is also involved in trafficking in human beings. An industry that often uses human trafficking and all kinds of other illegal activities to generate revenue to finance and set up that much larger drug trafficking. We are talking about a drug industry that laundered EUR 16 billion last year. In short, we are really talking about a big issue here, that I am tackling with an attack plan with clearly released funds. I should like to conclude by saying that in March/April I spoke at a major international conference on drugs on the point that we have indeed created an industry in the Netherlands which we are ashamed of. We need to tackle them, because we are a rule of law and we want to stay there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u4	We should not dwell on this for too long, because it is about the law that allows the mayor to close buildings earlier. We're talking about the size of an industry that's mega. I mentioned 19 billion and you yourself mentioned 16 billion; these are mega sums. Now you come up with an attack plan of 10 and 100 million and you ask the region: what can we do with it? I do not feel that we are going to win the battle and that is enough. Shouldn't we also go a step further in terms of the penalties we impose? Criminals are calculating people who see where they get the lowest penalties for the actions they commit. They're not gonna grow pot in Eastern Europe, because it's their turn. They do that in the Netherlands. I mentioned the example of the pot dealer in the schoolyard who got community service. As long as we let these people get away with this kind of light punishment, I'm not gonna call it pranks, are we just gonna invite them to exploit their trade here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u5	There are a number of legislative proposals in consultation in which, for example, membership of a criminal organisation is given a heavier criminalisation, precisely to prevent people from hiding behind "I was just a cog" or something like that. I'll go straight to the next thing. I have briefly put this in order for you to state that there is indeed an attack plan. But this part we're talking about today has to do with making our neighborhoods liveable. Moreover, you should not compare the endgame achieved in the streets with drug trafficking with the money that we need to act vigorously. That's a bit of putting two very different quantities next to each other. I am convinced that with these investments, the cabinet is taking really good, great steps to get involved in the fight, but we need to do so as a society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u6	Mr. Dercksen again, please, through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u7	Of course. With all due respect, I don't really see the amounts the Minister mentioned as a major plan of attack. In a small debate with Mr Schouwenaar, I mentioned the 1,000 agents we have lost in the last five years. There are, of course, many examples of capacity. Last week was in the news that we let 16,000 people who we know did something run because there's no capacity. As long as that's daily practice, words like "a great plan of attack" sound a bit shaky to me. Maybe now we can get back to the bill, but that's how I look at this case with some kind of helicopter look.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u8	I am very pleased that Mr Dercksen draws attention to another part of the attack plan, namely that we are investing 291 million more in the police structuralally. That's on top of the other money I mentioned. That means the formation of the police is really going up again. In the coming years, there will also be more agents on the streets and in the search. Moreover, some 291 million will also be invested in improving the resources used to carry out the search. It is good that that could also be discussed. I'm going back to what I said in my introduction and what we're talking about today. This is, above all, a competence which takes place in addition to criminal law and which aims to enable the mayor to make an assessment of the quality of life of the neighbourhood and the immediate living environment. Let's make that very clear. In this context, I would like to speak about Mrs Andriessen's question on the cumulation of powers of mayors. The legislator will always try to find solutions to social problems, but of course we must do so in a way that fits in with our state system. I would almost say: our rule of law system and the aforementioned trias politicians. I am, of course, looking at whether a new power is useful, responsible and necessary and, if so, who can best obtain it. Moreover, the power set out in the legislative proposal is one which I would like to say to Mrs Andriessen, through you, which mayors themselves have requested. I also believe that the power is proportionate and reasonable, precisely in view of the objective of this quality of life which I have set out. As I said before, this bill gives the mayor the power to close a building after the discovery of substances or objects that can be clearly linked to drug trafficking or production. In doing so, the mayor can act against the effects of this property-related drug crime on public life and provides an administrative part of the comprehensive approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u9	Mrs Andriessen. You need to press the button on the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u10	Okay, this is a virgin button for me. The Minister talks about the viability of neighborhoods. In my contribution, I have focused on the viability of the situation of mayors. Of course it is about powers and so on, but who is protecting them? There are countless examples at this time of mayors having to dive. It has been discussed by Pieter Tops and has been discussed by a number of professors. I would also like to know from you: if powers are transferred in this sphere or if new ones are created for mayors, who will protect them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u11	It is right that this point should be raised. For the sake of clarity, I have to say that we are not talking about numerous mayors. However, there are a number of mayors, and that is bad enough, as well as other municipal administrators, for whom there are indeed threats. There are two different programs. On the one hand, the programme of my colleague from the Interior, Mr Ollongren, which was presented in June. In it, it focuses on measures for a resilient governance. On the other hand, Mr President, and then you come to me, Mr President-in-Office, there is the security of mayors. It is precisely for this reason that the mayors are explicitly involved in the consultation through various bodies: the VNG, but also the National Security and Police Consultation, in which all the security regional presidents are involved. It is a question of looking at whether a power would actually add something to a meaningfully effective administrative toolbox and, as I have just said, that mayor would not play a role in which he would be even more in the eyes of criminal organisations. The emphasis has now been placed on mayors, but I think we should not forget that a number of prosecutors and even a large number of police officers are also suffering from threats from criminal organisations. That is why this is a problem on which I am very clear with two different ideas. One is that we will have to fight crime. The other thing is: we really need to pay attention to the viability of the homes and neighborhoods. I've been on countless work visits and I've seen the neighborhoods where this is taking place. Whether it's Blerick and Venray or a neighborhood in Eindhoven, we shouldn't let that happen as a society and we should focus on it. However, the safety of mayors and I will conclude with that, both for Mr Ollongren and for me, is a very important point, and that is what we are working on, along the lines I outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u12	Mrs Andriessen once again, through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u13	Can you give one concrete example of what you agreed with the mayors about their security?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u14	We agreed with the mayors yesterday in the LOVP that we will see what else we can do within the instruments in the coming spring. This is separate from the security measures which now apply, in concrete terms, however sad, for example, to the mayor of Haarlem. So we are doing this together, taking their ideas along with them, to ensure that the security of mayors is even more guaranteed than at present. That is to say, these kinds of threats are farther away from them. But I would like to emphasise the problem of this hardened drug crime. I don't want to bother your Chamber with examples, but I'm calling that boy, a welfare worker, who was just shot randomly last year in Wittenburg because he happened to look like someone who needed to be wound up. All those things. It points to a very hardened crime where unfortunately our government people, mayors, aldermen, but also prosecutors and police officers, are suddenly in the midst of a threat. When I look at 20 years ago, I was just a citizen and attorney at the time, I don't remember this playing in such a way at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u15	I suggest that the Minister continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u16	I think proportionality is a very important point. The closure of a building............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ If the purpose of the closure, the removal from the criminal circuit of the property in question and the repetition can also be achieved in a way that is less profound, it is always preferable. It is up to the mayor to state his reasons in that regard and to demonstrate proportionality. This includes, in the documents, that all interests must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u17	Mrs Strik wants to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u18	Yes, the Minister is already in proportionality, but I was still hoping for answers on the necessity of this bill. I don't know if he's going back to that point. At least I ask him to answer my questions. Others seem to be struggling with that, too. Which niche is going to fill this bill, given all the possibilities that already exist? The explanatory memorandum contained already mentioned Articles 1 and 2 of the Housing Act, in conjunction with Article 17 of the Housing Act, which allows drug houses to be closed if the viability of the environment so requires. It is a matter of repeated disturbance of law and order. I can imagine that if production is already taking place there, the search site will first confiscate stuff there. At the moment when there is a risk of re-production, there is already the possibility to close a building under the Housing Act. My question is then: in what situation do we need this bill, because we would not have enough instruments in our hands now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u19	The answer to that is very simple. This bill is there to be able to close the premises in those situations where, in a building, things are found in such a way that they are clearly related to drug production. It may happen that in a particular situation the mayor does not decide to close down. I'm gonna talk about that later. The need for this is that, hence the addition to the law, in these situations too, the mayors themselves have called for this, in which only the stuff of drug production is found, there is the possibility to close. I have been here for the past year, and I would like to see some justification here as well, and I want to see how that happens in a number of places. This isn't the kind of neighborhood I live in. It's just neighborhoods with ordinary people living in a row of houses and going to work in the morning. In the middle of that list there are two garages and then it turns out at some point that one of those garages is used as a drug laboratory or as a storage facility for stuff. Or that one of those houses I've seen several times is used for storing all kinds of stuff. And indeed, anonymous concerns come to the municipality or to the mayor. This was just led by Member Schouwenaar. At the moment there is no possibility in the law to say: we are also going to close this property, because there is, everything weighing up, and then I am going to talk about a concrete situation here, which is important to put an end to that situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u20	Shortly, Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u21	Yeah, short?! I have received a very long answer and I would now like to ask my question again. We're all concerned with this vitality. The Minister points out that 13b Opium law now offers the possibility only if it is drugs. I understand that this is now the enlargement. My question was: are there no other legal possibilities for doing this already? I am thinking of Article 174 Municipal Law and Article 1a and 1b Housing Act. That is precisely what it is about when public order demands it, when there is a nuisance or a threat to the environment, that a building can be closed down. Perhaps the Minister could go into that more precisely?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u22	I have already replied, but I would like to repeat that. I have no problem with that. This is a legal competence that is not yet available. If you want to know exactly: the mayor cannot close the building simply on the basis of a public order argument in such a situation. That's all I have to say. I think it is an addition, because it is precisely something that mayors need in order to be able to decide, after proper consideration, proportionately applied, that they close such a property in certain situations, so that those drugs can no longer be present there. Let me give you an example, just for the sake of kindness, of finding 2,000 liters of hydrochloric acid in a residential area. I would almost like to say to your Chamber: go to John Jorritsma, mayor of Eindhoven. At some point he arranged for a touring van, with which he took MPs, but also yours truly, Minister Ollongren and other interested parties, through one of the neighbourhoods where this problem is daily cost. Then you do see a building where 2,000 liters of hydrochloric acid are found. That is not a disturbance of public order, but I would be extremely uncomfortable if that were to be found with my neighbors. I would love for the mayor to be able to decide to close that place down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u23	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Strik asked how I would establish the necessary balance between repression and civil law. I have some difficulty with the classification of the power of closure as a repressive measure. Closure is not a punishment, but an administrative measure to remove the property from the drug circuit, let's make that clear. Administrative law imposes requirements on the due diligence of government decisions and thus on those closures. Most municipalities have adopted policy rules for the application of Article 13b. You know that. That's Damocle's policy. On the basis of police reports, the mayor assesses whether closure is necessary to end the infringement of the Opium Act and to prevent recurrence. Then he also looks at whether the adverse effects on those concerned are not disproportionate. The mayor must then first state an intention to close on which interested parties may express their views, and an objection, appeal and appeal shall be open to that decision. Furthermore, during that procedure, interested parties may also ask the Administrative Court to suspend the decision. The Christian Union and GroenLinks, Mrs Bikker and Mrs Strik, both asked what measures this minister is taking to encourage a cautious and careful handling of 13b. In reply to Mrs Strik's previous question, I have already given ample indication of how this procedure itself is surrounded by care and legal protection. It is therefore up to the mayor to finalise the justification and demonstrate proportionality. This really means that the interests of all concerned are taken into account. By the way, I said in the House of Representatives that when implementing this bill I will ensure that there is really very good information for municipalities on how this competence should be handled. Mrs Strik's question was: should we not always carry out a well-known and verifiable study of proportionality? That's right. This follows explicitly from the Awb and the case law. The mayor must therefore also provide his decision with a sound and well-known statement of reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u24	In itself, that situation is as it is now. But if you examine the case law in all these years, it turns out that 30% of the cases make the decision unfounded. Will you come back in a moment to see how that is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u25	I had already announced at the beginning that I would talk about this, but I would like to bring that up. I don't want to keep people in suspense. I want to say something about the 30%. Mrs Bruijn examined these 217 statements for the period 2008 to 2016. She herself says that according to her calculation there were 1,200 closures in 2016 alone. In other words, it is a fine study, but we must also make sure that this is only about a small part of the matter, namely 217 in eight years' time. That is different from the 1,200 a year, at least in 2016 and around that. It's a small number. At that 30% I also have to make a nuance. In 150 of the 217 cases, it was a provisional suspension of the closure decision. By the way, only part of the cases examined were housing. That does not alter the fact that I said in the House of Representatives and stress here once again that analysis of the closure decisions in the monitor is really important. Following on from Mrs Vlietstra's questions about this monitor, I would also like to say that I will consider whether or not I will ask the scientists who are going to set up this monitor to include a diversity of research criteria. But I do not want to go into this in more detail now, because I think it is mainly up to those who do that research to formulate exactly how they want to divide the main question, namely monitoring the proportionality test, into sub-questions. In any case, I would like to have said here through you, Mr President, to Mrs Vlietstra that I am indeed going to ensure that they can also take a number of partial questions with them. In this respect, I am entirely in favour of the Buitenweg/Van Nispen motion, but I also hope to meet Mrs Vlietstra's wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u26	The SP Group has also asked a question about this. The investigation you're promising isn't for another three years. The question of the SP Group and the Party for Animals was about doing research on those statements. Those investigations show that many judgments have been declared unfounded... evacuations have been declared unfounded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u27	I have just responded to Mrs Bruijn's research, which is still under way, because there are a number of articles still to be published. I can't say much more about that than I have said about it now, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u28	The question is: has it been analysed whether it is going well at the moment or not? So is your analysis: I think it's going to be okay? What's the analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u29	Okay. Excuse me, I thought you asked if we were going to investigate that investigation again, but I didn't think that was entirely appropriate. I have just indicated that Mrs Bruijn, in her own research, calculates that it is 1,200 a year. You've examined and published 217 judgments, 30% of which are well founded. Then I will stop talking about the fact that a large part of it concerned interim measures. 30% of that 217 is, if I say so, 70, 72 or about that. In eight years' time, measured on a total of 800, 900 a year, so in eight years' time something of 6,500 cases, I don't think that's a shocking number in itself. On the contrary, I think it is even very good that it appears that the system is working and that in a statistically reasonable number of cases the judge corrects and says: the decision should have been different. If you look at the figures of the total number of decisions taken each year, I think that so far the mayors themselves have handled proportionality in a good way. That, of course, is what you are talking about... Mrs Wezel is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u30	Mrs Wezel, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u31	Finally. Then what are you basing that on? You state yourself: a scientist has been promoted to this task and has done extensive research on it. What is the Minister now basing himself on how well the mayors are doing now, when I look at the 810 evacuations in 2017, related to drugs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u32	I base it on the fact that there are 217 judgments published over the period 2008 to 2016. It is, of course, always the more difficult cases that go to court and in which it is not very black and white. In 30% of the cases, the court has stated that the action is well founded. I'm gonna leave all the nuances of the merits of the appeal aside for now. It is 70 cases, which is a relatively small percentage of the total number of closures that took place between 2008 and 2016. Then I'll just take the number that Mrs Bruijn herself calculates for the number of closures she thought there was in 2016, namely 1,200. Suppose you extrapolate that 1,200 in eight years. Then I do it lower, because at the beginning of the law it will have been less cases, I may assume. Let's calculate an average of 800 in eight years, so eight times 800 is 6,400. Then the 70 cases in which the action was upheld by the court are slightly more than 1%. I would like to use another margin of error, especially if I calculate it for you here on a Tuesday. We can certainly get a better view of it with the monitor I promised and also if we put some more questions in that monitor, as suggested by Mrs Vlietstra. But at least I get the impression that mayors handle that power in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u33	Let's get back to the Minister's promise. Quite a few groups here have concerns about the proportionality of the bill. My group is one of them. And because we do not actually have enough data for the past few years, it is difficult to give a proper assessment of this proportionality. That is why we very much welcome the motion that I believe was adopted unanimously on the other side of the House. But my group needs to be very clear about what points should be monitored over the next few years. I understand now that the Minister says that he wants to put some of these points on the board of the body that is going to conduct the investigation, I say just as unparliamentary. I'm assuming the Minister is also in charge of that investigation. In my view, these are very reasonable and obvious points that I have mentioned. I would very much like the Minister to include these points in his consultation with the research institute, so that we can assess in three years' time whether proportionality is indeed in line with what we all want. And more importantly, so that we can assess whether this measure has also led to the elimination of undesirable situations. 'Cause that's what we're doing eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u34	For the sake of clarity, I shall begin by saying that I will pass on one-on-one the points mentioned by Mrs Vlietstra to those who are about to do that research. I would also like to assure you that I will do so in a way that allows the researchers to see to what extent, in all circumstances, it makes sense to tackle one or more of these criteria. So I will not say to them: Mrs Vlietstra said this, but you are not going to do that. But I'm gonna put it in a serious way with those investigators. Furthermore, I think it is particularly important that then the monitor, and the evaluation of the law, indicate that this legal provision has indeed worked in an effective and proportionate manner. I think that's what this is all about. I hope I put it so well for Mrs. Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u35	Despite that 30%, the Minister has the impression that the mayors deal with it proportionally. But from various sides, and here too by political groups, what role does the Minister see for himself to ensure that this proportionality is indeed respected? Maybe the Minister can say something about that. What measures does he take to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u36	I believe that the Minister should, of course, at some point allow this arrangement to be carried out in practice. I also think that the points of information at the beginning, which I have just mentioned, are important. Look, that's how you need to see this authority as a whole. Moreover, I would like to say in fairness that the expertise of municipal officials in this area is often at a very high level in the Netherlands. But this aside. Furthermore, when working on this scheme, that monitor will also start. It will, of course, be a kind of mirror for the care and proportionality that mayors are going to observe. I think that as an instrument this will certainly only be an additional incentive to make a proper assessment. I'll see if I've answered all of Mrs Wezel's points. I thought I did at least do that on this part. I come to Mrs Strik's questions about the large differences between municipalities in the application of Article 13b. It's an independent power of the mayor. This indeed leads to differences between municipalities. This is partly due to the large differences in the problems that local authorities sometimes face at local level. It also has to do with certain solutions that are chosen locally or in the security region. You can also see this in the various projects that have been delivered under this undermining fund. We did that very deliberately bottom-up. There you also saw that there are really different accents and different kinds of plans coming from the regions. Two regions in the south, for example, have come up with a very large joint plan. You can feel it: in that strip of Brabant and a piece of Zeeland, over a very long horizontal line in the Netherlands, the problem is the same. In other security regions you can see that there are already different problems within the security region itself. I admit that I am answering a question from Mrs Strik again for a while, but I am doing it with the best of intentions. We are dealing here with a problem which is very different in the various regions. Finally, in order to confirm that Damocle policy, municipalities tend to coordinate very much with each other. As far as I am concerned, the five major municipalities in North Brabant are the textbook example of how this can work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u37	Mrs. Strik, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u38	I understand very well that the Minister wants to respond to these differences in the regions. At the same time, the legal certainty of citizens is also affected by this competence. So perhaps the Minister can comment on that. Another point is that this also reminds me of the experimental clause, in which municipalities now say: Minister, make sure that regional differences are taken into account. They say: we all want different modalities. It has been considered for a long time and in municipalities there is a fear that one single project, one single pilot, will be rolled out in six to ten municipalities. The fear is that it is precisely these regional differences that cannot be brought to their senses and sorted out. It is feared that it will say: this has failed, and now everything has failed. So perhaps the Minister can do justice to these regional differences in that respect too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u39	Mr President, I hope you will forgive me for observing that debates in your Chamber always go down well. Here too, that is true. I am now going to try to come up with a single answer from the question of legal certainty to the issue of an experimental law. It is two things which, as Mrs Strik rightly says, are of course linked, even if only because your Chamber has adopted a law on the duration of experiments today. But this whole thing aside. Mr. Chairman. Yes, legal certainty is, of course, served by consistent application of administrative measures. "Equal cases must be treated equally" is a well-known story. But here we have to realise that the consequence is that the opposite also applies: unequal cases must be treated unequally. In the previous answer, I said that, of course, we can see that there are regional differences in the way drugs work out. I can be very honest about it; in my hometown, the capital city, there are not so many laboratories for synthetic drugs in the countryside, which is not there either. In the capital, there is much more to do with, for example, very large groups of people coming from outside to buy drugs there. And in Brabant, I've just said it, they have really big problems in terms of production, but also dumping the waste and what's more. This still means that we want to include in this law a power that allows the mayor to close a building, whether it is in Brabant or somewhere in Amsterdam, if the substances and stuff related to drug production are found in such a building. That closure takes place after consideration of all interests of neighbors and neighborhoods. This is a problem that leaves nothing to be desired in terms of clarity and legal certainty, because everyone throughout the Netherlands does not want to live in a neighborhood next to a building where you know at some point that drug production is being prepared or even carried out. I understand that legal certainty in terms of the weed experiment, but let me clarify a few points, if you will allow me, Mr President. Then I will also go straight to questions that have been asked, within the framework of time. Let me start by saying that this Minister has not expressed a positive opinion on the use of soft drugs. However, I have said, and I repeat this here, that I understand that a majority of society wants an experiment in the field of regulated weed cultivation. Why? It's about soft drugs, which aren't on list I of the Opium Act. This experiment could prove that you can get weed trafficking out of the criminal circuit. You have seen that the Knottnerus Committee has given an extremely well-balanced opinion on this point. That weed experiment is now being designed. I can imagine that in all the hustle and bustle you have somewhat escaped, but at the beginning of July the bill went to the House of Representatives. To those who count very precisely on the calendar, I must admit that it was not within six months of the office's arrival, but that was because both the Knottnerus Advisory Committee and the State Council needed more time for their opinions than they had initially indicated. We also gave them this time, with the agreement of all the parties involved in the Chamber. The roll-out of the general measure of governance and consultation with municipalities is taking place rapidly. I understand the impatience, at least outside your Chamber, with that majority in society; it has also been mentioned a little today. But in the 1950s, I'm showing it to journalists these days, and a bill went on a school record that really fits around here for this teacher. Council of State, Second Chamber, First Chamber and then the King and the countersign of one of my illustrious predecessors, and that was it. Then I'll show them the four sheets with all these bullets with new things that need to be done nowadays in the areas of consultation, re-consultation and what's more. I'm not saying that's not good. That's part of our more complex society. Thorough law-preparation really requires more these days. This patience must be met not only with this legislation but also with other legislation, but we have not lost a day in the process. There are also misunderstandings about the duration of the experiment. I'm gonna have to take that away, too. As your Chamber knows, you have adopted a legislative proposal on it today. By definition, an experimental law has a limited duration. I can't do much about that either. In this case there is an experiment that can last four to a maximum of six years. Whether it is longer than those four years depends on the evaluation and the results at that time, but you will understand that this minister should not look beyond that period. I can see you nodding in your head. I would also like to correct that many municipalities would have been permanently abandoned, as has been suggested. I had a good chat with the VNG last Monday, in which I really want to emphasise this in your Chamber, where I found that there are still real possibilities to fill in a few things a little bit different. Not on all points, but we're good at talking to each other about it. There were also mayors sitting at the table who openly, with or without a camera in the neighborhood, made themselves critical. But I'm still convinced that this experiment is going to come, and in a really good, useful way. I shall come back to that legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u40	Mr. Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u41	I wanted one more...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u42	Oh, you wanted to say one more thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u43	One sentence, through you to Mrs. Strik. Of course, we are looking at certain regional components, but the agreement is very clear: we are doing a uniform weed experiment. That is something the Knottnerus Committee really supports. It is critical on a number of other points, but it also says: you must indeed do a clear uniform experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u44	We're wandering a little bit, but the minister himself is bringing up the weed experiment. I am just curious to see how this will take place in the prevention agreement, in which the cabinet dictates to restaurants how big the steaks may be and in which smokers are kind of labeled as the biggest criminals in this country. Where do we find this weed experiment in this prevention agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u45	As I said, I must confess that I always find it a pleasure to engage in a debate with your Chamber, but I must respect one limit: that of my portfolio. I would therefore like to pass on Mr Dercksen's question to my colleague from VWS. I should not go into that now in this debate, which is about the mayor's administrative competence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u46	This Minister has just surprised me with the announcement that we have adopted an experimental law in the Senate today. Would he like to explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u47	No, you passed the law on the duration of experiments today, I believe. It was on the list as a hammer piece, I saw. That was about voting from abroad and extending the possibility of, I suppose, experimenting with voices from abroad or something like that. But I am concerned that the policy rules on this point state that experimental laws are always limited in duration. That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u48	That's Bill 35012. That's what we took at hammerstroke today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u49	I saw it. I didn't mean any harm. It was just to say, and I would like to stress this once again: that experiment has now been described in a meaningful way and we are also going to look with the VNG at what we may have to encrypt with each other on a number of points. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to an important point by Mrs Wezel. It's about legal protection. At least, I think that these questions are actually about the issue of legal protection. Aren't mayors rushing to closure? Shouldn't they first impose another measure? When finding a small amount of soft drugs in a home, there is usually a first warning, provided that there are no indications that drugs are sold, delivered or provided in or from the home. Often there are indications and then they close immediately. So, again, if those indications are clear, they are also apparent from the mayor's reasoning in his decision: either a quantity of hard drugs is found or a more than small amount of soft drugs. Please bear in mind my words: a more than small quantity of trade. In the case of a small quantity of soft drugs, therefore, not yet, but in the case of more than a small quantity of trade. It'll close right away. The case law supports that line. Closure is often necessary to remove the reputation of the property as a drug house and remove the barrel to the property. Then there's an important point. You also asked about the big fish. Is this what you're getting at? Yeah, because the place is also being taken from the drug circuit. I said at the beginning that in the past year 1,361, I would say, out of my mind, criminal partnerships have been wound up and a number of fish have also been severely prosecuted. For the removal of such a property, this is the case for the viability of residents and the like, and also to take it out of the drug manufacturing circuit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u50	What should I think about in terms of user quantities? When can people be evacuated and when can people not be evacuated? I want people to be more clear about that. Then you can say that's municipal policy, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u51	If you want exact numbers from me, I'll give them to you in the second term, because I don't have one-two-three like that. But they are defined concepts: quantity of trade or quantity of use.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u52	The second term seems fine to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u53	Yeah, I'll come back to you with the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u54	Mrs Wezel, any further question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u55	I'll be right back, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u56	May I ask the Minister how much longer he thinks he needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u57	Well, without interruptions, I'm gonna need another ten minutes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u58	Good, good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u59	I would like to dwell on the issue of administrative and criminal law. I really want to stress that closing a building is not a punishment according to criminal law. I'm sure most of you can see that, too. It's a repair order. I have already said that this is partly done to restore viability and partly to remove the property from the drug trade circuit. It's also really focused on the property. And it also, I would like to emphasise, does not stand in the way of the opportunity principle of the Public Prosecutor's Office to bring criminal prosecution or not. I think that is clear, and I also think, coming back to Mrs Strik, that it is really necessary for mayors to have such an instrument, in this case extended to drugs manufacturing equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u60	An interruption, Mrs Strik, because I would like to conclude this debate before dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u61	The Minister says that the prosecution can, of course, also exercise its powers. But is there some sort of prioritisation, for example, so that the Minister says that the preference is for the application of criminal powers and only then, as a safety net, the powers of administrative coercion, given the many safeguards that exist in criminal law, which are lacking in administrative coercion? How does the Minister view this affair? Or can it just run side by side? Or is it possible to apply criminal law earlier one time or another?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u62	I have already made this clear in my introduction and in response to previous questions. That's side by side. The mayor does have a judicial test, but that's an administrative test. That is quite different from the possible criminal proceedings. You shouldn't think they say to each other in the morning: what will we do, criminal law or administrative law? The mayor has to decide for himself eventually. As has already been said, the police report is decisive in this respect. Are I dealing here with a building in which, taking into account all the circumstances, the explanatory statement and the response statement are in the interest of the viability and all the other matters I have mentioned here? Mr Schouwenaar rightly asked about procedural safeguards in administrative law. That administrative law does indeed have that test on all the principles that are laid down in it. For the purposes of Article 13b, most municipalities have also laid down policy rules in the Damocle policy. The police make a report on the basis of which the mayor then assesses whether closure is necessary. I would like to stress that he also looks at the adverse consequences for tenants or landlords. If he has expressed his intention to close and the opinion has been given, he shall give his decision. That is, therefore, one of the legal safeguards provided for. I'm going to get to one for the chairman non-fine folder: other. Because of course that can go either way. But I'm going through it pretty fast anyway. Mr Dercksen asked if I would still be willing to consult with the rental industry in order to reach agreements. I'm sure I'm willing to do that. I'll give you my word on that. Tenants can take action, in addition to the mayor's. In order to explore how the measures of landlords and municipalities can reinforce each other, I have asked the CCV to start such a conversation in the short term. Mr Schouwenaar asked whether there was sufficient capacity for implementation and enforcement of 13b Opium Act. I'm gonna hold off on the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u63	Thank you for this commitment. I think we all had an e-mail in this house from another real-estate organization who would also like to join that consultation. I can't remember the name that quickly, but it's a different name than the one you mentioned. So perhaps you can promise that you will speak to the real estate sector widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u64	The CCV is an organization that works with my department to set up these kinds of conversations. I believe that Real Estate Management has been mentioned, but of course we are going to table with representative organisations. I come to Mr Schouwenaar's question. Let me make it clear that it is an extension of an existing competence, which allows the mayor to apply administrative constraints. It is up to the mayor to assess locally whether it is appropriate to proceed with this whole proportional procedure and to determine whether there is capacity. That's a local decision I shouldn't go into any further. Mr Schouwenaar asked how to adapt existing legislation in order to deal with rogue new landlords. That is not necessary, because the law already has several possibilities to act against crooked tenants. For example, the landlord may terminate the lease out of court if the property is closed pursuant to Article 13b. The administrative reports of the police, in response to a question from Mrs Vlietstra, are of great importance. The police are aware of that importance. The reports as they are now delivered are also really of good quality. In the end, it is still up to the mayor to assess whether he believes that closure is justified. Mrs Vlietstra asked a question about offering homes to people who are blacklisted. I am aware that housing corporations take measures against tenants who have a certain quantity of trade or other business, or even a whole hemp plantation. In hemp cultivation, there is a high risk of fire due to short circuit. It is therefore often prohibited in the rental agreement. So I do understand that housing corporations are very difficult to do, so to speak, and that they don't want to take people back into the rental business. But that is not so much an issue that arises from the decision of the mayor sec, but rather from the fact that things have happened in those houses that were in breach of the lease.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u65	In particular, my group and other groups have mentioned situations where people under duress, or because they thought they might come from other problems, are on that blacklist. I don't think it can be that these people are then no longer eligible for housing. My question was whether you see this free space for corporations of 10% for calamities and force majeure, including me, as an opportunity, even in your consultation with municipalities, to meet the problems that arise as a mayor decides to close such a house. If people do so knowingly, I honestly have less consideration with that, but you yourself have already stated in your written reply that you also know cases of people who have cooperated in anything out of naivety or under duress or whatever, without having seen the consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u66	In that written explanation, which I have just looked up, I said that we are not yet aware of any cases where or where closure has taken place. I think that in the coming years this should certainly be a point that we should zoom in on, to put it out loud, but ultimately it is a consideration of housing corporation in the context of the existing agreements whether one wants to move forward with a particular party. As far as parliamentary history is concerned, I would also like to have said out loud to Mrs Vlietstra that it is part of the proportional weighting of the mayor to see exactly what the circumstances have been and how they relate to the interests of residents and those involved. There may be situations, I will not ignore them, in which it has to be said that the importance of closing that building still weighs the hardest. We'll have to keep that with the mayor. Again, in any case, the case law shows that this consideration is being extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u67	Then what does the Minister do with a family that gets out on the street and into the shelter? Eventually, the city takes the fall for that. What happens to those people who lose their homes because the housing corporation is evacuating on the basis of this information? In the end, these people are on the streets and the problem lies again with the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u68	I think that Mrs Wezel and I have a single case in which this was the ultimate consequence. Then that very careful path, also under the current regime, is already over by first reporting from the police, then the mayor and then that possibility of view and so on. At some point there is the local balance, which must be proportional, that is clear, to decide whether to intervene or not to close. I think that the monitor should confirm in the coming years whether that is an image that does not extend beyond a single case, in which therefore a very poignant situation arises. Even so, it's still up to local authority. Mrs Wezel is right to say that it will come back to the municipality, so it is really up to the municipality to take those consequences into account in the proportional balance, and not to this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u69	One more question, Mr. Chairman. I do not understand why it is only now being said that there should be a monitor in three years' time and that this Damocle legislation has never been monitored in these areas. We are now on the verge of extending the legislation, when we have no idea whether it is being applied correctly or not. I'd like a response from the Minister to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u70	Well, I made it clear, I thought there were insights. When the House of Representatives came up with a proposal for a monitor for the next three years, I said that I would like to take over, because I think we can improve that understanding indeed, I agree on that. That's what we really need to do with each other. Again, I keep saying out loud that the way mayors have handled that competence over the past eight years has been really good in the light of proportionality. I've got four things left, and I'll get through it soon. Mr Schouwenaar spoke about the landlords and new tenants. So there will also be a screening, I just wanted to say. We're going to investigate that possibility. Of course, we must include all aspects, such as privacy and so on. Mrs Bikker asked if I could go with the Minister of the Interior to equip mayors with waterbed effects. That is a really important point. The Regional Information and Expertise Centres, the so-called RIEC's, create crime images for each region and then we see exactly where the pressure goes down and where it could go up in other places. There will also be a national image now. This is intended to optimise cooperation nationally, including within the framework of the undermining fund. I am going even further and have recently concluded treaties to extend this to the Benelux and the border area with Belgium and North Rhine-Westphalia; Maastricht, Liège, Aachen, I shall say. We really need to get that right with each other. Then there is the state of the art in adding new substances to the opium list. Various solutions have been explored in the last six months. It was a question from Mr Dercksen. We have also looked at the proposed safety net provision in order to achieve a sustainable improvement. All parties in enforcement practice are involved, but I can only say that the intention is to inform Parliament in the first quarter of 2019 about the chosen direction of resolution. Finally, I would like to make one final point. Mrs Strik asked what the long-term vision of this cabinet is for drug use. The cabinet is concerned about the normalization of drug use. It is important to continue to focus on prevention of drug use, but also on combating the undermining crime associated with the production and trafficking of drugs. I hope today I have sufficiently explained to your Chamber why I am so motivated. This is partly about combating serious organised crime, with indeed large financial interests, as Mr Dercksen pointed out, but it is also, and perhaps even more importantly, about really restoring the quality of life in ordinary neighbourhoods in all parts of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u71	It is very nice that the Minister is so committed to this. About his last words, about the viability of the neighbourhoods, I had another question that I would like to see answered by the Minister. If you close a building for six to twelve months and in Mrs Bruijn's many-mentioned overview it was also one of the elements that has a huge impact on a neighbourhood. I said it's a good thing that there's a signal function, that people realize it's not smart to organise a weed plantation there, because then you have to get out of your house, but then looking at nailed planks all this time has an impact that doesn't help the neighborhood up. I therefore asked the Minister if he could, together with the Minister for the Interior and the parties concerned, see if there is any need for a sensible follow-up policy. I have also seen in my city that there are still steps to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u72	That's a very valid point. I was a little short on Mrs Bikker's response, but this is certainly a point that I would like to take up with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I admit. I have to admit it's a little further from my wallet show, so to speak, but I'm picking that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u73	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u74	Thank you for the commitment. I hope the Minister will inform this Chamber of how he has taken that up and what he has done with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u75	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u76	You've finished your first-term response?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u77	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u78	We have now reached the second term of office, but Mrs Wezel has asked for a five-minute suspension. So I'm suspending the meeting until 5:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u79	We will continue with the debate on legislative proposal 34763, extension of the power of closure of drug houses. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u80	Mr. Chairman. Very briefly, not least to congratulate Mrs Andriessen on her maiden speech. Drug use and drug crime are a major social problem, and we differ on whether this cabinet's plan, partly to reverse previous cuts, is now the solution. In any case, it is not the great plan of attack that my group would have in mind. We support this small step, the extension of the power to shut down buildings by mayors, of course. I cannot help saying that, where the Minister expresses his concern about the use of drugs, he himself will soon come forward with a proposal to experiment with growing weed. As far as I am concerned, this shows a high degree of inconsistency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u81	Thank you, Mr. Dercksen. I give the floor to Mrs Andriessen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u82	Mr. Chairman. This minister is absolutely impressed as a crime fighter. He likes to talk about it and he has every reason to do so, but I had the impression that he was lost occasionally, in the sense that this is an amendment to the Opium Act and not so much a change in voting from abroad. So every now and then I felt a little bit sent into the mist. I actually had two questions to do with drug use in the Netherlands on the one hand and the role of the mayor on the other. However, I would like to draw the Minister's attention once again to the fact that it might also be wise to look at what drugs you are actually concentrating on in the fight against them and whether, for example, ecstasy should not be better placed in the sphere of tolerance, which would be a great deal of concern when it comes to combating crime. Furthermore, I found it a bit sad to hear that Brabant produces for Amsterdam. That is a strange division of tasks in the Netherlands. Then the point of the mayors. I dare hardly speak of it, because there are a lot of mayors and ex-mayors in this Senate. Yet I continue to feel the need to draw attention to their position. For example, my question to the Minister was whether, in the struggle he entered into, he wanted to give the mayor new powers. Or is this the end for now? Especially given the questions about research and what exactly happens, I would like to hear this Minister say: let's see how things are going before new things are created in the mayor's task package. So, as far as we are concerned, cumulation is not really at issue. I understand the Minister has good discussions with the mayors on this. However, I know several mayors who do not feel protected by the police, for example, when they have to close a case. So I would like to draw your attention once more to the fact that the mayor as a sheriff doesn't come to the fore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u83	Thank you, Mrs Andriessen. I give the floor to Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u84	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to congratulate Mrs Andriessen on her maiden speech and look forward to her next speeches. Then back to the debate. Unfortunately, as a result of the Minister's reply, I have not become more enthusiastic. As long as there is no understanding of whether the closures are taking place proportionally, I wonder whether the powers should be extended now. The Minister states that the closing of the houses is applied proportionally. However, he does not answer the question on which he bases this. He refers to the limited number of published statements available. However, only a fraction of the statements are published. This does not mean that it can be concluded that the closures have taken place proportionally. At the same time, the Minister indicates that enforcement varies widely in the country and that this creates legal uncertainty. The Minister just indicated that the investigation is there. It seems, therefore, that it is based on information that the closures are taking place in a proportionate manner. That is why I ask the Minister to say that he will provide this information to the Chamber at the end of this week so that we can include it in our group discussions. In addition, I'd like to table a motion. The President shall: Mr Wezel, Mr Koffeman, Mr Van Leeuwen, Mr Meijer and Mr Kox proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that the Buitenweg/Van Nispen motion adopted (TK 34763, nr. (10) the Minister has already asked the House of Representatives to inform the House of Representatives on a three-yearly basis on the monitoring of the use of the power of administrative closure;]] [[noting that it is important for both chambers to be informed of this earlier than three years after the date of the legislative proposal;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the merits of decisions to close down housing and buildings in the period 2008 to date under Article 13b of the Opium Act and to inform both chambers as soon as possible about the results of the investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34763-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u86	Thank you, Mrs Wezel. I give the floor to Mr Schouwenaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u87	Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer to the questions. He has also answered questions that have not been asked very well. I can't say otherwise. We support the seriousness of the drugs problem and drug crime. We also very much appreciate the efforts made by the Minister in many areas to do something about this. In that respect, he can count on our support. Finally, I would like to call on everyone to have confidence in mayors, local democracy and in the cooperation that is excellent on the ground. There is a great deal of commitment there. I don't have to tell the Minister. That's why I'm just saying it in general. That's what I'd like to give everyone to think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u88	Thank you. That's a nice message. I give the floor to Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u89	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply and for the commitment to my group to include all the points of interest we have mentioned for the purpose of the monitor in his consultation with the research institute. I'd like to assume that those points will also get a good place in the monitor. My group agrees with the Minister's line: primarily the criminal law approach, but also administrative possibilities with which the mayor can maintain the quality of life in neighbourhoods and villages. Frankly, I do not recognize myself in the picture that some of us here are sketching that mayors are acting like sheriffs, who are also simply closing down buildings. I know quite a few mayors, including as former colleagues, and my impression is that they deal with this carefully and gradually in practice. They'll have to, because otherwise they'll be at risk of being flogged back by the judge. What do mayors face? Serious degradation of the quality of life, nuisance problems and residents who, rightly, expect to do something about it. I know from experience that the current Article 13b does not provide sufficient opportunities for this. In this sense, the extension of this legislative proposal is a good thing. This is without prejudice to the importance of proportionality and care. The Minister discussed proportionality in detail. I have noted with care that there will be good information for the mayors so that they know how to deal with this law. I would appreciate it if the point of blacklisting could also be taken into account in that consultation and in that good information for mayors, either in their naivety or in any other way that is a little beyond their own capacity. Finally, on the experimental law controlled weed cultivation. I have to admit that it escaped me that that law went to the House of Representatives in July. I have heard the Minister say that the consultations with the VNG and the roll-out of the AMvB are taking place rapidly. It takes a lot of time, but the Minister is convinced that the experiment will come. I would be particularly pleased if we could also deal with this experimental law in this Chamber, because that would at least give us a time limit that we can focus on a little bit. Mr. Chairman. It will be clear that I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u90	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u91	Mr. Chairman. It is clear, and this is recognised by everyone, that drug-related crime, like any crime, is a concern for everyone. I think it is precisely for this reason that it is so important that we look with extreme precision at what is going on. We also need to differentiate in that. There is another difference between soft drugs and hard drugs and between big fish and small fish. We have talked about the undermining fund, the Minister has also involved trafficking in human beings, but let us see exactly what we are talking about and which instrument is the most appropriate. The Minister says about this bill that it's about viability. I note from the explanatory statement to this bill that this is a preventive measure designed to protect public health. That's a big difference. That is important, because we need to see if it is necessary to adopt this law. If you are talking about viability, then we have Article 174 of the Municipal Law, and I said that earlier, and then we have the Housing Act, Article 1a, Article 1b and Article 17, which, precisely in the context of the threat to the environment, give a mayor the opportunity to intervene. Under Article 13b of the Opium Act, we have the opportunity to close a property at drug sales. And we have the criminal procedure. If there are preparatory acts that are criminal, then criminal property can be seized. So what do we have to do as a niche for which we have to adopt this bill? Then it would be material that is not punishable in itself.................................................................................................................................................................. As an example, the Minister mentions large amounts of hydrochloric acid. Yes, that may not in itself be directly punishable under criminal law, but they are dangerous substances. Isn't the Environment Act designed to protect the environment from this? In other words, my group is still looking for the need to adopt this bill. That is all the more so because it is a very heavy responsibility. I hear two former mayors say: give that power to mayors and trust the mayors. As a co-legislator, I think we should say that trust is good, but control is better and more secure. Then the question is whether we need that power and whether it is going to ensure proportional application. When are you gonna bet? We are dealing with the accumulation of powers. Mrs Vlietstra says: primarily criminal law and then this as a supplement. That's not what I hear the Minister say. The Minister says that we must be able to use this side by side and be able to use it. That is precisely what concerns our group. If you could use multiple coercive measures in one situation, on the one hand, confiscate criminal law and, on the other hand, close a building, is it not entirely logical that you then take the least drastic measure and choose criminal law because there are better safeguards for that? Is this not also required by the proportionality requirement? The Minister doesn't want to make a ruling on that. Our group seems perfectly logical that such considerations are made in the triangle and that you then choose the least far-reaching. Maybe the Minister can say something about that. The Minister then said something about the experimental law. We are, of course, very happy that experiments are now being carried out. It is precisely when it comes to public health and prevention that we see much more in a combination of regulation and enforcement, because we believe that this is best for public health. However, we find it extremely sad that the Minister is already saying that he does not want to meet the municipalities that say: choose a differentiated approach, give room for different ways of experimenting with it, because then you will have several outcomes and not just one failed experiment to close the entire discussion about regulation. Finally, Mr President. We are also looking forward to the evaluation. We are glad to see what happens to the people who are being put on the street. We would also ask the Minister to look at effectiveness. The Minister has the idea that this is how we deal with the big fish. We are still afraid that, if you close a building where socially weaker tenants are in, the big fish will then move on to other buildings. We are not so sure that you are going the most effective way. We look forward to the evaluation and the second-term response. We are going to take a good look at the vote next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the Minister for his comprehensive response and above all for his strong commitment to the fight against criminal organisations that make a lot of money on drugs. Today we discussed a clear legislative proposal to amend Article 13b of the Opium Act. My group supports this change. The proportionality of the measure to be implemented has been examined in detail. I would add, however, that Mrs Bruijn's research, which has been much quoted here, assumes that many mayors will in future be better motivated and that the number of court cases to be expected will be reduced because the assessment of proportionality will improve. I've been talking about the waterbed effect. If there is good maintenance in one municipality, what consequences will it have for the next municipality? The Minister has given good answers to this and I hope it will work out that way in practice. Then I talked about the effect on living conditions when homes are closed down. That is precisely where the mayor chooses to use such a measure. The Minister has made a good commitment to look with the Minister of the Interior to see if additional things are not needed to get a neighbourhood into the elevator rather than keep it in a downward spiral, where buildings are closed for longer periods. Finally, the mayor's position. He does a lot of good work in many places, just at this point. The office is under pressure, more and more so. My fear is that it has an effect on the growth of new mayors and also on the mayors who sit. It's a tough life if you have to live under security. I hope that the Minister, together with the Minister for the Interior, will keep this under review in the plan of attack. What effects does undermining have on our mayors? We trust them to respond to Mr Schouwenaar's good thought, but let us keep them as strong as they are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u94	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I can see from the Minister's non-verbal communication that he has the opportunity to respond directly, but there is no Chamberkeeper. Check it out. Chamberkeeper's coming in with the coke for the minister and the microphone. Then it's gonna work. We have arrived at the second term from the Minister's side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u95	Mr. Chairman. I'll go through it quickly and finally discuss the motion. I thought I heard a bit of a chord about this Diet Coke, but I am more concerned, in the context of the prevention agreement, about the fact that you have a Guardian's back burdened in this way. I will reply quickly to each Member of Parliament, because I think that is most appreciated. I continue to say to Mr Dercksen that the cabinet has now made serious efforts to do so. I haven't even mentioned all the funds that are also being released for dealing with cybercrime and the like. There is clear structural reinforcement of the police and a structural amount for undermining, as well as the one-off fund. Those are really big steps. We will see what more can be done in the near future. Mrs Andriessen had some very good points which I shall discuss later. There's something I'd like to say first. I had understood the question about ecstasy as a rhetorical question, but I would like to say out loud that I believe that ecstasy, which appears on list 1 of the Opium Act, does not qualify for an atmosphere of judicial tolerance. I'm not going to turn it on very sharply in this setting. It's obviously a synthetic drug listed on list 1. Mrs Andriessen has a point that I might wrongly give the impression that Brabant is producing for Amsterdam. The point is that the Dutch synthetic drug industry produces for the whole world. I said that out loud in an interview. I find it very funny when a television presenter makes a joke about international treaties, but I take them seriously. In this context too, regardless of the fact that it is listed in List 1, we have our international obligations to ensure a proper legal order. I think it is right for Mrs Andriessen to stress once again the position of mayors. I would also like to have said out loud that this is one of my main concerns. At the moment, we are in a situation where mayors, but also prosecutors and so on, come into this threatening atmosphere. I continue to oppose the image that we have here, as some outside the Chamber have suggested, a narcostat. We have a rule of law. You address me and I am responsible not only for security, crime fighting, but also for justice and life. This is a determining factor for the rule of law and we must stick to it. I can recommend the book of Narconomics to anyone, because that sketches what happens when you come near a narcostate, as is the case in some countries on the other side of the ocean. Then there is another point by Mrs Andriessen, namely the new powers of the mayor. I said it at the beginning, and I repeat: we must take care of our state system. That is why I raised the point of Mr Schouwenaar's trias politician. In this context, we must also look at how society is developing. If Mrs Andriessen and I had met as scientists in the 1980s, we would not have been able to imagine the prediction that in 2006 Parliament would include Article 13b in the Opium Act, on the basis of which mayors could shut down drug houses. So we will always have to look at this dynamic. Those are many issues in Mrs Andriessen's maiden speech which I have addressed, so I should like to leave it at that. I'll come to Mrs. Wezel. It is a pity that she is not getting more enthusiastic, but I am now addressing Mrs Strik too in a good way in how this law works, as it is now, but also in the future. Mrs Strik said that, in addition to trust, there must be safeguards and control. That confidence lies in the way we appoint our local directors. They shall also be reviewed before they are appointed. It also applies to the way in which they have democratic control and how well it works in our country. The guarantees are contained in the detailed procedure and its justification. The mayor really needs to motivate, because you know what the board judge's like. Then the mayor's just gonna be sent back. Control, that's our board judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u96	There's a difference in the application with the Participation Act. There are a lot of possible provisions in this legislation. That's what makes it so hard to get hold of. It's all written out in the Participation Act. The mayor can close this legislation, but he can't close it either. He can write a lot of papers, but it's impossible for a citizen to test. That's why you have to go to court. It looks at the policies, but the way the legislation is drafted, because it is all possible provisions, makes it very difficult. That is also what the scientists are referring to, because it is not specified, for example when it comes to trading stocks, or because it is not clear when or when to close. That would give you a certain legal uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u97	For hard drugs 0.5 grams is a trade quantity and for soft drugs more than five plants. So that's just objectified. The case-law applies these minimum quantities to the question of the existence of trade. Then proof is still possible. I have discussed this in more detail in the House of Representatives when it comes to the fact that mayors often do not apply Article 13b in its present form, especially in the context of the proportionality weighting. Mrs Wezel wanted a commitment on the transmission of information, but I have also read the article that has been referred to several times now. I explained that the article also shows the number of closures that would be estimated per year. I have concluded from this that in the vast majority of cases these closures remain entirely intact. I then said that I think that we should come up with a more focused monitor over the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u98	I assume that the Minister refers to Mrs Bruijn's article, in which she refers to published statements, but the housing corporations know exactly how many closures have taken place because that information is known to them. I wonder why the Ministry isn't aware of how many closures we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u99	There's no exact information on the numbers. I referred to Mrs Bruijn's very plausible calculation of the number of closures per year. I now come to Mrs Wezel's motion. I'd advise against it. Mrs Bikker's investigation has rightly pointed this out, and it is very useful when it comes to improving decision-making practice, in this case in the case of mayors. We have almost agreed in the House of Representatives that we will set up a monitor to focus on the present and the coming years. I have promised Mrs Vlietstra that I am going to take up the issue of the blacklist and how we can move forward with the housing corporations with the Home Secretary, of course with her on the steering wheel, and I am going to be in the sidecar. I made the promise here. I see, Mr President, that you prefer not to have that image for you, but I'm going to get in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u100	A beautiful image, because I see you with such a leather helper with those flaps waving so back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u101	But it's a recognizable helmet, because otherwise I won't be able to get into the public buildings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u102	An integral helmet, I can hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u103	Yes, that is also the integrated policy that we are committed to undermining. It includes an integral helmet. I'll come to a conclusion. Mrs Strik's questions about the weed experiment are to be passed on to when we are going to deal with the experiment and that law. I say to Mrs Vlietstra that I am going to do everything I can to get the experimental law through the Lower House as soon as possible and to get it to the Upper House so that we can have a good debate on it. As far as Mr Bruins is concerned, too, it is important that we get to work on the experiment as quickly as possible. Mrs Strik and I differ on what is currently possible for mayors and what is desirable. The example of the 2,000 litres of hydrochloric acid I mentioned comes from practice. There are also many other substances conceivable that may not be so easy for me to say in terms of chemical formula and all kinds of other things, but they are ultimately about the building in question. I have sketched the picture of a building from a row of houses in Eindhoven where, in the eyes of the local residents, threatening activities take place in the area of the preparation of drug production and drug trafficking. Once again, the power given to the mayor here is very well-balanced, with a very sharp accountability process. I have every confidence in our local government, in the sense that they will be handled carefully. I think the safeguards are right and the control by our Dutch judge, which shows Mrs Bruijn's investigation is working. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna see if I'm not running out of one of your members, but I think I've handled everything. I want to leave it at that in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u105	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? I see a little nod and a hand up, so that's the case. I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the bill and the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-9.u106	I'm suspending the dinner break meeting until 7:30.
