ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-2.u1	We begin with Mrs Kuik's question on behalf of the CDA to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, whom I would also like to welcome, about forced work by Dutch girls in a Belgian brothel. I call Mrs Kuik on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For €50, a 17-year-old girl is offered as a prostitute by human traffickers. The girl has to earn €1,000 a day; so twenty times a day is raped. This is an example of a girl who's a victim of pimp boys. Aid organisation Terre des Hommes indicates that pimps already force teenagers into prostitution within a day. This form of exploitation has taken off over the last two years. Traffickers use the Internet as a means of power and recruit in new ways, via social media: sextortion. Within a day, vulnerable teenagers end up in prostitution. To what extent do the government and the police offer a modern counterweight to this? The digital possibilities could be used as strong instruments as the warriors of human traffickers. Is there any focus on innovation on the fight side? Mr. Chairman. The article also states that teenagers are being used in Belgium, to further isolate the victim from her family, but also because there is less supervision in Belgium. Does the Secretary of State see this problem as well? If so, how can we deal with this? 'Cause if there's no surveillance, you can't find anything, and you can't help teenagers. 89% of teenagers who are victims of sexual exploitation are not visible. Then we'll make it easy for the human traffickers if they don't check it out. Finally, Mr President. These are particularly vulnerable teenagers. How does the Secretary of State deal with the prevention of vulnerable teenagers in health care institutions, for example? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to Mrs Kuik for raising these questions. Trafficking in human beings, including the loverboy issue, is a very serious crime, breaking into one of the most fundamental human rights, namely your own, individual freedom. In her introduction, Mrs Kuik made it very clear how repulsive human traffickers operate. Addressing trafficking in human beings is therefore a priority of this cabinet. As promised earlier to your Chamber, there will be a comprehensive approach to many facets of trafficking in human beings in the short term. Mrs Kuik is right to say that it is cross-border. Mrs Kuik asked if there would be less supervision in Belgium. I think this may have been the case, but Belgium is catching up very quickly. Of course, we work together across borders in joint investigation teams. There are also other international projects to deal with perpetrators. Recently a project has been completed, CONFINE, in which the Netherlands and Belgium, supported by the universities of Tilburg and Leuven and a number of cities, have looked at how to improve the cross-border approach. The results will be published before the end of the year. This leads, among other things, to us starting at the beginning of next year with a euregional RIEC, a Regional Information and Expertise Centre, precisely to exchange all that information across borders and to ensure that we are not hindered in the detection of perpetrators who operate cross-border. The other question was whether there is innovation with the police, because supply and demand are created on the Internet. Yes, several regions of the police use what is called a "webcrawler" to search every corner of the Internet for advertisements that offer this prostitution and then to track down the perpetrators as well. Mrs Kuik rightly states that these are often vulnerable teenagers. The article says that sometimes it takes place within 24 hours. So prevention and information are very much needed. It has already been pointed out to the Chamber that there is a multitude of measures that we are also using, in particular, in youth care institutions and in places where we have a lot to do with vulnerable young people. It takes, I think, too far to list them all here, but they all find a place in the plan of action that is very soon to appear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-2.u5	It is good to hear that there has been contact with Belgium and that extra efforts are being made. Of course, it's the white spots that the human traffickers are putting on. They will focus on situations where there is no supervision. We also have a task there when it comes to the Netherlands and the municipalities which do not yet have a good human trafficking approach. I wonder if the Secretary of State can comment on the role of Terre des Hommes. We can see that this aid organisation is now condemning this. To what extent can we give this organisation more room for this? Apparently, that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-2.u6	Before I make any statements about one specific aid organisation, it is good that Terre des Hommes calls attention to this problem. We work with numerous aid organisations. So I cannot say whether we are going to continue specifically with Terre des Hommes. We are involved with numerous aid organisations. But the most important thing is: where we saw that the cross-border approach needs to be improved, we also shape it and I also saw a great deal of commitment at the meeting in Antwerp, both from the Belgian Government and from various mayors of large Belgian cities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-2.u7	Finally. Can we also see the moments of control of this, so that we can actually see what has happened? Now it's something that comes up, also thanks to an aid organization that reports it. To what extent can you also link this back to us in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-2.u8	In the short term, it will start publishing the plan of action. I have already agreed in the AA at the end of September that I will regularly update the Chamber on its results. That's what we're gonna do. We will also specifically take this cross-border approach into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-2.u9	The Secretary of State is selling nonsense here when he claims that the approach to loverboys is a priority of the cabinet. His colleague, the Minister for Legal Protection, recently confirmed to me twice that at the time of mass immigration in 2015 and 2016, the money and attention for dealing with loverboys have been shifted to tackling trafficking in human beings in the asylum influx. It is therefore the greatest possible nonsense that it is a priority of the cabinet. I tabled an own-initiative proposal in 2008 to raise the age of prostitution to 21 years. That proposal was adopted by the House of Representatives. So that's been on the shelf for ten years. When can we expect that prostitution age to be increased to 21 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-2.u10	What Mrs Agema points out has also been reported to the Chamber before. Three years ago, at the time of the high influx, there was a police deployment. This is without prejudice to the fact that a strengthened approach is a priority for this cabinet, that the occupation of the AVIM, the police unit involved in the fight against trafficking in human beings, is now in order and that, apart from that, a whole range of other actions are being launched. It's not just the AVIM within the police that has to signal this. For example, we are now also investing in training all primary police officers to identify signs of trafficking in human beings, so that the specialist detectives can get to work afterwards. Mrs Agema asked another question about prostitution legislation. It is about an amendment to the law on prostitution, which I hope will be consulted this year, with the adjustments we have provided for in the government agreement. Then that amended law will come to the Chamber in the course of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-2.u11	Trafficking in human beings is a horrible crime. It's a form of slavery. We therefore have the task of protecting victims and catching perpetrators. But do we succeed in the latter? Today, I received the information from experts that we are hardly picking up human traffickers compared to the countries around us, while the problem is obvious in the Netherlands. We have a big problem in the Netherlands. So the pressing question to the Secretary of State is: does he recognise that the teams of human trafficking in the police are actually too small and is additional capacity in the police part of the long-awaited plan of action? The appearance of the plan takes a very long time. Are there any additional detectives coming to fight this terrible form of human trafficking more effectively?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mr Van Nispen's first question is whether I accept it. I have just indicated and already mentioned that a few years ago the occupation was under pressure, but that the occupation is now in order. This will also enable us to act more vigorously in the fight against trafficking in human beings. The reason why the plan of action is later, I have also reported to the Chamber before. It appears before the budget debate, so this month. The reason for the later appearance was that I wanted to make an attempt with all the parties involved, either in the fight against trafficking in human beings or in the reception of victims, to make a real effort, so that we are going to do exactly what they need in the field instead of simply rolling down a plan from the ivory tower from The Hague. The latter succeeded. Very soon we will report to the Chamber what that looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-2.u13	It is a form of human trafficking, of modern slavery, which is truly repulsive. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dus we kunnen niet anders dan opkomen voor de slachtoffers, maar daar schieten we in tekort.]] We have no choice but to punish perpetrators. We're failing in that, too. But there are other actors. There are customers, too. What are we doing to discourage customers and to point out to them that it is a crime for them to abuse a minor child because that is what this is about and that they are punishable? We need to be much clearer about this. We need to make it much clearer that this is a criminal offence. But it is also about web site administrators, people who make this possible, who facilitate this, who create this offer and make it clear to the customers. How can we remind these actors, alongside the perpetrators and victims, whom we must punish and protect, of their responsibilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-2.u14	I confirm what Mr Segers says: using underage prostitutes is simply criminal. It is a criminal offence, and we must fight it along that road alone. Mr Segers is right to draw attention to the fact that there are many other actors around it, including website providers. That is why I have just said, in reply to Mrs Kuik, that there too, there is no mention of innovation in the police force, and that she is deconstructing the Internet, the dark web, everything, in search of these people who give that opportunity and who then need to be dealt with. The last part of the answer is that, in the context of reinforced prostitution legislation, we are also going to give a place to the pimp ban contained in the government agreement. This will provide an additional tool to deal with these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-2.u15	We want the pimps, the men who seduce and exploit young girls, often underage girls, who force them to sell their bodies for money, to be caught. But the only way we can catch these guys is if we know who they are. It often helps when the girls press charges. Can the Secretary of State give me a concrete undertaking that he will make an effort to ensure that these girls can file a report in a trusted environment? Maybe somewhere other than the police station. Maybe just at home or at a shelter. For example, we are doing everything we can to get victims to actually speak and to get those pimps seriously behind bars.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-2.u16	I very much agree with what Mr Van Oosten has said. I agree that these victims should have the opportunity to report easily. There is one step for this: sometimes we need to convince people that they are actually victims. There too, we have a world to win. I can easily make that commitment, because we are already putting into practice exactly the examples you give. At the same time, victims cannot report to the Agency alone. They can do that on the Internet or by phone, or by a cop on the street if they're in distress. The victim's home and various places in the neighborhood can also be reported. It is up to us to raise even more awareness of these different possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-2.u17	Thank you. Then we wait for the Minister of Justice and Security for the next question.
