ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the infrastructure and water resources budget. We're working on the first term on the side of the Chamber. Once again, welcome to the leaders, to the MPs and to the people in the public gallery and to those who follow this debate in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u2	I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Kröger, who speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u3	Mr President, before I begin my speech, I would like to raise a point of order about the fact that we have asked a great many questions about the ILT and the multiannual plan but that the answers have not yet been sent to the Chamber, and I believe that the committee really intended to have them for this debate. So I note that I have not been able to involve them in my input, which was the intention. I think that as a committee we will have to decide how to deal with these questions, if we cannot do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u4	I understand the answers are coming to the Chamber this afternoon, but you are making the point. I think it will then be up to the committee to assess at a procedural meeting how far the written questions that have been asked are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u5	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u6	May I invite you to begin your speech in the first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u7	Mr. Chairman. Whether it is Schiphol, the automotive industry, the polluting chemists or the waste cowboys, companies are being kept out of the wind in our environmental policy. This is at the expense of nature, our health and the quality of life of people throughout the Netherlands. If we really want to move towards a climate-neutral, circular and poison-free society, that is what I believe we all want to do, then as a government we must be prepared to intervene more often, to regulate and, above all, to enforce. Clean air, soil, water and nature: that is public wealth for all of us and we must actively protect it. I would like to raise three points in this debate today: aviation, a multi-stakeholder approach to environmental criminals and mobility. I'll start with aviation. The debate on aviation has been tilted over the past year. I think we can all see that. The growth of Schiphol and regional airports is under considerable debate. For years, the interests of man and the environment were subordinated to the growth of aviation. Next year we will face a number of major decisions: Lelystad Airport, Schiphol Airport and the Aviation Note. And then the question is: are we going on the path of hopeless growth, or are we going to opt for aviation within the limits of the climate and a healthy living environment? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is clear that aviation cannot continue to grow if we take the climate and health of local residents seriously. The health effects of ultra-fine dust are now being investigated. We expect the first results soon. But aviation also contributes strongly to the concentration of nitrogen dioxide. We, the Netherlands, have just received a strong blow from Europe about our nitrogen policy. My question is, in fact, whether the Minister can already respond to the implications this may have for the plans for airports Lelystad Airport and Eindhoven. What scenarios should we develop for this? And what does this do especially for those flights, the low-fly routes above the Natura 2000 sites, which are planned from Lelystad Airport? A question is also asked: it is actually a request for a commitment to include the Minister's aviation emissions in the State Secretary's Clean Air Agreement. I asked the Secretary of State earlier, but she referred me to the Minister. That's why. Then sound. The new WHO advisory values are very much stricter than what is currently being used in the Netherlands. How does the Minister respond to this advice? We, the Netherlands, are pursuing the WHO air quality advisory values. I expect that we will do the same for sound. Will this include the use of the Minister's policy in the Aviation Paper 2020-2050? Then the experience flight. I think that no aircraft in the Netherlands has been monitored and monitored as well as that glorious experience flight. And then the minister needed five months to let the Chamber know that the extreme noise peaks of the experience flight fall within the margins of the model. What shockes me, then, is that the Minister writes that the model calculations are systematically lower than the measurements. It almost seemed as if the minister himself was shocked. Isn't that a logical conclusion that the model in force is not satisfactory? In response to the parliamentary questions that we asked together with five other parties, she acknowledges that measurement is necessary and that the model is actually inadequate, but she does not want to draw any conclusions. After all, everything goes according to the rules. This is exactly what can't be explained to residents of five provinces who are now concerned about the plans for Lelystad Airport. The Minister admits that noise pollution will be far more than calculated and expects people to accept it. No, they're not. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this once again calls into question the EIA. I would therefore ask the Minister to ask the Commission for the m.e.r. formal request for advice. Is the model used sufficiently accurate to assess the environmental impact as the practice is structuralally different? And could Doc29, which is still not ideal but at least better, as the minister writes, not have been better used? Why should this calculation model not yet be used for regional airports? That is the intention in the future. Can't we speed that up so we just have insight and at least work with the best possible model? As in the case of car emissions, we now base our aviation policy mainly on data coming from the industry itself. And like the shuffle diesel, we have to be very critical of this ourselves. An adequate system to validate and calibrate models based on measurements is an important step to restore confidence. I think this applies both to the residents of Lelystad and to those of Schiphol and other regional airports. I expect the Minister to come up with a plan on this very soon. It seems to me that until then we really need to make a pass on the spot. However, the really difficult point remains, of course, the growth of aviation, as also the PBL concluded last week in the session on the climate agreement with the I&W Committee. If we take climate change seriously, we cannot further facilitate the growth of aviation. Proponents of growth then argue that the demand for airline tickets continues to increase, and that is true. But that question is driven by far too cheap tickets. GroenLinks wants to get rid of those ploftickets. Ploftickets: €19 to Barcelona. It should not be possible and measures are needed for this. First of all, the ticket tax. GroenLinks finds it very positive that this cabinet is working on the ticket tax. But then we'll have to use him smartly. At the moment, it seems to be mainly a measure to raise 200 million for the state budget, while the policy objective should be at the forefront. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this policy objective is to reduce the climate impact of aviation and stimulate the cleanest and quietest techniques and actively discourage unnecessary flights and transfers. This means that the tax must be related both to the type of aircraft and to the destination. Loading emissions per kilometer could be a way in which you load short flights that are easier to replace relatively heavier or, better still, per liter of kerosene. My request to the Minister: can she make a proposal with the Secretary of State for Finance for these policy objectives and discuss this with us as a Chamber? And can we also see that we are not going to be below those German rates? Because why would we only ask for €3.85, which is double in Germany? A second point in the approach to ploftickets is the strict enforcement of Dutch labour law. It is really bizarre that the situation with Ryanair has gotten so out of hand. A prize fighter who invents the scarce space with stunt prices at the expense of the staff. The House, in particular my colleague Mr Laçin, has frequently called for this, and in fact the Minister has consistently referred back or to the Minister for Social Affairs. But that's too easy for me. If we are now going to review our aviation policy, we must also take very strict action against price fighters who price the price by exploiting their staff. This should also be part of our aviation policy. I would very much like to be given the undertaking that the working conditions of other airlines will also be examined and monitored.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u8	A question from Mrs Dik-Faber. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u9	I have a question for my colleague from GroenLinks. The Christian Union wholeheartedly agrees that the policy objectives must be at the heart of this and that we must also be fair in taxing pollution. For us, however, it is also important that the Tax Administration should be able to carry out a number of things. Does it also apply to GroenLinks that we give them both assignments to the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u10	Sure. It seems very important to me that if we propose a tax, the Tax Administration can also implement it. I would think that's obvious in policy we're making.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u11	There will be another question from Mrs Van Brenn. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u12	I'm curious about the flight tax. In my contribution, I will return to it as well. Would it also be possible for GroenLinks to use this tax to promote international rail traffic? That seems a lot more useful to us than simply transferring it to the treasury. How's GroenLinks in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u13	I think it is very important that we set up this ticket tax smartly, precisely in order to get maximum competition with the train at distances that you can easily travel by train. That is why we say: look at emissions per kilometre, for example. I think Mrs Van Brenk is referring more to the idea that you then allocate the proceeds to a particular purpose. We are less in favour of this. It is almost at odds with the question put by the colleague of the Christian Union. It makes it very difficult in the budget for you to re-use one levy precisely for the next use. You'll get all kinds of lines. In my view, it is very important to recognise that if we really want to make international rail transport a serious competitor, we need to invest heavily in it. I will also mention this in my contribution to the debate that is taking place at my initiative in December. That's definitely important. Then the 200 million was taken very nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u14	I very much agree with Mrs Kröger's plea about Ryanair and its approach. I have a question about the flight tax. It will be introduced by this cabinet if a number of other measures do not succeed. With regard to the arrangement of the flight tax, we have the following. First of all, we think that we should not hunt people to other countries. But we also think that the group of people who work hard and save and who can go on vacation once a year is not the group that we need to catch, to put it bluntly with the flight tax. Could GroenLinks in the context of 'polluter pays' also consider the idea that we tax the business traveller who flies 20, 30, 40 times a year or a director who very often flies to a summer cottage in southern Spain, and that we are not going to hit the people who have little to spend and who have difficulty on holiday with the flight tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u15	Mr Laçin is now on a thinking path where we are going to mix income policy and such an environmental tax. Well, that seems like a real pain in the ass. Then I'm going to go along with the question of the Christian Union: how would you imagine it? 40% of flights in the Netherlands are made by 8% of people. So in practice, people who fly a lot will pollute a lot. So when you look at CO emissions per kilometre, they also have to pay a lot. I don't quite see that you could differentiate in the type of trip someone makes: a business flight or a holiday flight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u16	There is another question from Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u17	In addition, we are not necessarily concerned with the type of traveler but with the type of traveler. The traveller who can go on holiday once a year will, of course, pay less on balance, but I do not think we should exclude him from the plane. I think that we should tax the 8% that Mrs Kröger is talking about, so the group of people who fly business or private very often should tax most. Then we look not only at the number of kilometres, but also at the number of times someone flies. Let's go tax that, too. I don't have the execution sharp either, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u18	I think the principle of the 'polluter pays' is: the more you pollute, the more you pay. If companies allow their staff to fly continuously while skyping or making a conference call is really an alternative, then companies have to mark that in the prices they pay. Trials have been carried out with companies that have said: we are indeed going to actively discourage short-haul flights. Then you just see that the number of times skypen or the number of conference calls takes a flight and that there is no more flying. So I think there are a lot more things to do here that don't all have to be in the ticket tax. That is why I have previously proposed a kind of green deal, whereby as a government you actively agree with the largest companies in the Netherlands on their travel expenses policy. That could be a method.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u19	There is another question from Mr Dijkstra. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u20	It will be very expensive, especially for the people with a small wallet, if the plans of GroenLinks become true. Then such a ticket to southern Europe will be very expensive. The question I would like to ask is: what does Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks think of the following quote by a lecturer from the NHTV, Mr Paul Peeters, who has done research on trains and flights? He says: the people who vote GroenLinks are actually the people who use the plane most. How does Mrs Kröger view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u21	I must say quite frankly that I do not know exactly what Mr Dijkstra is asking for. I think we are saying very clearly: the polluter pays. That should be in all policies, including when flying. I think it is very striking to see that 40% of flights are operated by 8% of people. There are a lot of people in the Netherlands who do not fly and who also choose not to fly. I think it would be very good if we could all see that flying and the growth of aviation is absolutely impossible within the agreements we have for the climate and that we should seriously go to alternatives. We must make it attractive for people to be able to take the whole family by train to the south of France. Unfortunately, that is relatively expensive at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u22	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u23	The last thing at this point, about the ploftickets. On the one hand, we have a ticket tax and, on the other hand, strict enforcement of labour law. Thirdly, I would also like to ask whether it is possible to investigate whether we can act against airlines offering tickets below cost. It's basically dumping prices, disrupting the market and fueling the demand for airline tickets. Tickets are offered for €9.99: that is not possible. What are the possibilities of taking action against this in the context of anti-dumping measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u24	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u25	What does Mrs Kröger mean by the cost? The other day, I was triggered. There is always talk of low prices. Of course, that's good to keep flying accessible to families as well. But I think Mr Paternotte tweeted: to France ten minutes away. I thought, "Hey, that's interesting, a tenner." I was just gonna take a closer look. If you go there, you have to come back. But the way back was €300. Of course, there's a earning model in there. If you are talking about the cost, are you talking about the cost of an individual ticket, or are you talking about the cost, what such a plane can cost when it goes to Marseille and back? That's very important to know. You pay a tenner back and $300 back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u26	I believe that Mr Paternotte is being tempted to react, but perhaps he will be able to express this in an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u27	Mrs. Kröger first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u28	In my view, it is indeed a question of airlines luring passengers and driving the market with tickets below cost. I think we really need to look at companies that do this structuralally. A Ryanair does so at the expense of its employees. We really need to look at how we can deal with this and whether we can act against it if a company offers a type of dumping price on a structural basis. Exactly how you do that is interesting. What's the cost of that? I think we need to find out. Actually, I'd like the Minister to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u29	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u30	If we really want to get people off the plane for a short distance, then we also need to make sure that the alternative is attractive, as I said earlier. It has been said before: competing on price, time and convenience. At my request, we will have a separate debate on this shortly. I'm really looking forward to that. I also hope to hear before the debate how my motion on connection to the European night network is being implemented. As far as I am concerned, it is really high time that international rail traffic became a real priority in our policy. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State whether the international rail system can also become part of the policy priorities for the NS for the coming year. Can this then also be anchored in a programme within the concession? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then there is an entirely different subject: environmental crime. There are companies that are constantly falling apart and are burdening society with enormous environmental damage and costs. GroenLinks wants a much harder approach to this type of polluting repeaters, from big players like Chemours, which we have talked about too often here, to an artificial grass recycler like TUF, which went up in flames. In recent years considerable savings have been made on the inspection and many powers have been delegated to municipalities and provinces, where the knowledge and capacity are often lacking. The Environment Act only makes these issues even more acute. Governments also seem afraid that companies will eventually go bankrupt and that the costs will end up with them. The Vink company in Gelderland was able to operate under a tolerance structure for years and now it appears that it has deposited tons of contaminated land at the site of a new residential area. GroenLinks wants a multi-stakeholder approach based on "polluter pays" once again. Companies that go into the mist time and time again are getting higher fines. If it goes wrong in a row, a permit may also be revoked. It's a variant on three strikes you're out. Authorisations must all be digitised, making enforcement much easier and more cost-effective. Control and enforcement actions are also made digitally transparent, so that different services and authorities know from each other who is doing what. The costs of such enforcement should be recovered from the applicant for the environmental permit. This could, for example, be done through the fees on environmental permits. We therefore want to include the costs of regular enforcement and not just the costs of issuing a licence. This makes permits for companies that repeatedly violate environmental rules and activities that require a high level of enforcement capacity relatively more expensive. It should also be possible for companies to be more financially liable for the pollution they have caused, for example for the additional costs that water companies incur for filtering and cleaning our drinking water. We had an arrangement whereby companies had to have the cost of cleaning up a potential accident in cash. That law could just come back. I'm glad the Secretary of State announced this morning that he was working hard on this. I therefore urge her to make this part of a multi-stakeholder approach, in which precisely those companies that go wrong time and time again can be held financially responsible. I hope that the Secretary of State will undertake such a multi-stakeholder approach here today. Our environmental policy is as good as it is maintained. And that's where things go wrong all the time. Our inspections have been severely cut back and the risk-oriented approach seems to mean that the ILT can do less and less. The inspection describes its own role as: the ears and eyes of the minister. But that crucial role is difficult to maintain if the tasks continue to accumulate. In the debate on the Stint we saw that the ILT did not play this role at all. But also at Chemours, TUF and Schiphol, the ILT is constantly coming out that it is not able to fulfil its role. In the debate, the Secretary of State referred to the system of risk-driven approaches. We'd love to get a second opinion on that. I read that approach well, and I thought it was a worrying story. In a rapidly changing market and society, it is incredibly important for the inspection to be able to identify potential risks and call on the Ministry, as we saw at the Stint. Does the Minister share my view that there is not enough room for this and does she support my call that the General Court should investigate whether the current capacity and approach of the ILT is in line with the tasks and objectives of the public inspection? I am also considering an amendment to reverse the cuts in the ILT. Finally, our mobility policy. Over the past few weeks there has been a lot of news about traffic jams and also the figures of the KiM have been announced, showing that the use of the train has increased much more than the use of the car. Other figures show that less and less car kilometres per person are being driven in the Netherlands, and yet we continue to spend most of our infrastructure money on asphalt. "Fossil Thinking" I'd like to call it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u31	How many people are in the car every day and how many people are on the train every day?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u32	It is Mr Dijkstra's style that he makes this a school interview. I invite him to give the answers himself. I've seen the KiM's trend analyses, which show that rail traffic has grown by 21% since I said, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry." Car traffic has also grown, that's right, but much less hard and the number of people per car is declining in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u33	Mrs. Kröger needs to get a little out of her shooter's pit, I think. We see with each other that the task is enormous and that mobility is growing, over all modes of transport, whether that is the bike, the bus, the train or the car or whatever. But then you also have to see where that growth has the most effect. Does Mrs Kröger agree with me? Does it therefore make sense to look at how many travellers use a certain modality and how much they get in return for what they pay and what the cost per passenger kilometre is? Are those good starting points? Or does Mrs Kröger say: that's all nonsense, just invest blankly in the train, because with that... et cetera?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u34	I would like to outline the policy of this cabinet if that asphalt has always been on one side and has always been on one side among cabinets in which the VVD was in. This is no longer in line with reality, where you can see that rail traffic is growing much faster and that we have a huge challenge in terms of CO saving and ensuring air quality in the Netherlands. That air needs to be cleaner. I invite Mr Dijkstra to get out of his shooter's pit and to see how, if we already have those billions for infrastructure, we can best use them to achieve all these goals. I will continue my speech. I was at "fossil thinking." On accessibility, climate and air quality there is a huge challenge for this ministry. I fully agree with Mr Dijkstra. The Netherlands is closing down, particularly in and around the cities, and the aldermen of these cities are begging for investment in regional development. More asphalt means more cars, but they can't really get rid of them in the cities. There is also a considerable challenge to save CO from the Mobility Table. If we take a very critical look at all existing projects that have not yet been tendered, together with CO and air quality costs and benefits as criteria, will there not be better alternatives? As an example, I would like to mention a reduction in the speed limit, as proposed by my colleague Mr Jetten from D66 in the climate debate. For many traffic situations, the Jetten plan, as I am baptizing it here, is the best way to prevent both traffic congestion and increase safety and combat noise pollution. It is also a way of combating emissions of CO and air pollution. Then there is a concrete example that has already been mentioned, the very controversial project of the A27 at Amelisweerd. With a slightly lower speed on a short route and smart interventions within the existing bucket, this whole broadening is not necessary. Hundreds of millions we can save. It is better for the climate and for the health of living, there will be no years of construction nuisance and it is very, very cheaper. This money can then be invested in strengthening the regional government, which the municipalities and the province call for. In view of Europe's statements on the PAS, I really hope that we will take a very critical look at this A27. Hence this appeal: let us open up the MIRT funds and keep all irreversible projects under review. That is the direction the Minister and the Secretary of State want to take after 2030 anyway, so given the climate urgency that I think we all feel, or almost all of us, here in this Chamber: why not check the future for all infrastructure projects that have not yet been tendered? I'm about to finish, Mr. Chairman. I do not think it is fair to explain that, partly because of the increase in VAT, we are trying to get people out and out of the car in the context of climate and air quality policy. Does the Minister and the Secretary of State agree with GroenLinks? And can the Minister tell us how we can still prevent this rise in public transport prices? As far as we are concerned, the most logical step is, of course, to reverse this increase in VAT. On this morning's occasion, I must express my disappointment at the reaction to my motion on the HSL. We want a plan and then a role-sharing about who's gonna do what, and then the question is who's gonna pay what. Because she wants to avoid that last question, the Secretary of State actually says that she is not going to answer the first one either. Anyway, here's what I'm gonna get back to you at the AO MIRT. Mr President, I will conclude. I realize that both regiments face a great, great challenge and I hope they are there despite the fact that the environment is no longer in the Ministry's name both are aware that this ministry, our ministry, is perhaps the greenest ministry we have. Soil, air, water, poison, air quality, transport: the protection of our environment is, as far as I am concerned, the core task of this ministry and there is a lot of work to be done. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u35	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I would now like to give the floor to Mr von Martels, who is speaking on behalf of the CDA Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This too is going to be a co-production. With my colleague Mustafa Amhaouch you are going to go up and down the road and with me you are going to deal with the other modalities. I'll start with the last year. We can look back on a lot of things that have been set in motion. I refer to the work on the manifesto "Transport safety: a national priority" with the Mobility Alliance, the deployment of ERTMS, smart mobility and international rail transport. We see good first steps, but it is very important to move forward now. In the legislative consultation, we have been promised a complete understanding of the use of the EUR 2 billion that has been made available for catching up on infrastructure and accessibility. Thank you for that insight. That's what we need. From the Spring 2018 note, a structural under-exhaustment of 20 million euros has been committed to the budget. So, over the years, this is getting pretty good. An important question is whether we could also use it to cover amendments. I am thinking, for example, of Kornwerderzand, but there are more examples. Then the Dutch roads. We grumbling a lot about the traffic jams and the first three quarters of this year unfortunately resulted in no less than 20% more traffic jams. The most traffic jams were on the A27 from Utrecht to Breda, the A4 from Amsterdam to The Hague and the A58 from Breda to Eindhoven. You're gonna have to use that route every day for your work. Yet our road network is one of the best in the world. When it comes to quality, we are in third place, just behind Singapore and Switzerland, but for example Germany, Austria and England. Otherwise the score becomes when we look at the ease with which you come from A to B and the speed with which you reach your destination. That's where the Netherlands comes in a 24th place. So that bad ranking is due to the traffic jams. Large expansion of short-term capacity is not possible. Therefore, it is obvious to look at ways of making better use of available capacity. Among other things, technology can help us, but there are more examples to bring forward. Faster storage, also mentioned by the VVD, is an important point. I don't want to leave that unnamed. Last week's report from the KiM, the Knowledge Institute for Mobility Policy, does not exactly make us optimistic. The loss of travel time for road traffic will increase by 35% in 2023 compared to 2017. How did the Minister interpret this report? And what possibilities does she see to prevent this doomsday scenario? Then something about the trucks. Trucks form a large part of the traffic flow on a number of roads to Germany and Belgium. Trucks are slower due to the lower speed limit and are therefore an obstacle in traffic. Last year's ANWB membership panel identified this as the biggest problem for traffic jams. De Ruit van Rotterdam has a system of separate lanes for trucks. The CDA would like us to start with a more extensive pilot to set up separate lanes for freight on the major freight corridors. Those lanes should then also be used for rolling out truck platooning. I am thinking of major freight corridors such as the A1, the A15 and the A67. And at truck platooning drive two or three trucks at a very short distance from each other. The trucks are automated and communicate digitally with each other. As a result, the trucks can drive at a distance of 0.3 seconds from each other. TNO is doing research and there is a lot to gain from, as you might call it, this train of trucks: fuel savings, improved road safety and better traffic flow, which also means cost savings. Another question: what is the state of preparations for the introduction of the Maut for trucks and when can it be definitively introduced? We did get a piece on it yesterday, but I haven't been able to take them all. Safe truck spots. European rules should allow truck drivers to rest in safe places. The CDA would like to see a complete and cover-up plan, showing the exact demand for such secure parking spaces. In addition to the question, we want to see how the Minister will achieve the necessary places. The prospect of European money is being put forward. The more pragmatizing this question is. Environment. When it comes to the environment, the CDA would like to draw attention to a number of issues. Last May, a CDA motion was adopted asking the government to carry out an analysis of how to prevent high costs of clean-up from being borne by the government and thus by society. This question has already been raised by other speakers. So how do we ensure that companies do not just profit and leave society with environmental costs? I refer to the recent debates we have had on the pollution of lakes with contaminated sludge and the situation with the non-recycling of artificial turf mats, but Barneveld's example has already been highlighted. I would like to know from the Secretary of State about the implementation of the motion that we tabled together with D66 a few months ago, about the financial guarantee. At the same time, it is becoming clear to more and more people that we are moving towards a situation where we need to consume less and less natural gas. It seems that this makes many people consider switching to a wood or pellet stove. This can lead to serious health problems for neighbors due to the smoke. I would like to hear how the Secretary of State sees this development and what it intends to do with the concerns of these people. We have recently had the debate on asbestos remodelling. As far as we are concerned, good agreements have been made in the direction of the future. But one aspect is still bothering us and that is what has been said in the past that reorganisations in 2018 and 2019 would be eligible for a subsidy of €4.50 per square meter. But the subsidy pot appears to have reached the bottom more than fourteen months before the end of this period. That is a big deal for people who had already set up this incentive scheme. Within the framework of a reliable government, it is in my opinion and that of the CDA not to sell that the previously promised contribution of €4.50 per square meter should be seen more as an empty promise from now on. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the Secretary of State has a moral duty to find a solution. Victims of traffic. According to the ANWB, the number of motorway accidents increased by a quarter in the first half of 2018 compared to the same period a year earlier. In the first half of 2018 there were 12,800 accidents. That's 35 a day. What is worrying is that the number of accidents has grown harder than traffic. The increase fits into a very sad trend: since 2013 it has risen every year, we think. "We think" because there is no good registration. Only one in six serious road injuries is registered with the police, according to the Association of Traffic Victims. Measuring is knowing, so how can you make policy if you don't have the numbers in order? Soon we will be talking to the Minister about road safety: a national priority. A subject for which I would at least like to draw attention is the helmet duty. We believe that in everything that is motorized, and where you do not have to step yourself above 25 km/h, you should wear a helmet. So that means: also for the moustache bike. The Netherlands is an exception with regard to helmet duty in relation to all other European countries where a moustache bike occurs. A large number of doctors, SWOV and VVN also advocate it. In view of the number of serious accidents involving irreparable brain damage, a helmet duty should, as far as we are concerned, be mainly raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u37	Before you move on to another point, Mr Ziengs would like to take the floor, I assume, on an earlier point. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u38	That is quite right, because I fully agree with Mr von Martels when he says that helmet duty is also a primary obligation or an essential one; it fits well together. But I was concerned about the remark about the asbestos jar. I really heard you say that the Secretary of State apparently had a moral duty. We agreed that that asbestos pot could be used until it was run out and that it was intended to create acceleration. I have also said something about it in my speech, but not that the Secretary of State had a moral duty, because I think that Mr von Martels should also indicate what that moral duty is. If there's money on it, he'll have to tell us where the money's coming from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u39	It is quite clear that that jar is empty. That has been announced, but that was always linked to it: in 2018/2019 we are going to reward the people who have plans to clean up, so I say in quotes with that €4.50. So in that sense, I do think that we do have a moral duty, of course, because I deliberately mentioned that word because I do feel the same way too, to give all those people who have the intention to clean up the next few years or in 2019 the opportunity to be eligible for that subsidy. I would like to do that, and I appeal to the Secretary of State's creativity to come up with a solution. I'm not saying how to do that, but I think there are possibilities, so I'm asking and I'm very curious about the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u40	This is really a game of fried air. You call it a "moral duty" and then you say that the Secretary of State must show creativity. I also think that Mr von Martels should at the moment simply indicate where that money comes from and how we fill that pot. Then he should also indicate how you're going to slide into the budget and not come up with hot air.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u41	I am convinced that I never want to impose anything directly on rulers. I just want to give them the opportunity to think about that. I'd like to do a few more hand-outs, but for the moment, I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u42	I would like to touch on the issue of asbestos remodelling. I'm very happy with that moral duty, because I feel it, too. You can feel it too, but what if the Secretary of State says she doesn't feel it? Then what do you do with the moral duty you feel?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u43	I also have to look very carefully at where the financial resources are. After all, it is a question of financial resources that must be made available. Then where are the possibilities? But I also hope that openings will be offered to move 'creative' with funds to have the solution in place, to use the word again. If there is no such opening in this area, I hope that the answer given by the Secretary of State or the Minister shows that there are other possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u44	This sounds good. That's what I'm assuming. Suppose the Secretary of State didn't expect... I estimate she'll be creative, but if she's not, then Mr. von Martels will be. I like to think creatively with him, but I'm glad we're at least in it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u46	Mr von Martels, you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u47	I see the clock is at 22 seconds, but I assume the totality of time is decisive. That is at the expense of my colleague, but it also has a little less text.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u48	You have registered in the first period for eight minutes. You may indeed have time from your colleague...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u49	We have registered for a certain time and we make our own division in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u50	Twenty-two minutes in total. Otherwise, it's at the expense of a colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u51	Excuse me in advance, colleague! With regard to road safety, we also want the effectiveness of the EEA, the Alcohol Educational Measure, to be examined. Now it is true that when there is an alcohol level between 1 and 1.8, one is obliged to take the EEA course. For a novice driver and for those who have already attended an EEA course, the promillages are even more severe. Even if the police station has been refused to cooperate in a breath analysis or in the case of two arrests with lower blood levels, the EEA may be imposed. But is the EEA effective? What's the recidivism? Can it be better and more effective? Are there notorious drinkers who get the course four or five times but for whom it does not yet help? Now that the alcohol lock is no longer possible, we will still have to take other measures to stop the drunken drivers. One more topic, a completely different subject, namely the apk. I'm just gonna leave the bike. Cars with petrol engine get the first apk after four years and cars with diesel after three years. We find that amazing. Apparently it has to do with the assumption that diesel drivers travel more kilometres. Other countries rely on the mileage actually driven. That seems fairer to me. Can this be done in the Netherlands? Can the starting date for diesels and petrol cars be aligned and set to four years? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u52	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Amhaouch. Mr Amhaouch also speaks on behalf of the CDA group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u53	On this point, I would like to unsubscribe Mr von Martels for the second term on Thursday. Mr. Chairman. I'll continue with the railroad and aviation. First of all, the expertise. We saw at the beginning of the cabinet period that there was a lot of discussion about expertise in ministries. I ask the Secretary of State and the Minister about the knowledge and expertise within the Ministry of IenW in the field of aviation and rail. In the November 2017 letter, the Minister states that the workload is high and that the role of the government in the aviation dossier requires additional commitment and additional knowledge and skills. Much is happening in these two areas and it is becoming more international, more technical and more complex. What's settled now, we ask the Minister. What is going well and what can and should be done better? What plans do the Minister and the Secretary of State have ahead of us? Has this been taken into account in the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u54	Mr Amhaouch talked about expertise. Then of course I have to come back to his review of my tweets when he addressed Mrs Kröger. I have indeed said that I think a €10 flight ticket for Eindhoven-Athens is a flying kilo-blaster. Mr Amhaouch said that the return flight would cost €300. That must be because Mr Amhaouch only looked for business class tickets, because my idea was to fly back from Athens to Eindhoven for €17 on 15 December. You'll be up and down for $27. Is Mr Amhaouch prepared to look at economy class tickets as well? Does he think this is a normal price for a plane ticket?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u55	I think there's a class difference here. I think Mr Paternotte is flying alone with the KLM. I fly regularly with Ryanair and I have never seen a business class at Ryanair. I only assumed what you tweeted: €10 gone. The cheapest flight back is €274. You can add up to €300 with an extra briefcase. I don't know any business class at Ryanair, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u56	The next question, Mr Paternotte. No? Mr Amhaouch then continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u57	There's always class difference, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Here's what I'm gonna do. Other colleagues have already mentioned it: other sources of money, investments or financing. The Second Maasvlakte and the Westerschelde tunnel were largely achieved with private financing or investment. The Empire brought in equity capital, had control as shareholder and made a reasonable return. The CDA believes that we should re-examine the opportunities of private funding in full. The Netherlands is facing major mobility issues for the future. In our view, these cannot only be answered by means of means of wealth, because then we will be overtaken by reality. VNO-NCW recently suggested that a few concrete proposals should be drawn up. They mention new fast rail connections to Germany, for example, and better international connections to the Brainport Eindhoven. Also every ten minutes a train is called, as is fast light rail connections in the Randstad. The CDA wants the Minister to finance more projects with private capital or to bring in investments, for example from Dutch pension funds. Especially in public transport there are opportunities because a ticket can be part of the financing. That's what we can do for accelerations. Would the Minister like to take a broad look at that? There's got to be a way out of this, right? How far have the Minister and the Secretary of State come with these investigations, should they have started? Or are we waiting for our backs against the wall and making our public infrastructure dependent on, for example, the Chinese, as they already do in many other countries? Do they want to involve the provinces in this? Money from provinces can be well spent and invested in infrastructure. That's better than leaving the money in the bank account. We are also curious to see where the money from the broad target benefit was left when it was transferred from the urban regions to the provinces. Will the Minister investigate that? Mr. Chairman. Let me turn to the next point. The CDA wants the hyperspits in public transport to be reduced. This can be done by adjusting college and school hours. The University of Arnhem and Nijmegen (HAN) and Radboud University have, after joint research with among others the NS adapted the lecture times to reduce the rush on and around the campus in Nijmegen. Since 3 September 2018, very recently, the first lecture-hour starts at HAN, both in Nijmegen and in Arnhem, at 9.00 a.m. instead of 8.45 a.m. Fifteen minutes later. By adjusting these lecture times, the number of passengers in Nijmegen is expected to decrease by about 27% on the bus at 8.20 hours during the hyperspits, by about 19% on the train and even by 19% on bicycle paths. There are 42,000 students studying on campus in Nijmegen. The first results will soon be expected. So a quarter of an hour later, 20% less students. Will the Minister embrace this plan and roll out this strategy with all colleges and universities? We're considering a motion. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to cross-border rail transport. We are getting signals that ERTMS is really being done differently in Belgium than in the Netherlands. We want the huge investments we make in the Netherlands to really fit in with our neighbouring countries on all fronts. It is pointless if the railway does not connect in Belgium and Germany. It is already the case that Belgium does not approve Dutch trains until Liège because the trains do not yet have ERTMS. According to the EU directive, this is not necessary, but Belgium is making a high demand. The amazing thing is that the Belgian trains themselves are not fully equipped with ERTMS and even have no ATB, whereas this is a Dutch requirement for trains. Is it true that we give the Belgians an exception and allow Belgian trains without ATB, while the Belgians do not allow our trains without ERTMS? In my view, the Belgians do not even have ERTMS operational yet. I'd like a reflection from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Then there's alternatives. After traditional bus transport, rail is the most expensive subsidised public transport by passenger. If you take the numbers of CE Delft and its derivatives, for example, you could charge around €0.40 per passenger per kilometre on the bus and even €0.26 per passenger per kilometre on the train. The CDA wants us to experiment more with fast, modern electric express bus connections on special asphalt or target lanes instead of expensive rails, overhead lines and equipment. We are not even talking about ERTMS costs. There are good examples of the Zuidtangent between Haarlem, Hoofddorp, Schiphol and Amsterdam-Zuidoost. Will the Minister investigate this, for example at Utrecht-Breda? That's where that A27 comes in. This could also be done in regional transport concessions in the provinces to connect major nodes. Together with the current potential in rail corridor capacities, we can add much more value to the infrastructure in the Netherlands for the same euro. It is cheaper, more reliable, more environmentally friendly and more flexible. If this is a real alternative, aren't we crazy if we don't do this? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a point that many thousands of people find annoying every year in the winter period. Last year, the nationwide thinned schedule, the U.S.U.D., didn't work well. The undressed timetable was used a few times, but led to large parts of the country really being unreachable. Each year thousands of travellers are hit by the leaves on the track or the changes in winter weather conditions. Important nodes in the Netherlands are no longer accessible. The Secretary of State recently indicated in an AO that both ProRail and the NS are ready for winter. Can it explain why it is convinced that travellers will be able to get home safely this winter? Have all of Locov's recommendations been taken on board? Finally, Schiphol. What about the flight safety around Schiphol Airport and the implementation of the advice of the OVV? Recently, the aviation sector came up with a road map Safety Improvement Schiphol. Can the Minister reflect on this and state clearly what the tasks and responsibilities of the Empire itself are? And what are the most important results we want to achieve up to 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u58	Thank you. That is correct within the time limit, but I can see that you have a few more minutes left. First of all, Mr Laçin has a question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u59	Mr Amhaouch mentioned Schiphol. We are also curious about the plans. We have been waiting a long time for the folder of Schiphol, which has been postponed a number of times; I will come back to that in my report. My curiosity concerns Lelystad Airport. A motion has been passed at the CDA Congress, which states that Lelystad Airport can only open if there is a guarantee that the low-fly routes have disappeared in 2023. Is the CDA Group satisfied with the guarantees that are now available?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u60	I had not started with Schiphol; I had started with the expertise in the department in the field of aviation and rail. I just wanted to make that right. No, there are no guarantees. That's what I said at the conference. Warranties are very easy to get on a vacuum cleaner. If you buy it in a store and if it's not good, you can trade it in. What we can do is to ask the Minister to do everything that is in five years' time in 2023; we have five years' time in which reclassification has actually been achieved. We've done that before, and I'll come back to that later. When I see which project team is lined up and when I think back to the technical briefing we had, I myself, as a coalition party, dare to say that this cabinet is going to reorganise the airspace. There have been several Cabinets that have not done so. We're gonna do that this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u61	Your sixth question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u62	In my opinion, this cabinet rules until 2021 and not 2023, but that aside. I am concerned that the Minister has stated that the disappearance of those low-flying routes was also a very serious condition in the context of the airspace review. Those were the Minister's literal words. Now I hear the CDA group say: 'There are no guarantees'. What will you settle for in 2023?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u63	The only thing we're gonna settle for is that we're gonna fly higher. We have made the promise that we have done so in the beginning, and we will do so now and we will continue to do so for the next five years; whether I am here or not, my party will guarantee that the aircraft will fly higher after the reclassification. That's what we've committed ourselves to, and that's what we're sticking to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u64	My question is on the same subject. Mr Amhaouch says: 'Guarantees do not exist'. Your supporters in Overijssel were just so happy that there are now tough guarantees that the lowflying after the reclassification is over. In fact, Mr Amhaouch says that there is no guarantee at all. What does Mr Amhaouch say to his supporters? Are those guarantees there or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u65	Once again, the grassroots group, and I believe that this applies not only to the grassroots but also to the whole of the Netherlands, has said that there must be higher flying after 2023. That's what we're going for. That's what we're gonna realize. I am confident that we will make every effort, that there is sufficient capacity, that there is sufficient expertise and that these resources will never be able to say that we are running out. We'll get back to you. The Minister will be able to confirm it again in the second term. So in 2023, we're gonna fly higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u66	I understand. So those are guarantees as far as they're possible. I think the CDA's supporters can understand that. But it may be that those guarantees are not there in the process that Mr Amhaouch has just described and in which we are going to find out how it is going to work. I think it's a good thing that we're finding that out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u67	If you do program management, you will recover it from a specific date. When I look back, I see that my trust that we are well on our way has been strengthened. That doesn't mean we can sit back. We've had a technical briefing. LVNL sat at the table, and the NLR sat at the table, and Defence sat at the table, and the Ministry sat at the table. I think it has given each party a good feeling, and I want to hear it if there is one who does not have it about what they are doing and what steps they are taking. And we will also wait and see: we have been told that in the second quarter of next year the start decision will be taken and that there will be alternatives to flying higher, and how we will use the participation process and how we will manage international contacts with our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u68	Mr President, thank you very much; thank you very much for allowing me to come back to this. Again, this means that the guarantees are there as far as they become possible. But maybe it's good to mark that it also means that, when Lelystad opens up or "when" Lelystad opens, when it's at the CDA, three years of low flying takes place. And that goes for the numbers that Lelystad is going to host. I think it's good to tell that to the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u69	That is precisely the point that has been very clearly raised at the conference: what do you do in the first three years? Now, if you tell me you don't trust it and Lelystad's gonna postpone for three years, there's no Lelystad anymore. That's not what the grassroots are saying either. The support team says, "We want you to fly higher." The compromise that has now been chosen is a compromise to minimise the nuisance in the first year of 4,000 movements, 7 000 in the second year and 10,000 in the third. One gathers together to seek solutions and not to paint the picture that from day one there are indeed 10,000 flights every day above the same house.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u70	When I hear Mr Amhaouch like this, I really understand that the CDA departments of Heerde, van Apeldoorn, of Ede........................................................................................................................................................................................ For I actually hear Mr Amhaouch say: yes, there is a guarantee that it will be higher. But what is "higher"? That was, of course, the nature of a motion I tabled earlier: define for people in Klarenbeek and in Wezep what is "higher" after 2023. Mr Amhaouch says that we have all learned a great deal from the technical briefing, but at this point how much better will it be guaranteed for people in Klarenbeek? I did not get a clear answer. So my question to Mr Amhaouch is: what is "higher" for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u71	I think we have had a very good and lively conference. Everyone was able to agree with the proposal that came together from Gelderland, Overijssel and from here. Anyone can agree to that. You're talking about "higher." You mention exactly where it goes wrong. If you think you can guarantee that you can already define the height for each individual village, you will paint a wrong picture. We said we're going higher. The level flight is at 6,000 feet, or 1,800 or 2,000 meters. That's what we're gonna do now. Everyone says we're gonna fly higher. How much higher do you never know? You don't know exactly. You don't have to specify that now either, because that's not... I also speak pilots or former LVNLs. They say, "What you talk about in the Chamber, about 6,000 feet, is not yet relatively low; at that height there is flown more places." Those are their words. Of course, we understand the people in Gelderland and Overijssel when they say: you're going to fly at 6,000 feet for miles, and we don't want that. That should end after 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u72	Another supplementary question from Mrs Kröger. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u73	The supplementary question or remark is that it is very easy for the Minister to promise to the people that low flying is over after 2023 and for Mr Amhaouch to promise to fly higher, if you are not before or clear about what that means. Is that 50 feet or 100 feet higher? What really changes people? This is important for people in Wezep or Klarenbeek. I will specifically mention two examples because it is really just the question of whether it is better for the people there after 2023. So again the question to Mr Amhaouch: can you be honest about what can be guaranteed about how things get better after 2023?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u74	What we can say is that we're going to fly higher and so we're off the long low flight routes. How high that will be, we will soon see when the start decision comes and when it is worked out. What you want is to skip a process that will take five years, and that will lead to a result for the reshuffling of the entire airspace of the Netherlands, where Defence will happily also work together with civil aviation and where there will be space. You want a solution today. You are also well aware that in no company or in any project, not even a national project, you can already indicate exactly where you stand in five years' time. There's got to be some kind of trust, too. As a Chamber, we are also involved in a certain confidence in the facts and the processes. If we were to take wrong steps as Chambers or as Cabinets, you would have a point, but I think we have gone through this process very carefully and step by step from the start of this cabinet. The E.R. did double-checks. They've called in tilting stations. There's an experience...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u76	But, Mr President, I would like to say a few words about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u77	But the intention of an interruption is to ask a short question, to which a short answer comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u78	But a certain picture is being sketched here. Ter Kuile was brought in. The experience group has been brought in. Everyone's been able to participate. So let's not feed the suspicion from the Chamber either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u79	Thank you. Another question from Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u80	Mr Amhaouch referred to the word "trust." That's the whole point. The management group has also abandoned confidence. So there's no trust at all. Where we find that there is no such trust, my question is why the CDA does not choose to regroup first and see if it will all work with those high-flying routes. Then you have the guarantee. Then you can just give that guarantee now, because we are going to rearrange first and then see if we can fly high. If we can do all that, we can open Lelystad. Why does the CDA choose, knowing that there is no trust, to reverse that order? That's really weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u81	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u82	It may well be that there is no confidence in a number of people, and that has also been violated by the errors found in the EIA, but we do need to see the correction steps from a certain point of view. In his report, Mr Ter Kuile presented a balanced picture. He indicates where we need to be even more critical and also makes a number of recommendations. One of our motions sought to adopt all of these recommendations, including those from the Commission for the m.e.r., including for an additional monitoring programme for Overijssel and Gelderland, but this motion was not supported by GroenLinks and unfortunately did not succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u83	Another question from Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u84	Mr Amhaouch talks about trust. That was also the point that this minister started when she became Minister, namely that she was going to restore confidence. That was the starting point because a great deal of evil had already been done in this file. Mr Amhaouch refers to the environmental impact assessment. It was double-checked or updated after residents discovered the mistakes, not the cabinet, not the ministry. Then the environmental impact assessment was done again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u85	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u86	Now we see in the results of the experience flight that 3 dB to 6 dB more has been measured than indicated in the EIA. Does the CDA believe that, in the context of that confidence, the Minister should work with those 3 dB to 6 dB and change something about that, or does the CDA think that she should simply move it aside, as she actually does?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u87	I agree with Mr Laçin on one point. This concerns the errors identified by the residents in the first EIA. That's what Mr Adegeist brought up. I think it has also been made clear that mistakes have been made. I believe that there has been continuous careful action from that point on. Then you'll come to the report on the measurements. The residents themselves wanted an experience flight. As a chamber, we wanted an experience flight. I have read the reports, including from DGMR, and everything that was in them, and also the Minister's letter from the front to the back and from the back. If you add all the measuring points together, it saves 1 dB. Even at 1,800 meters level flight, on the measurement of the experience group there is 5 dB to 6 dB. That's possible, that's what's being seen. I think it is good what the Minister says: if we want to bring together the model that the EIA applies in accordance with the European directive and measure it in the future, we will have to make a proper measurement plan. You can't do that with just that experience flight. I've always learned that's the advantage if you've studied measurement and control technique, measuring is knowing if you know what you're measuring. I think that should be the starting point. We shouldn't trivialize. It gives an indication. But let us put very carefully into the future measurement plans, as they do in England. Then you'll see that the calculations and the readings are getting closer. But they'll never get on top of each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u88	Your last question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u89	I agree: measuring is knowing. Let's...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u90	If you know what you're measuring! It's part of the job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u91	I have given the floor to Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u92	Let's bring that together, above all. And if it becomes even to the decibel, we'll see. But I'm talking about differences from 5 dB to 6 dB in certain places, with an experience flight, with the latest plane, without passengers and cargo and during beautiful weather on May 30th. You might have been there yourself. At least I was there. I was in Nijbroek and Klarenbeek. Then I fear the worst when they are full planes, when they are older planes. Then the 5 dB to 6 dB becomes much larger. I would like to give the following to Mr Amhaouch and ask him. If we know that 3 dB leads to more than twice as much noise, what does that mean for the people living under those low-flying routes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u93	I'm now being forced into technology. 3 dB means twice as much sound strength. That's not the same as the sound experience of the ear. If you're 10 dB different, it's a doubling for the ear. Here's what I want to say. We don't have to trivialize the measurements that are being made. It's an indication. But they'll never be on top of each other. I've got my phone in front of me. If you're dealing with aviation, you're going to see what's flying above us. Then you're going to download an app to measure decibels. Maurits has that decibel meter. When Mrs Kröger spoke today, she was already between 60 dB and 70 dB. GroenLinks created a lot of noise in this room. I was in Zwolle and I was in Oene. I'm very involved in this theme, so I've also been listening. And let's be honest. There were people who felt that there was a lot of trouble. There were also people in front of me who said, "Is this it?" So let's not trivialize it, because then we'll be shorthanded. But let's go through this process in confidence together. Thank you. I have 37 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u94	Thank you. This means that I would now like to give Mr Laçin the floor on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u95	Mr. Chairman. I hope Mr von Martels is not going to measure my decibels. Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the infrastructure and water state budget. It makes choices about how we distribute the money and what priorities we choose. In making those choices, the cabinet moves a different path than the SP would have liked to see. I will deal with several points, clarify our choices and, with motions and amendments, try to get the cabinet on the right track. The self-appointed greenest cabinet ever makes choices that do not match the green profile it has measured itself. Polluters of our environment and climate are not being dealt with while households are being fined for accidentally wrongly separating their waste. More and more people are being burdened by air traffic and in different parts of our country people are seeing bus lines disappear that they desperately need to get from A to B. I would therefore like to start with transport and mobility. It is good that we are investing in cycling infrastructure and that there is a great deal of attention for international rail as an alternative to aviation. For the SP, however, there can only be good mobility policy if there is fair mobility policy. Policies that benefit everyone and enable everyone to travel in less time and preferably as clean as possible. Good public transport is therefore crucial for the SP. We constantly see bus lines disappear, bus lines used by young people to go to school, by elderly people to get care and by a lot of people to go to work or elsewhere. Why do we allow foreign state companies to determine our tax dollars where and when our bus lines run? The SP wants to make it possible for provinces to arrange their own public transport. This means, for example, that they can set up a provincial transport company again, because foreign state-owned companies here squeeze bus drivers by cutting breaks, planning too tight driving times and cutting back on equipment and maintenance, which we can miss as a toothache. We also want the people's representatives, in this case the province, to be involved in decision-making on new timetables if they are to be removed, merged or shortened. They can, like no other, weigh up the importance of residents and defend them where necessary. Many people do not become entirely dependent on the greed of transport companies. What does the Secretary of State think of this plan? Can it support this and how can we shape this in this house? The SP wants bottlenecks in traffic to always look at the best alternatives to find a solution. Sustainable transport is, of course, part of this. That is why it is incomprehensible to us that this cabinet should increase VAT on public transport and rail tickets. People who do not contribute to the congestion problem and are environmentally friendly are punished in this way. That's the world upside down. This cabinet chases people back into the car and thinks it can be solved with more asphalt. As a result, the traffic jams will not only be longer but also wider. No green policy, more like gray black. What measures is the government going to take to compensate public transport companies and passengers if the ridiculous increase in VAT is continued? Then back to aviation, a file in which it's been messing around for years and in which it's been messing around for years. From the measurements of the experience flight we have just discussed, it has emerged that the sound is 3 dB to 6 dB louder than that recorded in the environmental impact assessment. With one of the latest aircraft, no passengers and cargo and, again, beautiful weather on May 30. It could be a lot worse. That can only get worse for people living under those low-fly routes. But the Minister stated in her letter last night that she found the ranges acceptable and that the Commission, in particular. was aware of this. Does it take into account that an increase of 3 dB can cause two times more noise? And when will the Minister take seriously the directing group and the hundreds of thousands of people living in Friesland, Gelderland and Overijssel and listen to them? When are we finally going to receive the endlessly delayed environmental impact assessment for Schiphol? Do we have to wait until the results are in line with Schiphol and the Minister? And do we also consider all 200,000 people who are awake from the noise pollution around Schiphol, as the GGD stated last week? Or does the Minister continue to hold on to sound contours, which would mean that a huge number of people with nuisances would not exist and not be included in the figures? Finally, Ryanair. It's good that the minister for a...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u96	I thought I would give Mr Laçin a moment to finish the chapter on the plane, but it was still on the previous subject, I understand. Mr Paternotte for a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u97	I was just waiting to see if Mr Laçin was going to say anything about the flight tax, because he just had an interruption in which he argued for an income-dependent flight tax. Mr Laçin is a good friend of the freight pilots, because you always say very clearly that Schiphol should not grow further, but the cargo must be given space, because those are real jobs. But these cargo flights happen to be the oldest aircraft on Schiphol Airport. They make the most noise and cause the most emissions. Friends you have to tell the truth. My question is therefore whether you would be in favour of the flight tax being increased by those most polluting old aircraft, which affects people most, so that the lady who goes on holiday once a year may have to contribute a little less. Would you be in favour of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u98	The question is whether I am in favour of that. I am afraid to say with certainty that cargo planes are always the oldest and most polluting types, but some of them are. I don't think we should take the people with a small wallet who work hard and who can go on vacation once a year. That is why I had an interruption to Mrs Kröger. Cargo flights are indeed creating jobs. Then it is a large proportion of employment at Schiphol. But cargo flights also cause pollution. We should indeed look at how to tax freight flights, with fair distribution in view of pollution and employment. Besides, we shouldn't take the people with a small wallet. I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u99	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u100	I was at Ryanair. It is a good thing that the Minister is calling for a European approach to this society, which is structuralally damaging labour rights and thereby endangering flight safety. What is this minister going to do to tackle Ryanair, now that the company's rulings are being dropped? Or is it just big words in Europe, without action in the Netherlands? Pilots and cabin crew have been fired or forced to transfer. What will the Minister do for these people together with her colleague from Social Affairs and Employment? How do we prevent this in the future? I'd like an extensive response. The Minister can discuss today with her colleague from SZW the answer she can give tomorrow. Finally, on mobility, I have a few phrases about inland waterway transport. On several occasions, the Chamber has said that good ships must not be repaired by obsolete requirements. We need inland waterway transport as much as we can. Can the Minister explain the state of play regarding the protection of our inland waterway fleet, as requested in the Van Aalst/Laçin motion (11409, No. 187) with regard to the CCR rules? When can the Court receive the evaluation of the penalty policy in inland waterway transport? Will that work for the AO Maritime on December 6th? Mr. Chairman. Then there is our environment, because the environment is incredibly hard to endure. I'm just gonna make a list of things to focus on. Chemours in Dordrecht still pilots GenX and the banned substance PFOA in our environment and in the water. PFOA has been found in high concentrations in measurements around Chemours, in the soil around Custom Powders in Helmond, which processes chemicals for Chemours, and in the Alblasserwaard. How is this possible? This substance has not been used for five years, but is still found in high concentrations in different places in our country. Are the rulers aware of this? Do they know what it's about? As if the pollution of our drinking water by, for example, GenX and PFOA is not enough, this cabinet also increases the VAT on drinking water from 27% to 30%. Drinking water is a primary need for life. So this is unprecedented and shameless. The drinking water companies have even launched an action to stop this ridiculous intention. We wholeheartedly support this action. I have the amendment to item No. 16 in order to strengthen this. I'm hoping for House-wide support for this. There are companies that recycle so-called artificial turf mats, but which in practice do not recycle anything, increase the amount of artificial turf mats, damage our environment and also make money from selling those mats. There are chemical tankers that mix all kinds of toxic substances in fuel oil and dump them in our water. There are tankers entering our country from Germany to pump into the air carcinogenic benzene, including in Gelderland. Incineration plants are running at full speed because China no longer wants our waste and landfills are full. Not exactly circular, I guess. Every year there are 12,000 people who die prematurely due to exposure to particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide. But this cabinet is going to continue asphalting. And it goes for growth of Schiphol and expansion of Lelystad Airport, with an overdose of ultra-fine dust as a gift. Asbestos has been banned since 1993, but it is still in Eurogrit products, in Claire's make-up and in products imported without supervision from China, for example. The ban on asbestos roofs has been postponed by one year and the subsidy pot of 75 million is virtually empty. The CDA Group and the SGP Group were already talking about this. I have tabled an amendment to make another 75 million available, because we have a huge task to do until 2025 and the government has to take responsibility for it. I hope that the CDA and the SGP will also fulfil their moral duty and support my amendment. Mr. Chairman. I can go on for a while, but this laundry list of examples from the last year and a half speaks volumes. This cabinet does nothing to tackle polluters and places the bill on the public, who can cough up all the costs and at the same time be exposed to health risks and see the environment ruined. €90 fine for an empty bag of chips in the wrong container against companies that have free play and can do anything with tons of waste, that is the policy of this cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Our inspection services are also failing. This is evident from all the examples I have mentioned. The Inspection Environment and Transport needs more capacity and knowledge. Without tighter supervision and enforcement policies, laws and regulations do not represent anything, and polluters and environmental criminals earn millions at the expense of health and the environment. That must stop, and that is why I am tabling an amendment to release 15 million to strengthen the ILT. It is our job as a Chamber to put all Dutch people in one place and to make choices from that perspective. The government must be there for the people and not for the polluting industry and the environmental criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u101	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs, who will speak on behalf of the D66 Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of team IenW of D66, three top employees and no less than four MPs, I get to kick off this year. My colleague Jan Paternotte is about to take over the issue of aviation and mobility. Colleagues Rutger Schonis and Tjeerd de Groot are responsible for the WHO's Water and MIRT. Today, I focus on the environment and the circular economy. Mr. Chairman. When I say "a better environment starts with yourself," everyone thinks of the P.O. Box 51 commercial from the 1990s. But when I say "circular economy," not everyone has a clear picture. It is a vague container concept that we need to make concrete with plans and investments. Yesterday, my colleagues in the EZK budget spoke about the societal challenges in the field of energy transition and climate adaptation. Today I complete that sacred trinity with the circular economy. That's the core of my D66 input today. As far as the circular economy is concerned, we are all turning the buttons: government, business, but also consumers. Just think of shopping and taking your own bag with it. We are going from consumption and disposal to reuse, with the aim of a sustainable and healthy future. We must bring everyone, both the consumer and the producer. A better environment begins with all of us. The Secretary of State is committed to that. We see her commitment in a clean air agreement, a new national waste plan, a circular economy implementation agenda and a global approach to plastic, including at the international level. In 2019, we will have the more concrete measures and we can really go ahead. The circular economy is essentially about reducing our raw materials consumption and preventing pollution. According to TNO, the proposed actions in the transition agendas can reduce between 7.7 and 13.5 megatons of greenhouse gases. Let's take that chance. We are therefore pleased with the €16 million extra for circular economy in the 2019 and 2020 budgets. During the budgetary investigation, the Secretary of State has already made a commitment to make clear to the implementation agenda which other pots can be used even more for a more circular economy. The changeover is crucial for D66. We therefore believe that, in the end, there should be enough money to make our ambitions really come true. After all, it really is an investment in our future. In the cabinet response there was a lot of action. I won't name them all here, but there's going to be an acceleration house, for example. D66 wonders how much money goes into this project. How do we monitor whether the acceleration house makes a real contribution to the transition to the circular economy? What are we going to use less raw materials and how are we going to pollute our environment through this acceleration house? To know if we're making any real progress, we have a PBL monitor. Part of it is still under development. D66 wonders how this monitor can be used for the public. Is it also useful for the public campaign? If we really want to include everyone in the transition, then the consumer must also understand what the most circular choice is. Can public officers such as the Environment Central and the Food Centre play a role in this? We really need more knowledge from citizens, consumers and producers. At the moment, that knowledge still seems to be missing or too widespread. I really miss seeing how we're going to collect, share and deploy that knowledge. Do we need a chair, a new knowledge institute or a network? We'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how she sees this. Where we also miss the necessary knowledge and familiarity with circular, is the construction. Many building materials are based on mineral, fossil and metal building materials. About 50% of our emissions in the Netherlands stem from the production of primary products and construction has an important part to play in this, especially now that we have to build many more houses. Unfortunately, knowledge in the sector is often lacking enough to actually build these houses circularly. The Secretary of State recently concluded the concrete agreement, whereby a considerable amount of environmental material can have a second life. D66 would like to see a good circular application for many more materials in construction. As far as we are concerned, there will be a study of the five most commonly used materials in construction and how circular applications can also be made common in practice. In addition to the concrete chord, can we also see an asphalt or styrofoam chord? One of the other important steps is how we deal with waste, especially plastic. Beautiful steps are the Ocean Cleanup, an invention of Bojan Slat that is now floating around, and the Bubble Barrier that floats in rivers. But there is also a lot to do in the Netherlands and Europe. There will be an export tax on waste with a foreign destination. Now that countries like China no longer want our waste, we need to work with our own abundance of plastic. Now there's still too much to burn. How can we discourage this? How do we prevent fraud and illegal dumping in rivers such as the UK? How can we prevent these British practices in the Netherlands and do something about them at European level? Another important step is the pursuit of a single-use plastic, i.e. a ban on disposable plastic. We do wonder to what extent our ambitions remain. One of the goals is to achieve a 25% reduction in plastic by 2025 that does not yet have alternatives. But how can we encourage the reduction of such plastic and that these alternatives are really going to come? The second most common product in marine litter are cigarette filters. They have a strong environmental impact. One filter can pollute 500 to 1,000 litres of water. Can the Secretary of State take any steps here yet? And what about the debate at European level? Recently we also read about microplastics that find their way to the human body. Those are worrying reports, because there is still very little known about the impact. We know that part of those plastics comes from our synthetic clothing. How can we encourage the use of alternatives such as wool, cotton and hemp? Also locally there is a lot of profit to be gained. We talked earlier about improving the quality of our waste. The quality of our waste collection should also be raised. More separation, less separation and sometimes just more waste separation. How do we get the remaining municipalities involved in collecting plastic separately, for example? Finally, before I hand it over to my colleague, I would like to briefly mention air quality. Everyone has a right to clean air. That is why we are working towards the standards of the World Health Organisation. For that there will be a clean air agreement for the summer next year. The most effective is source policy, and we wonder whether scooters, mopeds and mopeds, where there is not yet a real hard drive, could do more. We would also like to hear from the Secretary of State about the pilots that have been in The Hague and Amsterdam to keep moustache bikes off the bike path. Mr. Chairman. If you'll allow me, I have one more comment on the DMV and on dirty diesels. We are concerned about the position of the RDW in approving diesels and wonder whether the RDW will not be played against its other European counterparts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u103	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Ziengs. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u104	Yes, on a subject that was raised a while ago: the filters of filterigarets. Mrs Van Eijs drew attention to this. It is indeed a huge problem, because most people have no idea at all that it is an environmental risk. You can see everyone throws away their cigarette that's got that little filter on it. I once said to the Secretary of State in an earlier debate: please contact the tobacco industry, because it may have a certain solution. Would D66 advocate such a solution instead of the fear culture to engage in conversation with that club, simply to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u105	If I remember correctly, the problem was that in principle we as a government have no contact with the tobacco industry. You could see that as just a practical problem, but I think there is also a principle underneath that. So I would much prefer to hear from the Secretary of State how they are doing in a European context with their European partners, because we are not only smoking in the Netherlands, we are going to see how we can solve that and perhaps introduce an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u106	Too bad I still have to interrupt, but reality is a whole different one. If you read Article 5.3 because that is what this is about, you will see that that does not necessarily mean that the government is not allowed to do so. People's representatives, for example, are allowed to do so. That's also established here in the Chamber, I know from the time I did the smoking file. Wouldn't it be a good idea, as a standing committee, perhaps, with its representatives, to have a discussion with the tobacco industry, because we are allowed to do so in order to make a judgment on how to do things? Then we can also raise this issue there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u107	I always like to start the conversation in principle, but I also like to hear whether that alternative has not been there for a long time and whether the Secretary of State might be able to take steps on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u108	Thank you. You were at the end of your speech. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Paternotte and he too is speaking on behalf of the D66 Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see time is being pushed up. Today I focus on everything that drives, rolls or flies or which stands still in the traffic monster for far too long. Because the way D66 looks at mobility is clear: we need to be able to get from A to B as fast, safe and sustainable as possible. Whether it is by train in the future, by bike or by electric car, every means of transport is a means and there are no sacred cows. The Netherlands must be ready for a future with much more movement, because still in traffic jams is not good for anything. That's why it needs to be cleaner, smarter and safer. Let me start with the ancient Dutch means of transport that has a special place in the heart of D66 and that is the bike. A great success worldwide: healthy, environmentally friendly and with enough exercise you can become second in the Tour as a Limburger. People used to find bicycles for those crazy Dutch with their flat polders and nowadays see from Malaga to Montreal and from Budapest to Buenos Aires two-wheelers conquer the street. Yet we are in the lead again, because the first country we have with Secretary of State Van Veldhoven is a ruler for cycling policy. In other countries, I assume she is called the Minister for Biking. More importantly, there is now 100 million euros of money for the bicycle. The goal is to raise 200,000 more people in the saddle. A large part of the money goes to more and better bicycle storage at train stations and a large part also goes to those speed bike paths. We are very curious about the first results of these cycling priorities. Which bicycle sheds at junctions have already been realized? Which regions are participating? When will this become clear? 'Cause the spades have to go to the ground. Can we now also see how the bike is better reflected in the broad infrastructure policy, i.e. in the consideration of other projects? As far as we are concerned, the goal must be that there is no longer a project that is not thought of from the opportunity for the bike and the perspective of the two-wheeler. An example of this is that with more and more e-bikes and also baking bikes something else is needed in the bicycle infrastructure. As an Amsterdammer I have often been in real bicycle files on my way to work. Does that mean other policies? These are all questions for the Secretary of State, as well as the question of how we are going to get the municipalities and the provinces involved. Because 100 million is beautiful, but it's the municipalities and the provinces that really have to make the space for that bike. To get more people on the bike, of course we need not only the structure, but also the hearts and the heads. That is why the Secretary of State has recruited eleven bicycle ambassadors. What are they going to do and what can we expect from them? Mr. Chairman. From the bike path I go to the main road, where less traffic jams and less pollution are needed. I'll start with the second. The truck tax is a very important measure. It is double sustainable. It is an incentive for parties to drive less often on the road, and to go to the track and the water. And the proceeds go to the sustainability of trucks. Mr Sienot's motion, that is to say, my colleague, has speeded up this measure and brought it forward. But can the Minister tell us how we're going to invest the proceeds in cleaner trucks? Is the Minister on this "how" already in consultation with the sector? And is there also a link here with the climate agreement? Because the emissions of trucks are still huge. The climate agreement is clear: the future is emission-free. All new cars are emission-free. Zero emission in 2030. Last year, the Netherlands had the fastest growth in electric driving in Europe. Whoever drives electric now sometimes feels like a lottery winner. The Weblog Cheaper Driving this summer showed how you drive to the campsite in Italy for €7.20 in charging costs with the whole family by choosing smart charging spots. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Voor €7,20!]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u110	There is a question from Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u111	After all these fine words you think that Mr Paternotte himself is cycling from Leiden to The Hague, or that he himself travels in an electric car, but nothing is less true. The question is about the Maut. Does Mr Paternotte agree with me that it is brought up by the sector itself? The foreign parties will also contribute to the payment. I think that's a good development. Does Mr Paternotte agree with me that 100% of the investment should also go back to that sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u112	In my view, we must still see the first debate in which Mr Dijkstra does not appeal to others about their travel behaviour. I sometimes come here by bike, I sometimes come here by train and bus and I sometimes also go by car via child care. And it needs to become an electric car in the future. Now, of course, I hope that Mr Dijkstra, who is constantly addressing other people, will also tell us what he is doing to make his travel behaviour more sustainable. We have never seen Mr Dijkstra mention the Instagram posts of other people in this Chamber. So I hope to see that again. Mr Dijkstra talks about the Maut. Yeah, he calls it investing in the sector. We have agreed that this money will partly reduce the tax on motor vehicles and that investments will be made to make the sector more sustainable. But my question is indeed whether we can indicate how we are going to do that. Because the reason there is a critical report is that we need to make it concrete quickly so that we can get on with it. As far as we are concerned, this measure should be introduced earlier today than tomorrow. Mr President, I shall continue. I would have stayed with that €7.20. That is even less than what Mr Amhaouch pays for air tickets. We already know that it is €300 because he wants a flexible ticket. According to the ANWB, a third of the Dutch people are interested in buying an electric car within five years. But between dream and deed, three things stand in the way. They are not laws or practical objections, or melancholy that no one can explain, but they are three concerns for people: the price of the electric car, the range of action and the availability of loading posts. That's often just a lack of information. Because think about it: there are more loading posts in the Netherlands than you think. There are 33,000 of them. That makes us the frontrunner in Europe. That's why D66 wants more clarity for all car drivers about where those poles stand and how much electric driving costs. There needs to be more clarity along the road about the gas stations, where people can load and where they can refuel hydrogen. This also strengthens the business case for petrol stations to offer those alternative fuels, as customers will find them easier. And it reminds all those other drivers, who still fuel or diesel, that there is a cleaner alternative for them. The question to the Minister is therefore to use a seduction offensive by placing clues on the sign. We have tabled an amendment to this effect. And then I get to the price. The price is also much more favourable than people suspect. De Volkskrant even predicted that electric cars would become so cheap in the use that people would flood highways. The big, green traffic monster it will be. But for the time being it's not that far, because whoever's in the traffic jams just sees these petrol and diesel fumes around them. Whoever opens the window to enjoy the sun, in the meantime breathes in all those fumes and makes an attack on his lungs. So let that electrical revolution go as fast as you can. That's why D66 wants us to create a price comparison, right where we're still paying a fortune for a full tank of gasoline or diesel. Because when the driver sees at the pump that 100 kilometers of electric driving saves two thirds compared to a liter of Euro95, the electric car gets a lot higher on the wish list if you are in the showroom or with the occasional dealer next time. So our question is: is the Minister prepared to introduce this? Mr. Chairman. We're front-runners, but we need to get to real, rural loading posts. In every corner of every village to a hamlet a loading pole must be placed. You're not gonna buy a car if you can only go to gas stations at high-speed charging stations. Public loading stations on roads, on parking spaces at work, at the supermarket and preferably also the sports club and the community center are needed. We must have a concrete, national vision, in which all the municipalities have their own plans. By 2025, we need 500,000 electric cars on the road. We can power them if every tenth of a public parking lot has such a loading pole. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State about her stake plan. What does the Secretary of State do in her policy to bring the various municipalities together, so that we really have reached the same level of coverage from Zeeland to Groningen? I'm D66, so I'm also asking for Europe. Because what we have to go to is that charging across the border is just as easy as refueling or calling across the border, so that everyone can get in the electric car carefree to degrade the Route du Soleil in summer or, like myself, to visit my mother-in-law in Denmark, because my mother-in-law lives very far away. What does the Secretary of State do for this? The taxi is the most intensively used car in the country. You do know the picture: you get out of the train and then there are those taxis with stationary raging engines to cover you under a blanket of diesel walls.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u113	Before you go any further, I think Mr von Martels has something to say on the previous point. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u114	I cannot yet ask a question about the content that is to come. I can't wait to see what else is coming. But about those loading posts: do you have any idea how many charging posts are needed until 2025, with in mind the expected number of electric cars in which we are going to drive?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u115	We said at least 500,000 electric cars. Exactly how many charging posts do we need for that? If a loading pole is available for every tenth parking space, you have such a wide availability that there will never be a problem for people when finding a loading pole. You're gonna need one of those levels that people know for sure that they can charge, or else you can't drive that car.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u116	Follow-up question by Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u117	That is a huge task, and there will be no misconception about it. But it is a question of making a realistic plan. Should the plans that are now being made still be implemented within the current coalition agreement? How do you see that? Because we do have to look beyond 2022, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u118	I believe that you are keen to ensure that we do this as soon as possible. I therefore propose a number of things to further increase the demand for electric cars and to ensure that these second-hand electric cars arrive at the Dutch occasional dealers rather than abroad. If demand increases, the supply of loading posts must also increase very quickly. Of course, that's why I'm asking about the stake plan. We set 2025 as the first target that there are 500,000 electric cars on the road, while in 2030 new cars should only be emission-free, i.e. electric, hydrogen or other possibilities. That means that the poles do indeed have to go quickly. But the point I'm making here is that that's not enough if you only have it in certain central strategic locations at service stations. They really need to be around the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u119	Fortunately, I picked out my mother-in-law a little more climate-friendly: she lives ten houses away. But I do feel a little sorry for Mr Paternotte. Because if he wants to go to Denmark immediately with that electric car, which I fully support, and he has to charge somewhere after the Dutch border, then I can speak from experience: I have been in Europe for five years with a car with petrol and a plug. I was a huge plugger, but I almost never manage to do it abroad. So how do you do that in Germany and Denmark if you want to see your mother-in-law later? 'Cause there's still a little problem there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u120	I suspect Mr Stoffer goes to his mother-in-law a little more often. That's purely because of the distance...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u121	Sure, every week!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u122	Look, every week. Then I'll end up traveling a lot longer to my mother-in-law. That's why I'm asking. Because I mentioned that website Cheaper driving that showed you how, if you look for the right places and get the right passes in advance, you can go to Italy for €7.20. That's very nice, but that's almost for the hobbyists who make that a project. What should be possible, of course, is that you get in the car and know that you can find enough charging spots on that route. And you shouldn't only find them, but you should also know that you shouldn't have arranged in advance that you can charge there: you should be able to get there right away. In other words: it must be as easy as filling and calling. That is why I ask the Secretary of State that this has to be arranged, because this is also an important obstacle for people to say: do I want to buy an electric car, because if I have one, can I still go to my mother-in-law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u123	Look, we're getting together a little bit. Are the other European countries as far along as we are to roll out these loading plans or not? 'Cause I don't have a visual on that. Or are you asking the Secretary of State to encourage this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u124	Partly. We are now the frontrunner, because we have the most loading posts, when we are not even the largest country. So that does indeed show that not all European countries are equally advanced and that we, as a frontrunner, have the disadvantage that we are less easily crossing the border. But that is precisely why I ask the Secretary of State to do something about it in a European context. The first step is of course that you can go right along the highways, because it is not that you want to be able to charge at every sports club in Germany or in Denmark. So the first step must be to make the available loading posts very easily accessible and to create a European vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u125	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u126	Then about the taxi. So I had taken the picture of those diesel walls that you see when you walk out of that train station. And in the middle of winter, a taxi driver who has to wait doesn't want to be in the cold; I get that, too. Then that engine is on, sometimes for hours. How much nicer would it be if you were greeted at that station by a row of electric taxis? The driver is therefore warm, but without diesel vapour. At Schiphol Airport, this is already a reality. That is where the zero emission taxis, a collaboration between the government and the sector, awaits. We want this example in many more places in the Netherlands. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State to pick this up, and possibly start a green deal zero emission taxi with the taxi industry. Mr. Chairman. Besides being cleaner, we also need to get faster, for example in Utrecht. In the coalition agreement it was agreed that the cabinet will work with the Utrecht region with the Noordelijke Randweg Utrecht, the Zuilense Ring. But I will look at Mr Van Dijk for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u127	Mr Van Dijk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u128	Mr Paternotte rightly referred to more clean taxis. We are in favour of this, but isn't there a step we should take first, namely the Uber approach? We are, among other things by de Volkskrant, quite upset about all kinds of businesses that allow illegal taxi drivers to drive, via Uber. Uber actually says, "I had nothing to do with that." So we would like to call on the cabinet to see how we can get Uber to work properly in the Netherlands. Is Mr Paternotte also in favour of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u129	Yeah, we're in favour of making Uber work by the book. A few years ago, you had UberPop. He let people in their own car act as a taxi driver without any license. Fortunately, that was also dealt with, because that was absolutely impossible. The principle that Uber simply allows licensed taxi drivers to drive around via the app is fine. It should also be possible for other companies to do so; it would be nice if a good competitor stood up for Uber in that respect. And we would like to call on Uber to use the mass they have built up to make the taxi market more sustainable. Because you see that there are companies that want to set up electric taxis and we hope that this can be further stimulated with a green deal. In that respect, Uber has so far meant very little.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u130	I'm also referring to the fact that Uber uses algorithms to drive taxi drivers. For example, what could very well be done is to look at the drivers' rest and driving times through these algorithms. These are not checked at Uber and are checked at other taxi companies. That could be ideas the cabinet could discuss with Uber. Then we also address Uber: it is good that you are there, but you must feel like other taxi companies that you have some form of employership towards your taxi drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u131	I agree with the principle, but these kinds of discussions are often held in the SZW committee, so I can imagine that we will also ask the Minister the questions you are asking. We can then ask how the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management is working with taxi providers to help protect the driving and rest arrangements in this case. I was at the Pillar Ring. The turntable of the Netherlands is Utrecht, with the busiest quartet highways in the country: the A27, the A28, the A12 and the A2. Yet Utrecht still does not have a true full ring. In 2030, an additional 30,000 vehicles per day pass by, most of which are not on their way to the Domstad. The province and the city have drawn up a plan of demands for the construction of the Noordelijke Randweg Utrecht not only the flow around Utrecht, but also the living environment of the surrounding area. Both parties want to invest heavily in the plan: 29 million. With a modest contribution from the cabinet, the agreement in the government agreement is strengthened and both the flow for the Netherlands and the living environment on the ground in the region can be greatly improved. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr Sienot's motion for a resolution, which was adopted, asks for tests to be carried out on payment for use. That's a very important one. Can the Minister tell us what tests are being prepared now? When can we expect it? The letter we received about this was quite brief, while we find that the sector really wants to get to work. Mr. Chairman. I come to the railroad: the fastest connection between the centres of the big cities. As far as we are concerned, building must be done as much as possible in these centres, so that the green can also remain green. Living close to the train is actually nice. Guus Meeuwis once made a wonderful song about it. So building above the track is what we think should happen. The ground is then double used and the train is nearby. Safety, noise and vibration must, of course, be in the construction plan. Cities already look at new possibilities in the vicinity of stations at D66's insistence. Can the Secretary of State identify where there are opportunities to build above the track, just where the need and the price of houses are now highest? Mr. Chairman. I want to get off the road and track into the air. That's where we want to fly greener.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u132	Mr. Paternotte wanted to fly off again. Utrecht-Breda, the A27, has passed a few times today, just like the crowds. How do you view new initiatives? It has been researched more often, but a direct rail link between Utrecht and Breda is not feasible because it costs a lot of money. Suppose there are new, innovative methods. I mentioned bus connections in my input. How does D66 feel about that? It is an alternative to the train but public transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u133	I myself lived near Utrecht for a while and worked in Breda. I have indeed noticed how special it is that two cities that are actually easily accessible by car if you are not stuck in the traffic sample are so difficult to connect with public transport. We think it's very good to have that looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u134	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u135	In the air we want to fly greener and we also want a fairer price. First of all, in addition to 200,000 new cyclists, we also want to get 2 million people off the plane on the train. It is strange that there are daily flights from Schiphol Airport to Brussels and from Brussels to London. There are even more than 60 a day from London to Amsterdam. What about the international rail agenda and that fair price? Sinterklaas will soon be crawling over the rooftops again. People make surprises for each other. The rhyming dictionary runs overtime and gadgets that may change owner costs up to €10. Then you get a shiny key chain or a goldfish that you have to keep in your lap all night. But you can also give a family member a one-way ticket to Eindhoven-Athens for €10 by plane, a distance of more than 2,000 kilometers. Indeed, the return flight is slightly more expensive, namely €17. But then you've still been flying for €27 4,000 kilometers; a kind of flying kilo-blaster. Anyone can feel on their clogs that it's too good to be fresh. In the coalition agreement, we agreed to introduce a flight tax. That is a first step towards a fair price for airline tickets. It contributes to awareness, and the revenues are used for relief for all Dutch. That's good. I hope to be able to convince every skeptic. But with a flight tax alone, of course, we will not solve that problem. Low-budget companies are growing and making profits. This is mainly due to the fact that they do not have to pay taxes on their kerosene. This is the result of the Treaty of Chigago of 1944. That treaty needs to be modernised as a matter of urgency. No one can explain to me why when you refuel a Fiat Panda you pay more excise duty than Saudia Cargo at Schiphol Airport on the 219,000 gallons of kerosene for their Boeing 747. Excise duty on kerosene would be the best thing. The kite that flies with the most economical aircraft saves an amount that is perfectly linked to the amount of fuel that has been sprayed. Of course, we will not solve that in this budget debate, I know that. This must be regulated internationally, in the context of the ICAO International Civil Aviation Organisation. The club meets once every three years, but an extraordinary session can be organised for specific purposes. If the ICAO Convention is so outdated, it justifies such a session. But someone has to take the initiative. Who could do better than a minister with a lot of international experience? As Secretary of State Snel also gathers his European colleagues at a conference on a European flight tax, which would, of course, be even better than if we did so only as the Netherlands, we also propose that the Minister take the lead in such an extraordinary session in ICAO to allow excise duty on kerosene. I am making this proposal together with Mr Stoffer. That is not just a matter of reason, because the SGP is not only the longest-lived political party in the Netherlands, but it is also the only party in this Chamber that existed when the Chicago Convention was concluded. So if one party can say that this treaty is outdated, then it is the SGP. I'd like a response. There's a reason we say "greener flies." Because it's quite a thing that after decades of growth in the Netherlands we haven't allowed Schiphol to grow for years. I see two people are trying to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u136	I saw Mrs. Kröger get up first. It is your last question, Mrs Kröger. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u137	I'd very much like to spend it on the subject of a fair price for flying. As far as Mr Paternotte's proposals are concerned, I think it is very good to take a step towards the end of the ploftickets. Changing such an international treaty will, of course, take a great deal of time, but it is very important for our minister to speed it up. Alone, there could be an intermediate step. In the case of domestic flights, excise duty may be levied. That is what the United States is doing, for example. Europe could also be seen as a domestic market: the European Economic Area. Flights within Europe could be regarded as one economic entity. You would be able to charge excise duty within Europe. Is this a direction of thought that Mr Paternotte wants to go with? Is it a plan that we might be able to work out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u138	I find the direction of thought very interesting. We have ETS within Europe, of course, but there is no ETS in the United States. They have something for that domestic. I am glad that you say 'in Europe', because if we arrange something for domestic flights in the Netherlands, we are not getting anywhere. But I'm sure I'd like to think with you about that direction of thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u139	That is good news, especially since it is legally possible in Europe. It's okay with countries to each other. That's good to know. I would like to congratulate Mr Paternotte, also for using the same imagery as the Party for Animals has used before: the Panda and the jumbo. It's really nice to meet you there. Mr Paternotte looks a little surprised, but I am happy to send him the text. I thought it was a compliment to us, but maybe it's something else. I have the next question. Trying to increase or introduce excise duties at ICAO level seems to be a good idea. It is now the case that ICAO is the organisation of the aviation sector, which has been indicating for decades that it wants to do everything, except for the introduction of excise duty on fuel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u140	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u141	Now we in the Netherlands will soon have to decide, in December, whether we are going to give Europe, the Council of Ministers, the ICAO proposal, it is a bit of a complicated story, Mr President; I have to take the time; thank you for the fact that the aviation climate plans are being resolved by ICAO itself through CORSIA. If we do that and say to Europe 'yes, ICAO, go and fix it', then excise duty is probably out of the question. So my question to D66 is: will it not agree, like the Animal Party, to transfer these powers to ICAO if we want to continue to regulate them independently at European level or as a country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u142	Two things. First of all, the imagery of Fiat Panda. Let me honestly confess that I have already used it in the general consultation we had before the summer, so I am actually repeating myself here. Later on, I did see this in your expressions. But let's start another investigation into who plagiarized who. Secondly, on CORSIA. Of course, we are looking very critically at whether we think that is enough. I am not so sure that when CORSIA comes up with that package, it also means that an excise duty is automatically removed. We have ETS in Europe, but we are still looking at a European aircraft tax or a European flight tax, which would be the most beautiful. I understand why you're saying that this is a complicated story, because I think we have to put it very well together, which makes things impossible, because I don't see it directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u143	In any case, we can see that there is a plan from ICAO called "CORSIA." There's no fuel tax in that. We can also see that we have to make a decision next month: how does the Netherlands feel about that? I think it is good that we should discuss this together, because we also need to vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u144	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u145	Yes, it is a good thing that we are meeting this general consultation on 5 December with great anticipation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u146	Then I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn. Another afterburner, Mr. Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u147	Yeah, another afterburner. Mr Paternotte spoke about 5 December. Full of expectation our hearts beats; then we have a consultation. But it's too late. We have to give the minister orders in the AO Transport. The Minister knows that, too. So we need to talk about this before then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u148	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u149	But you're in charge of the agenda. We are not doing that here, in this plenary. We have a procedural meeting for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u150	It's good to hear that D66 also thinks you should pay a fair price for flying. Would it also be possible for D66 to consider charging aircraft instead of taxing the ticket, in the sense that you are burdening a polluting or more polluting aircraft more heavily?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u151	In my opinion, it is best if we do something together with Europe, because then you will have no negative effects and competition between us. In addition, I would indeed find it the very best if we looked at those planes. That is why I put that question to Mr Laçin. We now have those cargo flights at Schiphol Airport. Some devices are quite modern, but they are often relatively old; sometimes they are 30 years old. Imagine that our motorways are full of 30-year-old cars; that would be a disaster for air quality, but that is often the reality of the freight pilots at Schiphol Airport. Cargolux, Saudi Cargo... I can name them all. If you actually make it a relatively large contribution to this aviation tax, then that is also a good incentive for sustainability and for the faster renewal of that fleet to make sure that you work with much cleaner, newer devices. That is exactly why I asked earlier to do exactly the same with the airport charges at Schiphol Airport. I am very happy to see that the Minister has picked that up and that this is now going to happen. So the most polluting aircraft are now going to pay significantly more at Schiphol Airport and the latest less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u152	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u153	That is why we say: greener flies. Because it's quite a thing that after decades of growth in the Netherlands we don't allow Schiphol to grow for years now. I commend Dick Benschop and the Minister for taking Schiphol out of the rat race at European airports to ask who is the biggest. There is clearly a fresh wind blowing through the Schiphol building. Let Schiphol be the greenest instead of the biggest airport. You can be cynical about that, because aviation is and remains polluting. In China and India, aviation doubles over the next five years. Hundreds of airports are coming in. We can reduce aviation in the Netherlands, but in the end we have the same planet as the Chinese and the Americans. We must therefore convince them to set limits to growth. We must therefore also be at the forefront of sustainability and we must encourage innovation. This also means: electric flying. The fuel of the future is not kerosene. At the short distance, where you don't just have fast trains, those little electrical devices can get started. The KLM flies to some European destinations with 88 seats. Put three electric planes, 30-seaters, in place; then you can choose between more times and you have less noise and less emissions. The Netherlands is already leading the way with loading posts, as we have just indicated. Let's do the same thing with electric and hybrid flying. Heathrow has already taken a step by losing a million pounds of port money for electric aircraft. What the Brexit Britten can do, we can do better. That is why I would suggest that the brake on electric flies be removed until 2040. Make sure that lock restrictions and port fees are not in the way and give electric flies a clear path. I'd like to hear if the Minister embraces this. Speaking of quieter, since last week at Maastricht Aachen Airport the heavy Antonov aircraft, which kept many residents out of sleep, have been banned. At Schiphol, our motion is rapidly converted into more harbor money for troublemakers, as we just mentioned. That's very good, but residents aren't just involved because they live on those routes. Lelystad has shown that residents can also make sure that errors can be removed from an environmental impact report. And that was very special, because it was perhaps a coincidence that there were residents there who had the knowledge, the expertise and the time to do so. What we do have at all airports of national importance in the Netherlands is the so-called regional consultation committees. We would like to strengthen the expertise of these committees next year. The evaluation we received this year showed that more than a third of those concerned consider an increase in the budget desirable. That is why, together with Mr Bruins of the Christian Union, I have tabled an amendment which doubles the national contribution to those committees. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Does the Minister see room to strengthen those committees? Then there is something else from the budget, Mr President. In one sentence it says: the air traffic control system of the Netherlands is approaching the end of its technical life and needs to be replaced. We have been able to learn about this in the past year. Schiphol was flattened a few times by a malfunction in LVNL's system. This had a huge impact on passengers, airlines and the airport. One time it was a technical communication failure and the other time it was a broken cable. Whose responsibility is it to replace this system and who is going to pay it? And when is that scheduled? In the future, I want to prevent our biggest airport from shutting down when a mole gnaws a cable somewhere in the Westland. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u154	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk. He speaks on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u155	Thank you, Mr President. To get ahead of Mr Dijkstra: when I leave home, I take one of the cleanest ferries we know in Europe and in the world, the TESO steamboat and then I take a small, quite economical car to The Hague. But what I'd like is for us to invest more in the O.V. Because then it could also be very attractive to come here from Den Helder. So we've had this interruption. Mr. Chairman. This budget is about important things in people's lives. Because indeed, there's a lot of technique involved, but it's all about everyday things. It's about the car we're driving, the train we're in, the bus we're in, the water and the air. That is why it is important that we are happy to see that the Netherlands is one of the most prosperous countries when it comes to infrastructure and the water that comes out of the tap. I believe this is because we know the tradition that we have been a hugely innovative country for years, including in Europe and beyond. We want to be constantly at the forefront of all new developments, and we can do so. And then this is an interesting time. I also look at the cabinet, which has been in office for a year. Is the cabinet going to take back that leading role on these essential parts? Are we going to stay ahead of us in Europe and beyond? I will mention a number of issues which are of interest to the Labour Party. These are major tasks that we have with each other, and we expect the cabinet to work on them swiftly. Mr President, I start close to home, in the Wadden region, one of the most beautiful natural areas in Europe. It is a beautiful area where people live with great pleasure and where many people come to spend their holidays and enjoy nature. But the Wadden also have very specific characteristics. It can be difficult, for example, if you are ill on such an island. Is there an ambulance? It is also difficult for schools to stay open, because they are struggling with shrinkage. Then you have a specific situation, because you don't go to another school. Yeah, you should get the boat. So there are all kinds of specific topics that affect the Wadden region and that also require specific attention. The same applies to nature development and how we deal with economic development in such a fragile area. The Labour Party will also, not now but soon, present the Wadden Plan as it sees it, focusing on these important issues, which cover much more than just Infrastructure and Water State. But, Mr President, there is one important point that concerns this ministry. That's the Wadden Sea Management Authority. That's what the coalition agreement says. The question is: what exactly is this managing authority going to do? From the Wadden, all wadden organisations and the wadden inhabitants there is a great need for a single point of contact for the Wadden and its surroundings, i.e. the provinces, the municipalities and the Wadden Islands to represent the importance of that area and that of the inhabitants of that area here in The Hague. In my own words, that's the Wadden Commissioner. The government agreement talks about the managing authority. The wadden inhabitants themselves find that a rather bureaucratic name. I would like to hear from this Minister whether this term is final. Is this managing authority going to express the special interests of the inhabitants of the Wadden here in The Hague? I've seen a reconnaissance set up. What's going on with that? Is that managing authority really gonna get there? Is the Minister prepared to appoint this Wadden Commissioner, who should work as a clear point of contact between The Hague and the Wadden, as an oil lady/male? Mr. Chairman. From the Wadden I go to the O.V. It is also important for a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u156	Before you do that, Mrs Dik-Faber has a question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u157	Warm words about the management authority for the wadden region. I am proud that it is included in the coalition agreement. I have two questions about this. Does the Labour Party think that, with that managing authority, we should look at the area in its entirety? Does the Labour Party think that it is an independent organisation that looks comprehensively at the issues that lie there, precisely because of its links with the North Sea coast, without having to look at that area as well? These are both my questions to the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u158	It is exactly what Mrs Dik-Faber says. That is exactly what it should be, because there are so many interests on the islands, in the area itself and in the surrounding areas, that all these interests should be shared by that authority. So the answer to both questions is yes. Mr. Chairman. Public transport is important for a lot of people. You go to work and then you take the bus or the bike. Mr Laçin has already said that it is important for a less densely populated area that there is public transport that is on time and that it does not get any less. I would like to draw special attention to all new buildings. A lot of neighbourhoods are being built right now. What you see then is that mobility is often not considered. Yeah, maybe how to get there by car, but not how to get there by bus or by bike. Is the Minister prepared to look at all these new projects to see whether good public transport is an integral part of this? Is he willing to take this with him in the Mobility Fund? Mr. Chairman. Then the plastics. Boyan Slat is a great inspiration to many people, because he leads the fight against the plastic with a wonderful project. But there's a lot more to be done. I think we all need to do something. Then it's about collecting plastics, introducing deposit money, tackling cans and dealing with stray waste. I'd like to take a little extra step. Little steps help, too. It's a personal frustration of me that there's always such a thin foil for magazines that you get from that throw away plastic. I'd really like to get rid of that. How nice would it be if we could take a small step tomorrow by deciding to stop this? Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider whether the number of plastics can be reduced and preferably whether she can ban them? What about the plan of business, which we discussed earlier, to reduce plastics? I would also like to hear about the latest state of affairs. Mr. Chairman. It's fast-track, but we're heading for the road now. We're going to the cabs. We're going to Uber specifically, because Uber keeps getting negative in the news. This morning with fraud: ploof-e.g.s and also a terrible accident with an Uber driver. The question with this kind of new company, which in itself brings nice services, is whether they want to relate to the Dutch rules of the game that we here in this Chamber lay down with each other. My answer is a pity, no. Companies like this are looking for the gaps in legislation. I don't think we should watch this kind of business. We must say: you may do here, but you must follow the rules; and if you do not listen, we will address you and then you must feel. Is the secretary of state who's going over the taxis willing to talk to Uber about this? How does the Secretary of State view Uber's statement in the Volkskrant that they do not want to deal with fraud because it is not their responsibility? After all, they are entrepreneurs. That's way too fast for me. How does the Secretary of State view that Uber drivers can drive for hours without complying with the rest and driving time law, which belongs to Infrastructure and Water State? Isn't it possible to talk to Uber if Uber doesn't want to take on the responsibility himself to use Uber's algorithms, which show exactly when a taxi is driving and not driving, to oblige the taxi drivers to follow the rules properly, as other taxi drivers in the Netherlands should? Are you prepared to oblige Uber to do so if necessary? I'd like an answer from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I'm going to the trucks. Last year, during this budget, we talked a lot about lorries, about compliance and about parking places. I have to say that the Minister has gone to work. We have also received the answers to the parliamentary questions. I'm glad. But we note that more than 700 checks have fined more than 20% of drivers. I think that is a very high number, and that means that this should actually be the tip of the iceberg. Is the Minister prepared to intensify such inspections and controls? I am convinced that it would be better for truck drivers if they really followed the rules that Dutch drivers have to comply with, but not all kinds of drivers from the Eastern bloc. They also have a lot of problems because they have to sleep in the most horrible conditions along parking spaces. We still see that on the weekends a lot of parking spaces are crowded. So I would also like action from the Minister and an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u159	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber. Mrs Dik-Faber speaks on behalf of the Christian Union Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u160	Thank you, Mr President. The Christian Union is committed to a circular economy in which we no longer produce waste and a clean environment for people and animals. We do that because we only have one globe, one creation that we want to pass on to our children and our grandchildren. As we deal with creation now, it is not sustainable. Fortunately, we see that more and more people are turning their backs on this. Think, for example, of The Great Bubble Barrier that prevents plastic from entering the seas and oceans with rivers. The ideal is of course a world without plastic. Not for nothing have I adopted SDG 14 that focuses on protecting seas and oceans. Mr. Chairman. The European Parliament recently decided to stop using disposable plastic. I think that is a historic decision, because disposable plastic is a waste of raw materials and is a major source of environmental pollution and plastic soup. The Secretary of State is organising a Plastic Summit with other European countries and wants to start working with business leaders in their own country. Can the Secretary of State explain this further? What are we gonna see of that? Mr. Chairman. After oil, clothing is the most polluting industry in the world. This is due, among other things, to the use of water in production, 7,000 liters of water for one T-shirt, but clothing is also a source of plastic soup. By washing synthetic clothing, microfibres end up in the wastewater. I asked Parliament questions about the difficult recycling of clothing. It is good to see that the Secretary of State shares my concerns and talks about this with the clothing industry and with the Salvation ReShare Army. I also welcome the commitment to explore the feasibility of a minimum percentage for recycled textiles in new products. However, I would like to see more concrete actions. I have some questions. Is the Secretary of State prepared to scale up textile collection and recycling with the money from the climate envelope? The Secretary of State is in consultation with the clothing industry on the elimination of low-grade clothing. Is it prepared to make specific agreements on this matter as well? Is the Secretary of State willing to commit to labels that match? There is often more synthetic material in clothing than is mentioned on the label. I know that RIVM is researching clothing as a source of plastic soup, and as far as I am concerned, it would be good if the EU Secretary of State called for a warning on the label for synthetic microfibres that end up in waste water via the washing machine. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Municipal environmental streets collect waste separately with more or less success. The big question is, of course, when are we going to stop using new raw materials from the earth and make more use of the recycling of all that material collected by the municipalities? Unfortunately, recycled material is often even more expensive than new raw materials. Part of the climate envelope is intended for recycling. Does this also stimulate the demand for recycled material? We are getting better and better at separating our waste, but in the meantime, the compensation paid by the packaging industry to municipalities for pmd is falling. Isn't that the wrong incentive? Mr. Chairman. Every week I stand with a package in my hand that I wonder whether or not I can put it in the pmd bin. The packaging industry doesn't really make it easy for consumers either. As a symbol for this, I'll take the potato bag. You'd think "pmd," but because of the aluminum foil, that bag has to be with the residual waste. Aluminium foil is already not fine and then it has to be with the residual waste: double unsustainable. With effect from 1 January, a removal fee with tariff differentiation shall apply. Recyclable packaging becomes cheaper than non-recycled packaging. That is a good step, but all packaging needs to be recyclable. How does the Secretary of State intend to do that? Mr. Chairman. From different churches and associations I get the signal that they want to deliver their waste separately, but that the municipality does not want to facilitate this. They simply don't get trash cans. Does the Secretary of State get those sounds? Is it prepared to investigate this in consultation with the VNG? It would be nice if everyone, including the churches and associations, could participate in separate collections. Mr. Chairman. When you travel by train, you make a sustainable choice, but what a disappointment when you arrive at the stations. Nowhere can you turn your garbage in separately, except at the 12 largest intercity stations. You can keep an eye on that, chairman. You can turn in your paper separately. We did that in my home back in the seventies of the last century. This can and should be done better. At the kiosks and other shops you buy mountains of plastic, but nowhere can you separate that. Secretary of State, we can't do this anymore. For years my group has been calling for attention to be paid to this. ProRail and NS should just do it now. The green deal that's been closed is hopelessly behind. Is the Secretary of State prepared to reach more ambitious agreements? Mr. Chairman. With our road infrastructure, there is still plenty of room to work on sustainable energy generation. In the future it may be possible to build solar panels on bicycle paths or escape lanes. That is now being experimented with. But already we can use the space on soundwalls. Would the Minister like to discuss this with Rijkswaterstaat? Mr. Chairman. With the Dik-Faber/Van Tongeren motion, the Chamber has declared that we are going to phase out fossil mopeds. What about the agreements with the industry? How are the conversations going? There is also a passage on this in the climate agreement in the cabinet's Juice, but as far as I am concerned, this does not mean that we should make a pass when it comes to discussions with the industry. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has committed itself in the EU to higher sustainability requirements for the production of cars, but the government itself must set a good example. Last year my motion was adopted on sustainable public procurement of vehicles, such as cars and buses. A benchmark of Nature & Environment shows that municipalities still hardly control sustainability in the choice of their vehicles and that only 8% meet the national sustainability criteria. What does the Secretary of State think of these figures? Is it prepared to step up the minimum criteria for the sustainable procurement of vehicles and does it see opportunities to conclude a covenant with municipalities on purchasing their own fleet in line with previous agreements for target transport and bus transport? This brings me to the subject of mobility. The forecasts are clear. Travel time and traffic jams will increase considerably in the coming years. This cabinet is going to tackle road and rail bottlenecks, but we also know that more and more asphalt will not solve the problem. That's why the Christian Union wants to work towards smart and clean mobility, such as stimulating car sharing, which is happening in Utrecht. I also mention the promotion of bicycles and e-bikes, for example through investments in bike highways. It is not for nothing that an investment of 100 million has been included in the coalition agreement. Earlier, a motion by Mr Sienot and me on the signage for high-speed charging stations along the highway was adopted. What about the execution, I ask one of the directors. I don't really know who's first to blame. It's the Minister, I see. The coalition agreement also agreed to carry out pilots to gain experience with alternative forms of payment. Ultimately, we will have to move towards smarter pricing of mobility. We were informed last week about the pilots with smart pricing. When will the pilots actually start? I can go along with the questions put by D66 on this subject. Last year the motion of the coalition parties was also adopted on the Northern Randweg Utrecht. I understand that the Minister does not see an opportunity to pay extra money for two additional tunnels for the NRU, the Northern Randweg Utrecht, which will reduce noise and particulate matter. However, the municipality and the province have made plans for this and also have money available for this. Doesn't the Minister really see any opportunities for this? Does she want to take another look at that? Mr. Chairman. What about the international rail agenda? It would be good if within Europe the train was the way to travel to the most obvious cities. I refer to Berlin, Paris, London, Brussels, Copenhagen and Prague, and I can go on for a while. In aviation, therefore, pollution must also be better priced. The flight tax should be set up in a policy manner, provided that this is feasible for the Tax Administration. It is important that legislation is ready immediately if no results are achieved at European level, so a proposal from the cabinet is now urgently needed. When can we expect this proposal? It is also good that Schiphol raises the rates for polluting and noisy aircraft. A motion by D66 and ChristenUnion was adopted earlier on. That has just been referred to. For both aviation and shipping, these should actually be included in the objectives of the Paris Agreement, including a firm pricing of CO emissions. Is the Secretary of State prepared to put this on the agenda at the climate summit in Poland?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u161	Before you go any further, Mrs Dik-Faber: you have one and a half minutes of the ten minutes you had signed up for the first and second term. You're about your own time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u162	Okay. This is my final point, Mr President. Inland waterway transport: by the end of 2018, there should be a green deal to make maritime, inland waterway and ports more sustainable. Inland navigation is crucial for making the so-called modal shift from road to water. Last year my motion was adopted to involve the inland waterway sector closely. In addition, the motion calls for cleaner engines and reduced waiting times at ports, locks and bridges to be part of the green deal. How did the Minister implement this motion? I am getting signals that Rijkswaterstaat is suffering from under-staffing of bridges and locks, which leads to delays. So much for my first-term input. I would like to thank the two directors in advance for their reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u163	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Raan, on behalf of the Animal Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u164	Mr. Chairman. It is the end of 2018 and it is time for a shrinkage of aviation, also in the Netherlands. We were the only party to say that for a long time, but since yesterday GroenLinks and the SGP have joined us. That's very good news. Thank you for that. Because a stop to growth can no longer be the compromise. That's not enough to keep global warming below one and a half degrees. Aviation is about to complete all the CO reduction plans made by other sectors. This also means that the planned opening of Lelystad Airport will only exacerbate this. I therefore ask the Minister to postpone the vote. The sooner, the better. The opening of Lelystad is also superfluous; the necessary shrinkage has that as a pleasant byproduct. The question is therefore: how long does this minister keep the aviation sector under control so that it can grow? And most importantly, why? Except for a few dubious lobbyists, no one in the Netherlands really understands that in 2018 we still do not charge excise duty on kerosene, we keep airline tickets artificially cheap and shiphole the interests of residents. As soon as it comes to real measures that are even a start in the right direction, such as a lean flight tax, the sector suddenly acts like a child who cannot get what it wants. That is more than embarrassing, because it is a consistent blackmail of effective climate policy. The worst part is that it is also aware because the consequences are known. And if conscious sabotage is at issue and one is aware of the consequences, then that is not innocent. And who believes the air carrier sector, and with it the Minister, in fact? Therefore, just before the summer, I tabled with Mr Bruins on supporting interest groups and residents of airports. What is the state of play in the implementation of this motion? And what about the motion adopted that defines nuisance more broadly than noise? Indeed, in all its scenarios, the Decisio report on SME includes the remaining external effects as memorandum items. Four scenarios have been created and you are talking about spatiality, security, nature and landscape. For the listener, memorandum items are items you don't know yet how big they are. And if you don't know that, you just say, "I don't know; I'll just put them down as a pro remembrance." That's unheard of. The climate station is not based on 1,5 oC and actually such a report can then enter the trash. Will the Minister do that or will she fix it with a serious 1.5 oC scenario? I'd like a response. Finally. Can the Minister explain exactly what powers are being taken away from the Netherlands and Europe by continuing to agree with CORSIA? For example, the Minister can also rule out oil-oil! Within CORSIA, if a green fuel can be counted. Mr President, I will conclude, because then we will go to the main course, my colleague's maiden speech. A shrinkage in the number of flights is the logical consequence of the current timing. Shrink, chairman! And it's a good thing we're not the only ones who argue for this anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u165	Thank you. That raises another question for Mr Paternotte. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u166	Mr Van Raan was quite early on in calling for 300,000 flight movements and thus almost halfway to Schiphol. That's Van Raan's evil plan. Schiphol has, of course, a lot of flights from people who change there. They're people who don't want to go to Amsterdam. They want to go somewhere else. If you shrink Schiphol, those people are going to change airports. We know that aviation is growing enormously in China and India and that Dutch aviation is a very small part in that respect. That is why I said that I think we should bring the rest of the world with us. My question is, what exactly do you intend to achieve by reducing Schiphol Airport and, therefore, allowing people to switch to other airports?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u167	It's ironic, Chairman, that my time stops at 747. Well, that's a nice coincidence, then. Maybe it's a sign! Two responses to that. Firstly, it is, of course, extremely presumptuous that we have been flying here for decades and that, as soon as developing countries start doing so, we will immediately say: you must not do that; you cannot do that! It is a fact that the entire aviation must shrink. The sooner we do that, the sooner we develop alternatives and the sooner we find that 8% of the people in the Netherlands cause 40% of the flights, the better that is. So it also applies to emerging economies, countries like India and China. There must also be a brake on aviation. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u168	I don't know if you should call China another developing country. In the meantime, it is the largest polluter in the world. My question is whether you will at least agree with me on the following. If we create innovations in the Netherlands that will make aviation 1% sustainable, will we not achieve this more for the climate than with the whole plan of the Party for Animals to halve Schiphol?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u169	Not in advance. I am very much looking forward to working with Paternotte to achieve an excise duty on fuel. Let's focus on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u170	Another question from Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u171	I didn't have that much time anymore, but I did have some interruptions. Mr Van Raan, of course, sets out a very broad perspective, namely that the world needs to be better and more environmentally friendly. We can also agree on certain aspects of this. In the Netherlands, we are right to focus on some points, for example a tax or a tax on contaminated airplanes in order to prevent them. But those planes are there, of course. A comparison with cars was just made, but a plane can't be written off in a few years. Those planes are going to other countries. How do you look at that effect? You make it all expensive here and want to have it all neatly here, but those planes go to Africa, Asia or South America to fly nicely there. How does the Party look for the Animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u172	Thanks for the question. I would like to make two comments. The first concerns the acquisition of sustainable aircraft by the sector. For example, the KLM recently purchased aircraft again, but these are not the most sustainable aircraft. The sector itself could do its utmost to purchase the most sustainable aircraft, but that is not the case. Secondly, Mr Amhaouch says that the planes are going to other countries. I can say two things about that. Other countries will also have to comply with the Paris agreements. We're not gonna negotiate with Earth for a while, in the vein of: sorry, we're not doing any warming, because those planes went to some country. That's one. The second point is more fundamental. The CDA turns it into some kind of inverse reasoning. We're not going to introduce child labour here again, are we? That is a specific example. We are not saying: we can create a little better working conditions here, creating a little better race to the bottom, with lower labour costs, and that's why we do that? So these planes must also be phased out. We can't choose anymore or anything; that time is over. If we'd started earlier, maybe we could've done it, but we can't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u173	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u174	Yeah? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u175	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Teunissen. It's her first speech in this room, her maiden speech. This means that the other Members of Parliament are not allowed to ask questions. I wish Mrs Teunissen, who speaks on behalf of the Animal Party, every success. Enjoy it, too, such a first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u176	Mr President, thank you very much. "It's hard to be modest when you're as good as me." These winged words by Peter Blanker made me think when I read the budget's self-congratulations of the Minister and the Secretary of State. According to them, the Netherlands is doing well when it comes to the environment. We're an example to the rest of the world. Within the EU, we would be at the forefront of responsible handling of raw materials and packaging, and our infrastructure is of absolute world class. The existence of different realities is as old as Plato's theory of ideas, but the question is what reality the cabinet lives in, all the more so since this spring CBS announced that the Netherlands is the world's dirtiest boy in the classroom. Our country is downright bad in terms of climate and energy. In addition, 12,000 people die prematurely every year from the effects of air pollution. That's 33 victims a day. The plastic garbage is building up. Last week, for the first time, microplastics were found in humans. Even in our deepest fibers, to speak with the Prime Minister, we are no longer safe. That sounds very different from the Netherlands as a European environmental policy champion. The system of linear economic growth squeaks and creaks and seizes our environment in an unacceptable way. Yes, we buy prosperity for it, but a prosperity that mainly consists of tinkering gold: increasing pollution, more and more victims of our successful economic growth. Economic growth is not the solution but the problem. Mr. Chairman. The transition to a circular economy is one of the priorities of this cabinet. Here lies a golden opportunity for the climate and the living environment. We need to get rid of a system of raw material destruction, of the disposable company. Safer handling of raw materials should be a priority, for example by reducing the excessive use of packaging. Within the framework of the European Strategy, the Animal Party has received two motions for resolutions on this matter. One requested clear production arrangements aimed at reducing the number of plastics and the other aimed at increasing the mandatory share of recycling. Can the Secretary of State indicate how the implementation of these motions is progressing? Are there any concrete arrangements yet? The current system has not yet been designed for recycling. For example, more than 250 different types of plastic have been incorporated into products. That makes recycling difficult, sometimes even impossible. Mrs Dik-Faber also mentioned it a moment ago: a crispy bag, for example, can never become a new crispy bag. That packaging simply consists of too many different types of materials. Where recycling of plastics is possible, there appears to be insufficient market outlets, because new plastics from oil are much cheaper. At the moment, we are even facing a waste crisis; there is a huge pile of plastic industrial waste that is no longer recycled but burned. China is no longer interested in our plastic industrial waste and home-grown processors think recycling is simply too expensive. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about this? What measures is it going to take to regulate the recycling of plastic industrial waste? Mr. Chairman. The transition to a circular economy will not benefit if separate waste ends up in one pile. Yet that is what happens to passenger waste at NS stations. That's deadly for the support for recycling. There appears to be an underlying problem: waste sorters do not want to accept passenger waste because it is labelled as industrial waste and the Waste Packing Fund only provides money for the processing of packaging and not for the treatment of industrial waste. But passenger waste consists of packaging; the term "business waste" is not appropriate. Several sectors are running into this. Can the Secretary of State promise that she'll pick this up? Mr. Chairman. In order to tackle climate change, emissions from traffic must go to zero. At the climate table the solution is currently being sought in biofuels for aircraft, shipping, freight and cars. But biofuels are not only very scarce, they are also at great risk. The use of food crops is accompanied by global deforestation and biodiversity loss. There is no climate gain: food biodiesel emits on average twice as much CO as fossil diesel, and biodiesel from palm oil even three times as much. The Secretary of State knows this. She was right when she said during the debate on the circular economy that the broad debate on biomass still needs to take place and that we still need to identify how much is available and how biomass can be used the most high-quality. But the run on biofuels has been going on for a long time, even before that discussion started. The cabinet is even considering increasing the percentage of mandatory blending of biofuels. How does the Secretary of State prevent many more unsustainable biofuels from entering the tank as a result? How can this be prevented at the expense of ecosystems, soil or food availability? Does she enter into the discussion for the conclusion of the climate table? Mr. Chairman. When a report came out last week about the increasing traffic congestion pressure, we immediately saw the fossil reflex to push again on even more asphalt. It seems as if the concept of the fundamental traffic law has never penetrated: more asphalt creates more traffic and ultimately even longer traffic jams. Why is there still more structural investment in asphalt than in rail? How strange is it that the government, which says it wants to fight the traffic problem, increases the price of train tickets and thereby stimulates car use? The only right step now is to stop the VAT increase on train tickets and to reduce that VAT to zero. I'd like a response from the Minister. We must not increase the burden on the use of trains, one of the most sustainable forms of transport, but rather give them a boost, create more capacity and make them more attractive to cars and aircraft. Mr. Chairman. Then let's move on to environmental permits. The government is allocating 200 million for the rehabilitation of pig farms in East Brabant, because the burden on local residents is too great. The Minister of LNV assumes that the permits for ever new megasts have been issued for years within the existing possibilities. To cause nuisance and then to clean up for 200 million, within the framework of the law: that screams for tightening up. How is the Secretary of State going to prevent any further nuisance and to restore hundreds of millions of jobs? Will it now tighten up environmental legislation? Mr. Chairman. Then I shall move on to another point of environmental legislation, the protection of residents from agricultural poison. More than six months ago, my group asked the Minister of Agriculture and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State to talk to the people of the Bollenboos Foundation, who have been working for years to improve the protection of residents against the use of agricultural poison. Has this visit taken place yet? If so, what did the Secretary of State take from these talks? Finally, Mr President. Set a good example. Only by focusing on less meat, fish and dairy consumption can we achieve the Paris climate goals. Like no other, the Secretary of State is in favour of the government as a launching customer and this concept can be extended to the menu of its ministry. D66 Senator Henriëtte Prast has developed a great idea about how we can easily change the social norm from meat to vegetable. If you want a vegetable meal from now on, you don't have to mention it specifically. But if you eat meat, pass it along. In other words, carnivore, pass it on. Is the Secretary of State prepared to introduce this promising and very necessary concept of her party into its ministry? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u177	Thank you. Congratulations on your maiden speech. I would like to congratulate you on this, and I would ask you to take a seat so that your group colleagues, as well as all the other Members of Parliament and staff, can congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u178	I'll resume the meeting. I would ask Members to take a seat again. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn, who speaks on behalf of the 50PLUS Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Over the last few months, we have talked about a lot of issues. Many investigations are ongoing and many commitments have been made. I am going through a number of things that require rapid action on 50PLUS, and that is also possible. Good and affordable public transport, also for less mobile people, is such a point. This is essential for participation in society and for combating loneliness. Our mobility is increasing in all sections of the population. A lower income should not be a breaking point. Pilots of Mobility as a Service are in the scaffolding. There were still a number of points of interest, for example coordination between providers and ICT. Can the Minister say anything about the progress of the pilots? Affordability is an important issue as far as we are concerned. The NS has published its new rates and prices are rising again. The prices of bus and tram also go up. This discourages people from leaving the car more often, and that is precisely what is needed, isn't it also the view of this government, for the sake of the environment alone? I would ask the rulers whether they agree with 50PLUS that these price increases are contrary to government policy. Why are they letting this happen? What opportunities does the government see for keeping public transport more affordable? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS is mordicus against market forces in public transport. It all sounds very nice, but in practice it only amounts to competition based on price. Other things, such as working conditions and clean alternatives, will help. We also read that last week in Home Office. Municipalities are still buying massive non-sustainable transport and that really has to be different. I'd like a response. In addition, we must strive for a balanced distribution of costs in terms of flight and train. The polluter really has to pay now. It is crazy enough to keep aviation out of the climate agreement, and it is even crazier for airlines to spend money when you book a ticket with them, while a train ticket on the same route costs a lot more and you are on the road even longer. That is in any case inexplicable and, as far as we are concerned, it really cannot be explained anymore. The government is trying to figure out the best way to do this. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, a flight tax can be a way, given that flying is now completely unloaded. It is also reasonable for short flights to be taxed relatively more heavily than long ones, because alternatives are available at short distances. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the proceeds could benefit from this alternative: international medium-distance rail traffic. That's gotta be much better anyway. Another possibility is that an aircraft charge is introduced: the more polluting the aircraft is, the higher the charge. That can certainly have a regulatory effect. We need to make much more use of this internationally. As far as we are concerned, this is inevitable, both in terms of price and speed. I'd like a reaction to that. We look forward to the new Strategic Road Safety Plan coming to the Chamber shortly. We are also awaiting SWOV's report on scootmobile research. I have heard that this is being discussed at the beginning of December. Due to the situation around the Stint this subject has been given extra charge. During oral Question Time, the Secretary of State promised to at least talk to the Minister about a form of training or explanation about the use of the scooter. 50PLUS likes to hear if that's already happened. We still have a specific question. Is the new plan looking at zebra paths? Very often they do run over the lane, but they do not cross the bike paths. I'd like a response to that. The government wants to reduce litter, and so does 50PLUS. For plastic bottles, the government wants to see if the agreements with the industry are sufficient for the intended purpose. We doubt that. However, the government is taking measures that may lead to more litter. We find it incomprehensible that the government wants to lower VAT on bottles of water and increase VAT on tap water. There's gotta be another way. As far as we're concerned, it could be different. 50PLUS made the choice in its counter-budget to remove the tax on water, the sphere. This amendment will be submitted to the Tax Plan. Drinking water is literally a first need for life and it cannot be made more expensive as a result of an increase in VAT. As far as we're concerned, that's the world upside down. I would also like to comment on this. As Ambassador of SDG-6, I stand for clean water and good sanitation. Of course there will be a legislative consultation on water, but I still have a few general comments. Apart from water quality, water safety is an increasingly important issue. This summer we have seen extremes in the weather getting bigger and bigger: from drought to extreme showers with water flooding. That happens regularly in Meerssen. Do we now have to look again to see if our measures comply with acute water pollution? Indeed, more and more innovations are being developed. At Flood Proof Holland, for example, you have alternatives for heavy sandbags that make the application much easier. Does the Minister know these alternatives? Does she know the BoxBarrier? How does she feel about that? We want more opportunities for lighter, faster and more appropriate developments, and we are considering an amendment on this point. I'd like a response from the Minister. There is an increasing lack of maintenance for a number of indicators for water safety, such as dikes and dunes. How does this relate to the increase in the amount of late maintenance which the Court of Auditors also notes? How are we supposed to weigh this? Isn't this how safety is at stake? Aren't we gonna bring trouble to our own? The IPO, the VNG and the Union of Water Boards have often indicated that they need additional resources for climate adaptation to keep our feet dry. 50PLUS also considers climate adaptation to be a high priority. How does the Minister see that? The emission of particulate matter and ultra-fine dust is an increasing problem around airports and on busy, transitory roads in cities. That's why the Secretary of State is working on the Clean Air Agreement. We look forward to that. Is it still on schedule? Recently it also appeared that a lot of people suffer from environmental noise. Over a third of the houses are in a place with a lot of noise. That is frisky for health and can lead to many health problems, such as cardiovascular diseases. What is the Secretary of State going to do about this and what does she think of the idea of a national noise tax plan? Then sustainable transport. Recently a Dutch brand, Lightyear, presented a prototype electric car on solar cells. It is wonderful to see that in several areas such beautiful innovations are being developed in our country. We should be proud of that. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, this is the future. Is the Minister prepared to pursue this in any way possible? My colleague Sazias recently suggested that the plates of electric cars should be changed. 50PLUS thinks this can have a stimulating effect. After all, it improves visibility. The Minister for Economic Affairs found this interesting. How does this minister view this? Only emission-free new cars can be sold in 2030. We have a proper loading infrastructure in the Netherlands, as has been said. Nevertheless, only 1.4% of the total Dutch fleet is electric or a plug-in. Norway strives only for emission-free cars by 2025. In September of this year alone 45% of newly sold cars were electric. That sounds like we can learn something from Norway. What possibilities does the Minister see for taking additional measures to improve this? Mr. Chairman. Something beautiful deserves a stage. I am talking about the initiative of Zuid-Holland: the first CO-negative road from the Netherlands. We can be very proud of that. Heat generation from the bike path, asphalt processed at a low temperature, fungi that remove tar from the old asphalt; it's just a selection of the twenty innovations that have been applied. In addition to CO savings, the condition was that it should be applied to other roads. Is this not the time to demand CO-neutral or even CO-negative in all tenders in the Netherlands? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns what Mr Dijkstra of the VVD said: filming accidents with a mobile phone. In Germany they have strict legislation and high fines. Is it not time to introduce this into the Netherlands? As far as 50PLUS is concerned, that would be very desirable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u180	Thank you. Mrs Van Brenk, you have asked a few questions that actually belong to the WHO Water. I will leave it to the Minister to answer those questions tomorrow in the first term of the cabinet, or to take them to the WHO. I just wanted to make that clear. I should now like to give the floor to Mr Stoffer. Mr Stoffer spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u181	Thank you, Mr President. In my opinion, the Animal Party is no longer present, but I would also like to congratulate and congratulate Mrs Teunissen from this place on her maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. Last summer I was in Africa, in Uganda. A few weeks later, the very first stretch of highway was opened. It was already there. It is a very small quadruple road from Entebbe to Kampala. When I came by there and came over too, because you were already allowed to get over it, without any toll I thought: what a good job we have in the Netherlands. It was built and funded by the Chinese. There was a heavy toll to be paid. The taxi driver who drove me over it a few times said: in a few weeks I won't drive over it anymore; then I just go over that little unsafe road that I crossed earlier. Then I realized that we have done very well here in the Netherlands. Our roads are in the top three of the world and our water state is world famous for a reason. Still, there's always something to wish for. There's always something better. We also have a number of points. I would just like to mention this, because of course nothing can be said at all. The first thing I want to talk about is road safety, because that is something we can really improve in our country as well. The cold figures are over 600 road deaths and more than 20,000 serious injuries, if that's all the complete figures; we'll have heard more about that later. A great deal of suffering lies behind that. The target of up to 500 road deaths and 10,000 serious injuries is still far out of reach. The Minister is working on a strategic road safety plan. Our question is therefore whether this will be a plan à la the effective Sustainable Safe Programme, on the basis of which many successes have been achieved in the past, or to use a better term: many good things have happened. 'Cause we're a long way from here. For example, half of the provincial roads are still relatively unsafe. In short: is there a serious investment programme behind it, as was the case in the past with Sustainable Safe? Mr. Chairman. The Minister pays EUR 50 million once for improving the safety of N roads, including EUR 25 million for provincial roads. That's a very good start. 20% of road deaths are on provincial roads, which make up only 6% of our road network. So there's really something to do there. But as far as we are concerned, something more needs to be done, and that is why we have tabled an amendment to add more than 10 million to it. We have found the coverage of this in the extra proceeds of the Eurovignette. We'd like to hear the Minister's views on that. We also, of course, call for a structural regulation and approach. Mr. Chairman. I understand that new calculations show that the introduction of the new rail security system will cost EUR 2 billion more than previously thought. Thanks to Mr Ziengs, I also know what the abbreviation ERTMS means; I had read it once, but now I know it all. Our question is exactly what this is about. Isn't it better to keep those two billion in our pockets for safer roads and less traffic congestion? Because we have heard it several times today: traffic is stuck again. The KiM expects an increase in the fileled by 35% towards 2023. The Minister has an approach, but that is mainly a short-term approach. Among other things, she wants salvage companies to stand by at about 20 locations. But are all file sensitive locations also adequately controlled with this? I'd like a quick execution of what's now on the table. But for the longer term more is needed. My interruption to the VVD earlier was also aimed at that longer term: investments in additional road capacity are good. We are in favour of this; it is necessary. And yes, Mrs Kröger, that really does something. For years I have tried my best as an official to lay down asphalt everywhere, and I have actually seen the result of that. So anyway, on the basis of nineteen years of practical experience, I can't say anything other than: that really does something. But more needs to be done than that. To really tackle these traffic jams, experts say, we need to do more than just lay extra asphalt. We are also thinking of a type of mileage tax. And no, as I say in the direction of the VVD, I do not mean a mileage tax that makes the car an extra milk cow again. It has to be budget neutral, but in a way where you can turn the buttons a little bit to get rid of those traffic jams in that respect. I understand that this leads to a lot of hilarity, but I cannot dwell on that for too long, because my time is running out. So if that's really necessary, then I can see it coming through interruptions. Mr. Chairman. For many drivers it is not yet a serious alternative, partly because of the expensive train ticket. The NS indicated that the recent VAT increase will make train tickets at least 5% more expensive. As far as we are concerned, and it has also been appointed earlier, a VAT exemption could be a very good incentive. However, the European VAT Directive does not allow for this at the moment. So our question is whether the Secretary of State, which I think is about, would like to raise this in Brussels. As far as we are concerned, it is really bizarre that there is an exemption for the lottery, but not for the train. That's what I call betting on the wrong horse. Mr. Chairman. Inland waterway transport is also a good alternative to road transport, but I miss a clear policy on modal shift. Does the Minister want to come up with an objective and set a course for it? For example, we must prevent small ships from being regulated away. These ships can enter the capillaries of the waterway network. A while ago, as a SGP, we spoke to a group of inland waterway operators, and I have two specific questions. The first question is as follows: when does the Minister ensure recognition of measuring the pipe so that it can be included in the ship's certificates? For the emission standards, it should not matter whether you install a new engine or adjust the existing engine. In view of Rotterdam's intention to create an environmental area for inland waterway vessels, this recognition must be speeded up as far as we are concerned. Then there's my second question. Schippers indicated that they feel that there is insufficient follow-up if they have complaints about late maintenance of waterways, bridges and locks in their eyes. I'd like to pass it on, and I'll see if there's a reaction to that. As a follow-up to this, I would like to say the following. The General Court writes that the volume of delayed infrastructure maintenance is therefore not delayed maintenance, but delayed maintenance is growing faster than the available maintenance budget, with all the risks involved. Does the Minister recognize this? How would she want to prevent this in the near future? Mr. Chairman. Then the flight tax. A lot has been said about it. In view of the time I really want to confine myself to the story mentioned earlier by D66 and on which we have tabled a motion together. That's what we stand for. I'm not gonna repeat that again. The only thing I would like to mention is that, in addition to international agreements on kerosene taxation, we agree that the ticket tax should be applied in the short term. Mr. Chairman. Then there's asbestos remodeling. That is a subject that has been mentioned before. A number of parties have already talked about it. When you're like this at the end, you've actually heard everything come along once, but I've got one new thing in a minute. There has been a strong debate on the mandatory clean-up of asbestos roofs. We too are very concerned about implementation. The 75 million-dollar grant pool is empty. First of all, I am curious about the creativity of the Secretary of State. If it does not get too creative, I would of course like to look at the SP amendment, where I am very curious about the coverage, because I have not yet seen it. But in any case, a motion has already been passed in which the Chamber has asked for a national fund for owners who cannot afford the restoration. Our question is therefore whether the rulers are prepared to pay enough money for this, so that this fund actually and with enough firepower will come out of the ground. Finally, I have a question about environmental pressures from drugs. This is my final point, Mr President. Do the leaders have a picture of the environmental pressures of hemp farms, drug labs and drug imports? It is often about crime and health aspects, while the environmental pressure is also very high. Just look at the dozens of dumping of drug waste in the wild and the huge demand for electricity from hemp farms. That's already at 0.4 megaton of CO. Also look at the discharges of drugs into the sewers. With this cabinet's drug deal, I'm just gonna name him one more time. It's not gonna get any better. And I am not talking about the environmental pressures of imported drugs and drug commodities. Let me ask you again: does the cabinet have this environmental pressure in mind? In the dumping of drug waste, innocent landowners face tens of thousands of euros in clean-up costs. Unfortunately, the system for the reimbursement of these costs has ended. Several ministries are in consultation with the provinces on the follow-up to this arrangement. Can I assume that the discussion is not about whether there should be a compensation, but about how it is going to be arranged? I would like to be clear very quickly, because in the case of asbestos dumping, landowners are divided into the same costs in the stomach. Are the rulers taking this too? Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u182	You have another question from Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u183	I waited until the end of the speech of the SGP. We are registered partners on SDG 6. I would very much like to know how the SGP looks at the fact that bottles of water are going to be cheaper than tap water, because they are getting VAT, while they are getting rid of bottles of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u184	We think that's horrible. Yesterday was the first deadline for the budget of Economic Affairs. I made that point very clear at the time. So we totally agree on that, but I thought: given the time I have to choose now and my registered partner calls that. And it's like at home: if Sophia says it, I'm not gonna say it again. But thank you for saying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u185	Thank you. Another question from Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u186	There are all kinds of ideas about drinking water, but does the SGP know what a person will pay more for drinking water per year according to these proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u187	Not exactly. It's not that much either. It's not about a lot of money. It is about how this comes together now, about the fact that a bottle of water becomes relatively cheaper than tap water. I understand that that's a good thing, because that's to prevent us from doing anything with other juices that are less healthy. But the point is, with that bottle of water, you've got all the bottle like garbage. So we'd like you to just take that tap water with your own bottle. A very good example of this is that drinking water companies are already setting up these taps at train stations. I think the Secretary of State was there. We like that movement. We would like to see the use of tap water encouraged rather than just a little bit slowed down. But I agree with you that it's not about big money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u188	Of course I am also very happy with the tap points that are coming to stations, so that people will drink more tap water and buy less plastic bottles. At the same time, this cabinet has taken the path of higher charges on consumption and lower charges on labour. I think that's very justifiable. Finally, let me give you the answer to the question: per person per year you will pay €0.02 extra in drinking water.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u189	Mr. Stoffer, would you care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u190	No, because it wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u191	It wasn't really a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u192	It was an answer. So thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u193	I would like to thank you very much and finally give the floor to Mr Azarkan. He is speaking on behalf of the DENK Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u194	Mr President, thank you. I too would like to congratulate the colleague of the Animal Party, Mrs Teunissen. Hell of a job. I had the opportunity to debate with her once a year and a half ago, and I was very impressed at the time. Mr. Chairman. Allow me to begin with the traffic jams. Who doesn't know her? It's been memorized by a lot of people. They lead to billions of euros of economic damage. That sounds quite serious, of course, but still somewhat abstract. Much more tangible it gets when we think of the annoyance of people who are in that traffic jam. 'Cause do you ever? Full of stress in traffic, knowing that in half an hour the crèche will close, while Google Maps will color the highways red, with your toddler on your retina, who will be the last to make the same puzzle in crèche for the umpteenth time, and in the background the cleaning lady who cleans up the vacuum cleaner. That statue. Mr. Chairman. And what does the Minister say? "I can't do that much." Literally she says: "Actually, growth is just not keeping up. We invest, but that's not enough." The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats believes that this is too weak, too little and too fatalistic. Experts say it's not gonna matter much if we build highways, especially in the short term. So as far as we're concerned, you have to do something else. Can we indeed experiment with charging, a mileage price that depends on where, when and with how much you drive, with smart technology that can drive that effortlessly? Research shows that traffic on the road can reduce by 50%. And can't you increase the number of people per car? If the four of you are in the car, you don't pay; if you're alone, you pay the full price. Perhaps there is also a way to find more creative solutions. Why don't you give market players an incentive? If they come up with a proposal that works, they get a fee for it. So you can spend that money in a different way, more effective, and perhaps based on no cure, no pay. Let's take a look at that. We politicians and civil servants cannot always make it up. Let's also find the strength in the market. Mr. Chairman. Then something about driving. That is becoming more and more an elite case. For example, the increase in parking rates in Amsterdam to €7.50 per hour. That's just elite parking or, as you wish, cartel parking. It was introduced by Sharon Dijksma of the PvdA, with the support of GroenLinks, D66 and the SP. What kind of canal belt socialism is that? Business guys on the Zuidas laugh out of their pants at that €7.50 an hour, because they earn that in a curse and a sigh again. But for ordinary people, isn't that how you make Amsterdam an impregnable fortress? Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen already called this plan "to bully a car." No, Minister, this is bullying people with a small wallet. Can the Minister do something about that? Is she going to address Amsterdam? Are there other ways to whistle back Amsterdam? Mr. Chairman. The same is true of the environmental areas in the cities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u195	Before you proceed, there is a question or an interruption by Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u196	Yeah, about those expensive parking rates. From my own experience: I lived in Slotermeer for almost ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u197	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u198	There it is very good parking. The residents can get a parking permit for something of €25 a year I don't know exactly how much it was. That's fine over there. So I don't understand this. Look, you want to be less busy downtown, so you can have fewer cars on the canals, that makes sense. But where people really live I lived there at least with a lot of pleasure, like a lot of other people it's fine to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u199	I think the honourable Member has been misinformed. The plan indicates that the rates are also increased in other places, otherwise you will have a waterbed effect. So also in other places in Amsterdam, parking charges go up. Otherwise you'll get a shift of the problem. Moreover, you may not have so many people coming to visit you, but other people have family members and are being hunted at huge costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u200	Your last question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u201	I agree with Mr Azarkan that it should be possible for everyone, no matter how large or small your wallet, to park. But I would point out that in the residential areas of Amsterdam it is just fine parking so far, especially if you have a parking permit. You can also have your family parked there. They will have to pay a little, but of course not the rates we know in the center.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u202	Those aren't exactly the same rates, but those rates are also going up, Mr. Van Dijk. Mr. Chairman. Then something about the environmental zones. What does the Minister think of the fact that 20% of all cars are excluded?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u203	Before you proceed, there is a final question from Mr Paternotte. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u204	I was called out for a moment and when I came back it was about parking rates in Amsterdam, but I didn't really want to ask a question about that. In Amsterdam, almost half of the transport movements consist of taxis. These are very often petrol and diesel taxis, and we must make them more sustainable. Would DENK also be in favour of a green deal for zero emission taxis?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u205	I spoke in my speech about the high parking rates and Mr Paternotte's proposal concerns a green deal for taxis. I am in favour of taxis giving as little emission as possible. I have also read that people who can pay it often seek a hybrid solution, but not everyone can either. So the question is not so much whether we agree on how clean that can be. For us, it is always the question of how feasible it is. So if it is phased out and there is a right to investments that others have already made, I can go a long way with you. Mr. Chairman. Then something about the environmental zones, for the third time. What does the Minister think of the fact that 20% of all cars are excluded? Here, too, it appears that ordinary people are often the hardest hit, because they cannot buy a new car as soon as possible. On the subject of public transport, the State Secretary indicated that the platforms and trains were overcrowded. I notice that every day, but what is the Secretary of State going to do about these overcrowded trains in rush hour? What does the government say to people who do not live in the Randstad and who have to deal with train connections that become less frequent? More driving in the Randstad doesn't have to be at the expense of connections outside the Randstad? And can the Secretary of State do anything about those increasingly expensive train tickets? Is the government prepared, for example, to meet low-income people at lower rates? You can give them an advantage card, so they can travel outside rush hour at a 40% discount. Finally, Mr. Chairman, I'm coming to the taxi business. I've been talking to some taxi companies. For DENK the traditional taxis are just as important as the new forms like Uber. Competition is good, but we get the impression that they are very often asking for fair and just competition, for a level playing field, to use a bad Dutch word. And, of course, the municipalities are about regulation and enforcement, but I would ask the Minister to discuss these issues with these cities. Finally, Mr President, I would like to mention the taxi insurance premiums. Many insurers have stopped insuring taxis, and the remaining insurers have now increased their rates extremely. Can the Minister do something about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u206	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber of Budgetary Treatment Infrastructure and Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u207	This debate will continue tomorrow. Tomorrow evening at 7.30 p.m., the first term of office of the directors will begin to answer the questions. Then you can file motions in second term. I shall now suspend the sitting until 5:45 p.m. Then we will continue with the report on general consultations on immigration and asylum policy.
