ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the proposal for an own-initiative act (Temporary Act for the adjustment of the discount rate of Mr Van Rooijen, Section 34606). I would like to welcome Mr Van Rooijen. He is supported in the defence of his proposal in trade union K by Mr Lutjens, Professor of Pension Law of the VU in Amsterdam, Mr De Brouwer, Chairman of the Association of Oud-Hoogovens Employees and author of the book "21 myths and falsehoods about retirement," and Mr Van Kuijk and Mr Van den Brink, both collaborators of the 50PLUS group. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Of course, we also welcome the people in the public gallery and the viewers. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The continuation of this debate will be planned in consultation with the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u2	I would now like to give the floor as the first speaker from the Chamber to Mr Van der Linde, who will speak on behalf of the VVD Group. We'll do the interruptions in two. I call Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about an important security: your pension. If you've worked hard for 40 or 50 years, you simply don't want to worry about your income after that. In the Netherlands we have done quite well: you spend your whole life some money, your boss does the same and the pension fund tries to invest it nicely. Every year you get a letter containing what you can expect after your retirement date. With a bit of luck, your pension fund invests that investment so well that your pension benefits can get bigger with inflation or even more; that's what we call indexing. And that's where the problem lies. Although pension funds are doing their best, there is not enough money in the pot to increase all pension benefits. Our older people are getting older than we ever thought possible, which is particularly nice, but it does mean something for the expenditure of pension funds. And in the past...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u4	An interruption by Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u5	I would like to ask the VVD the following. I'm sure you've read our note on the questions and so on. Can you indicate what has changed in the pension jars over the last ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u6	I do not know exactly where Mrs Van Brenk is going with this, but of course it is well known to me that there is 1 300 billion in it. That's not the problem either. I'm just trying to explain: yes, only that money is badly needed. This is urgently needed for several reasons. It's necessary because people are getting older than we ever thought possible. I just said that this is only very nice, but it does mean something for pension funds. In the past, perhaps more generously indexed than we do now. We'll pay a price for that, too. We have to face that. We've made certain commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u7	Indeed, over the last ten years, pension assets have risen from 700 billion to 1,300 billion. So you're saying there's not enough in those jars is really bullshit. I'd like the VVD to acknowledge that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u8	Well, I wasn't actually planning on doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u9	Another interruption by Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u10	There's 1,300 billion euros in cash. Pension funds have EUR 1,300 billion in cash. And yet it is, and that is what we are talking about today, that there is a threat of discounts. That's the story we're talking about today, discounts. The 50PLUS initiative proposal seeks to avoid unnecessary discounts. I would like to know from the VVD Group whether they also want to ensure, for all those people who have not been indexed in recent years, that the pension pots are overflowing with the money, as a small compensation for all these years, that we avoid unnecessary discounts in the coming years. What's the VVD group like in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u11	There's a problem here. The moment we make that promise to people, when we don't know how the economy is going to move forward, and say that we're also going to index. You're just gonna take on the next generations and so on the pensions of future generations. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps it would be more convenient if I finished my speech on this point, because this is a bit of the heart of the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u12	I am looking at Mr De Jong, because he is in the middle of an interruption. I can therefore imagine that he would like an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u13	I get the indexing trick. I am in favour of this, by the way, because I would very much like pensions to be indexed. There is room for that too, but it is a political choice and that political choice is not made by the majority of this Chamber. However, we are talking today about preventing discounts. That's what this is about today. My question to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is therefore clear. Why don't you say now, if you look at this proposal - a temporary measure that lasts up to five years - that we will at least ensure that pension funds now have the space to compensate for all those people who have fallen behind in recent years and have not had any indexation for years, by avoiding unnecessary discounts? That's what we're talking about today. Why does the VV Group not just say: yes, this is a good initiative and let us at least ease the pain for the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u14	I would ask you to keep the interruptions brief and forceful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u15	I also want us to be able to tell an honest story to people. That fair story is not: we ignore what is happening in the market, act as if nothing is going on, and we give you complete certainty. If we promise certainty now, in a few years' time we'll be faced with it. That's not a fair story. That is not an honest story for the people who have a pension now, and that is certainly not a fair story for the people who are building a pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u16	Over the past ten years, pension funds have had to count on a return of around 2%. Can the VVD indicate what the yields of pension funds have been for the past ten years, on average?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u17	If the actual returns are so much higher than the arithmetic rate, then there comes a time when you can say: we now have so much money in cash that we can index. But that is not the case now, because life expectancy has risen and there are all kinds of other problems. That interest rate is also a problem. I'll get back to you on that. This is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u18	These returns, I will help the VVD, were between 6% and 7%, while pension funds had to rely on a 2% return and now even 1.5%. They must not only do this now, but they must rely on that return for years to come. With the SP, does the VVD see that pension funds are performing very well, that good returns are being achieved there and that thus reducing pensions is unnecessary and undesirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u19	Let's be happy with the good returns, but let's wait until the money is actually in before we spend it. That money isn't in yet, because then the coverage scales would be much higher. I'm getting more technical than I wanted to be, but if you step into a pension fund right now at 25, the premium coverage rate is 70%, 80% of the large pension funds. In other words, a starter starts losing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mrs. Van Benk, you've just made an interruption on this block. I should therefore like to suggest that Mr Van der Linde continue his speech and that you interrupt again afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr President, if I may, because the VVD really speaks falsehoods. Mr Van der Linde is talking about'reality', but we are not talking about the whole system. We are talking about the reality that the European Central Bank is manipulating interest rates. That is what this proposal is about. This proposal says that the interest that we and pension funds have to count on is no good; it has been manipulated and brought down at least 1%. This proposal says: let us lay a bottom and make sure that we do not cut millions of people, because this interest rate is no good. Mr Van der Linde says: that is the reality. It's no good, it's not right! So, Mr. Van der Linde, you agree that millions of people will be threatened with a discount by 2020 and you won't do anything about it. And you think that's the reality. That's really not the one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you. I'd like to speak through the chairman. I call Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u23	Well, maybe Mrs. Van Brenk and I are both a little bit right. Look, we're not happy with the ECB's monetary policy -- that's not a secret -- but then that's the reality in the market: this is the risk-free interest rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u24	Thank you. Then there is an interruption by Mr Grashoff on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u25	Yes, I think this first round of interruptions is very characteristic of the pension debate. Mr Van der Linde starts by saying: there is just far too little money in the pot! Next comes the representatives of the PVV and 50PLUS and they say: the pots are overflowing with money! Does the Group of the Party of European Socialists agree with me that it is remarkable that we do not seem to be able with each other to see whether there is enough, too little or too much in these jars at all? Surely it is of great social importance when it comes to trust in our system that we first look at it and try to get a really broad-based thinking: what accounting rules are the best possible accounting rules to give an opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u26	I am actually very pleased with the words that Mr Grashoff started with, namely that we should look up the nuance and listen carefully to each other. That is why I think it is so very important that we have a fundamental discussion very soon on the establishment of the pension system. What I'm a little worried about right now is that we're turning a button, but the machine behind that button needs revision. At the moment, therefore, I think it is too easy just to turn that button, but it is extremely important that we should be able to have that fundamental discussion with this minister, and I also hope that Mr Van Rooijen will be able to have that fundamental discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u27	That is a special turn of events, because Mr Van der Linde is actually choosing a kind of flight ahead: let's look very quickly at how we can change the system in order to prevent us from evaluating with each other what these calculation rules are at the moment and whether they are good. I would really like to invite Mr Van der Linde to reverse that order. Let us first look very closely at what these accounting rules are now and what criticisms there are; really three strokes deeper. Once we know that, we can only have a good discussion about a possible system change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u28	If I put it popularly, I'd say, "Let's pick out the Christmas tree before we put balls in it." It is very important that the system is considered fundamental. There are a number of preconditions. For example, it must remain understandable for people who are now retired and there should be no need to worry. That sort of thing. We will have the debate on this later, but I would very much like to have that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr. Van der Linde, I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u30	Yeah, I actually came to the market rate. It's very low, indeed. A number of my colleagues are now calling for attention to be paid to this, because you and I are currently receiving little interest from the bank on our savings. Pension funds suffer from this in the same way. If you use that to calculate what it means in the long term, you can see that it is simply difficult, even with those big pension pots, to just increase pension entitlements. That is the problem that Mr Van Rooijen also raises with his own initiative law. The VVD has a lot of respect for the time and effort Mr Van Rooijen puts in here. In any case, this initiative forces us to reflect on one of the important assumptions of the pension system. I doubt whether the present proposal will bring the necessary improvement. Actually, the proposal to ignore interest rates in the market is just a few years, and we think that is risky. There's no guarantee that that interest rate will just rise again. In fact, long-term interest rates have been falling steadily since the 1980s. Now, if you say we're charging a fixed interest rate, so with a profit expectations far higher than the market's expectations, you're taking an advance on your children's pension and your grandchildren's pension. Now, of course, the initiator will say "yes, but in practice the profits of pension funds are higher" and he is right about that. But the VVD says: rather careful with new commitments than running the risk that commitments will have to be withdrawn later. No misunderstanding, indexing is a good thing, it's a lucky break, but if you get cut back on your pension, that's a tough setback. That just means you have to cancel your paper, cancel your vacation. So if you want to take as little risk as possible with the commitments that have already been made, that is what we have agreed. If the profits are really higher, then pension funds can still index generously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u31	So today we can prevent older people from having to cancel their subscription to their newspapers or take other austerity measures because their purchasing power is lagging behind because of discounts. We can prevent that today. But I share the story of the VVD that we need to be careful. But 2% of the yields that are 6% or 7% are already very careful, isn't it? It only applies for a very short period of time, doesn't it? Where does the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats think that Mr Van Rooijen's proposal, namely to apply a 2% interest rate temporarily for the coming years, would be irresponsible or at least not prudent enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u32	Then I am curious about the answer to the counter question: what interest? Mr De Jong says: 2%. In my view, the figure is now slightly above 2%. However, this is still open in the legislative proposal. This should then be established by General Administrative Measure. So what are we gonna do? Are we going to adjust the interest rate a little bit every year in such a way that it gets better or something? Then you get random.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u34	And it could take ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u36	I understand, Mr. Chairman. It's a little tricky, but I'm the one asking the question. The question was why the VVD fraction of a minimal change, but which can give air to pension funds to avoid discounts, says: we are cautious and this is not cautious enough. And that, while the VVD Group should agree with me that the returns are now many times higher than the cautious 2%, which some pension funds already count on, as the VVD Group rightly says. So again, why don't you seize the opportunity to avoid those discounts for the next few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u37	Because we do not want to run the risk that we will have to spend many years in this area helping the world to keep pension funds above water. That can't be the intention. Again, that's not a fair story to the pension participants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u38	I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u39	Having said this, I would like to understand how Mr Van Rooij's initiative is working. It stands and falls, of course, with the exact calculation rate and the length of time you are going to use. The CPB calculates that the impact on the coverage rate is not so bad, but it assumes a calculation rate lower than the current calculation rate and assumes that there is no indexing. But, of course, Mr Van Rooijen hopes that there will be a possibility of indexing and that the rate of calculation will in any case rise. Can he indicate which numbers he uses on the back of his cigar box and how much indexing he would like to come up with? Mr. Chairman. Our pension system is one of the best in the world, but it needs maintenance. Our pension claims appear to be very sensitive to the low interest rates currently applied by the European Central Bank. The system no longer fits in with the current labour market. A twentiester doesn't see enough of his inlay. That's what the nurse who quit work at 30 and is now 70. That's what the manager notices when he's 50 years old working as a zzp'er. The VVD therefore wants to reflect on improvements to the pension system. This debate also contributes to the sharpness of the direction to be followed. We're turning buttons now, while the machine has to be overhauled. It's also a button surrounded by secret language. UFR, you know the hypothetical long-term market interest rate that lies on the asymptote of the forward rate structure. Are you still there? I would like to take the debate on the interest rate into account in the broad debate on the whole system and I would also like to include Mr Van Rooijen in that discussion by that time. Perhaps he could consider that in the timing of the second term. Mr President, you are listening to a critical VVD, but you are listening to a VVD with great appreciation for a colleague who at least comes up with concrete proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u40	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the PVV, I mean, on behalf of the PvdA, excuse. The first letter was right, wasn't it? The rest now, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u41	I'm gonna need a break from this. Pension is one of the most important conditions of employment, I think Mr Van der Linde agrees with me. We are talking about the most important securities we create with each other, which are paid by employees and employers. The coalition agreement and also the letter by Minister Koolmees rightly refer to the dialogue between the social partners. Employers and employees are the designers of our pension system. Suppose there will soon be an outcome, are Mr Van der Linde and the VVD prepared to take it directly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u42	Well, no, because we are the legislator here, so here we are the designer of the pension system. It is carried out by employers and employees. But I must tell you quite frankly that at the moment I see only a trade union movement working on its own and social partners that are not coming out. I sincerely hope that they will do so at the end of March, because otherwise, of course, we will find ourselves in a different water supply and we will have to take steps ourselves. You know, today's VVD is 70 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u43	Congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u44	Thank you. Not yet retired, very active and very willing to work on this. So we're not gonna sit on our hands. This elderly person is mercury and vief.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u45	I have to conclude that warm words are spoken about social partners and the importance of support, but that if the VVD does not follow the desired outcome, then we will do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u46	We have always been very clear: we hope that there will be a compromise in the polder and we will look very favourably at it. I believe that it is the same in the coalition agreement, but you are asking us to accept it unchanged. Well, that depends a little bit. Maybe there's still a price tag on it, so we say, no, we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u47	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Rooijen on the fact that he is in trade-K today with an initiative law. I do not think that this initiative law is mine. That will not surprise Mr Van Rooijen, but I always find it extremely admirable when colleagues do all the work and effort, with support, which I welcome, not only to say what is not good but to come up with concrete proposals and to defend them in the Chamber. I have had the opportunity to do it myself a few times, and I found it not only a great honour but also an extraordinary pleasure. I wish Mr Van Rooijen that pleasure in this debate. Mr. Chairman. I also understand why Mr Van Rooijen is coming up with an initiative, because we are indeed looking for a solution to a painful problem, namely the purchasing power of pensioners. They have seen that in recent years indexation has disappeared from the picture and that sometimes even had to be cut. They saw that all kinds of great promises have not been fulfilled and will probably not be fulfilled in the coming years, because there is no prospect of full indexation of pensions in the coming years either. Although the coverage rates are improving at the moment, even discounts cannot be ruled out at the moment, especially since some smaller funds are still in the red. This is, of course, not only bad for pensioners but also for workers who see their pension claims frozen or even reduced. I am pleased that we have recently been able to take measures, for example with the Tax Plan, to support older people's purchasing power, for example by seriously increasing the elderly discount. But it is true: especially for people with a substantial supplementary pension, we cannot fully compensate for the fact that the pension is not indexed. It's nice that the AOW is indexed, but in your wallet you're still losing purchasing power. That's absolutely true. Mr. Chairman. It is then, of course, tempting to look at the arithmetical rate as a kind of deus ex machina which, by turning a button, makes pension funds seem to be better in front of it all of a sudden, but that is not wise as far as D66 is concerned. That is because we now have a system with nominal certainty; we promise participants that. We have all the pension money in one pot of the current participants, whether they have retired or started with their employer yesterday. Soon, future employees will also be inducted into it. If that money is in one pot, it is also wise to deal with it extremely carefully to ensure for the future that all interests are taken into account equally and that the account will not be paid for what is now being spent. The question is how much you need. I think it is wise that you should not ask too many pension fund managers or politicians to look into a glass ball and change the interest rate. On the Ultimate Forward Rate, the long-term interest rate, which Mr Van der Linde mentioned earlier, we said that it may indeed be higher than the current market rate, but that we will have independent experts establish it. That seems sensible to me; that is why we have this independent committee. That committee is looking at which systems are in line with the current system. That's what my whole input is all about. As long as you have all the money in one pot, with nominal certainty, I think you should handle it very carefully. People who are now making compulsory pension contributions must be able to assume that their interests are also well-balanced. Therefore, even on the advice of that independent committee and followed by De Nederlandsche Bank, it is now based on risk-free interest rates that is chosen prudently. If you're gonna change it now, you're gonna go down the road where you're gonna shift the money into that pension fund here by political rules between generations. I don't think we should do that. Mr. Chairman. The initiator says it's relatively small adjustments. As far as I am concerned, however, it is also a question of principle: do you even think that political money may shift between generations? In the past, I have debated with Mr Ulenbelt of the SP. He just wants a much higher rate of calculation on a permanent basis, but in the debates he admitted it honestly: this may indeed be detrimental to young people, but that is a choice I am making now. I think that's an honest choice. It's not my choice, but it's very transparent. I see that Mr Van Brenn wants to interrupt me, but I ask her if I can finish this. Mr Van Rooijen seems to have two thoughts. On the one hand, it is always said that the effects are negligible, but on the other hand, it is said that this is even good for workers and for young people, whereas on the other hand, all accounts show that there are simply negative welfare effects. I ask the initiator whether he simply wants to confirm that raising the arithmetic rate above the market rate is a redistribution between generations. That's your choice. You can do that to a large or less large extent, but I do think it is important to be explicit about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u49	An interruption by Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u50	I actually have two questions for Mr Van Weyenberg. He was talking about turning the button, but this initiative was taken because Mr Draghi is turning a button. He turns a button to manipulate interest rates. He artificially keeps it low. And that has to be taken into account. This initiative does nothing but correct this correction to a very small extent. Mr Van Weyenberg looks very much at the interests of young people. That is how we know D66, so we expected this from Mr Van Weyenberg. I would therefore like to hear from him where, in his view, this proposal changes the contributions and claims of young people. In our view, the facts are that no claim shifts from anyone to anyone. Everyone keeps their own claims. So could you please explain to me what you're talking about right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u51	Yeah, I'd come up with that, but of course I'd like to do that with love. I also believe that Mr Draghi's policy should be stopped. I agree with what Mr Van der Linde said about this. But whatever we think of Mr Draghi's interest rate, it is the reality. That's the point. I'm so careful. You know, ten years ago, people from the FNV said, but also from APG, for example: the only way is up with that interest, raise but, because that's going to happen anyway. Unfortunately, interest rates have fallen further in recent years, but if we had then, we would have redistributed a great deal of money. I have some questions about this: pensioners are on the plus one, and people who have not yet retired are on the minus one. You can choose to do that, but I think we should be honest about it: that is redistribution between generations. That is not the choice made by my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u52	I think you have also read in the report of the Central Planning Bureau that it is generation-neutral. Anyway, I understand you want that statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u53	That's a question I'd like to ask the Minister. That's not how I read the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u54	Mrs Van Brenk has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u55	Yes. Mr President, we would also like to ask Mr Van Weyenberg the following. If that Mr. Draghi hadn't touched the buttons, the normal interest rate would have been higher. Then all those risks of discount that millions of Dutch people are running now would not have been there. And that includes your young people. It's gonna last a lot longer for them, so that's a real horror. Then why do you say "this is reality"? This is a fake reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u56	It's reality. The interest rate is already low. Shouldn't he have been? I think that Mrs Van Brenk and I can very much find each other in that debate. But pretending something isn't there when it is, I just think it's unwise. By the way, I am going to deal with that in a moment, in order to become much less dependent on that interest. This certainly applies to pensioners, but I will say something about it in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u57	An interruption by Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u58	The interest rate now to be counted on is not the reality, because it has been manipulated by ECB policy. That's first of all. My question to Mr Van Weyenberg. D66 always tries to turn it into a generational conflict: old compared to young. But now, when we look at how this artificially low interest rate has resulted in pension funds over the past few years, we see that young people benefit greatly from it and that older people do not benefit from it. In the case of ABP, for example, the claim of young people has increased by 7% and that of pensioners has decreased by 6%. Mr Van Weyenberg argues here that young people are the victims, but the opposite is true. Can you respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u59	Non-indexing, even cutting claims in some funds, is also bad for young people. The only difference is, of course, that pensioners on average have much more money in that pot than young people. These generation effects can be seen in all accounts, also in this proposal by Mr Van Rooijen. This also applies to ideas for a permanent rate of calculation or a higher rate of calculation than 2%. That's bad. By the way, I want to avoid this generational conflict by taking these things out. I think you should go to a system where it's much more clear which money belongs to who. As long as the money is in one pot, we have an expensive duty to say to anyone who is obliged to invest: your interest is secured. This applies to pensioners, young people but also to future participants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u60	D66 really takes every opportunity to stir up that generational conflict, when it is really nonsense. It is the older people who are severely affected by the fake interest that D66 attaches so much to. This creates a problem between generations. In order to solve this problem, we need to move away from the interest rate and move towards an interest rate that is related to the returns that pension funds actually make. That's what matters. That's the amount that comes in the pension fund, not the artificial fake interest that D66 attaches so much to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u61	But in my opinion, a pension fund is the same as for Mr Van Kent and me when we do our housekeeping books at home: you have to earn it first. Mr Van Kent is actually saying that he expects high returns in the future, and that is why he is probably already counting and spending that money. If yields are so high in the coming years, I hope, with Mr Van Kent, that this will improve the level of coverage. That then provides room for indexing. This way we can avoid discounts. But Mr Van Kent now wants to include the effect that the falling interest rate has made all bonds more valuable to funds. He'd like to take that. That's the same as someone who says very proudly that he has a house of 8 tons, but doesn't mention that there's a mortgage of €810,000 on it. You can't look at one side of the balance, Mr. Van Kent, I say through you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u62	Very good. Mr Van Kent, we would do the interruptions in half. That's what we agreed. I understand that you want to interrupt, but there will be another opportunity to interrupt in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u63	I'd still like to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u64	I'll give you an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Because I think I'm being addressed quite directly. The big problem is in here. For example, in 2016, pension funds achieved a return of 10.2%. From D66 they had to assume a return of around 3% in 2016. So that money's already in, I'll tell D66. That money's already in there. The expectation that the return on pension funds will be at 3% in the future up to the length of days can be seen in the glass sphere used by D66. The SP proposes to look at what is actually earned by pension funds and to involve them in the accounting rates that pension funds should use. That's a different picture of things than D66 just gave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u66	Your point is clear, but I think Mr Van Weyenberg would certainly like to comment on it. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u67	Yes, Mr. Chairman. But Mr Van Kent knows a great deal about this third interruption; congratulations. The core is that these high yields can be immediately included in the coverage rate, because they are just on the balance sheet. That's what's in possession at the time. You can count on that right away. Mr Van Kent pretends that he is not, but that is not true. You can count on that right away. The only thing you can't do is count the returns of the future in your sum. Why can't I do that? Because we don't know that yet. Earn first, then spend. If the yields are so high over the next few years, I hope that this will also offer room for indexation, but you are not going to spend money that needs to be earned in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u68	Thank you. An interruption by Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u69	There's a pretty well-known institution, Mercer. This indicates that there has been a shift from old to young in the last ten years. So for generational conflicts, we have to look at the past few years. So we see a shift from old to young. Now we can have a whole discussion about that, but I have only one question: why don't you just choose to give those pension funds a little bit more air over the next few years -- that can also be based on the yields achieved -- and support the initiative that avoids unnecessary discounts? Why don't you just say yes to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u70	There are a number of arguments. The first is that I really think you should earn it before you spend it. I'm about to ask questions about the bounty side, about the current financial rules. I therefore ask Mr De Jong for some patience. The second thing is, if we're going to play politics here, we're going to have an AMvB and we're going to fill it out now. Mr Van Rooijen's election programme even says: do only 4%, and do it permanently. As a future participant, you did not lose 1%, but maybe 30%! This shows the opening through all kinds of AMvB's, with all kinds of open ends. I want to speak in principle, and in that sense I welcome Mr De Jong's question, which does not mean that we are going to turn on this kind of thing, possibly on a day-to-day basis. No, I want a much more fundamental discussion to adjust the system so that we get rid of that money that's in only one pot. I hope to find Mr De Jong on board in that discussion too. Similarly, we are getting rid of the fact that pensioners are now at far too high an interest rate risk in the current contract. I'm not gonna artificially spin interest rates here, just shoving money between generations. That is the point of principle for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u71	There's all kinds of buttons being turned all the time. The ECB does nothing but turn buttons. But here's what's important. That 4% is now being brought in. Now there is a proposal to increase this to 2%. When we look at the returns of recent years, we see that this is very realistic and very careful. However, it could ensure that unnecessary discounts are avoided. We would then be able to say to all those older people, who, with their subscription to the newspaper or just at the end of the month, have too little money to do normal shopping, that in the coming years there will be no unnecessary pension reductions. Let us keep the debate pure. The only question I have is: stop playing crazy games about the sustainability of the pension system, and then throw away Mr Van Rooij's initiative as something that wouldn't be okay, which is super careful and only ensures that we can avoid discounts for people who have already been taken so hard in the years to come. And for once, make sure that calculation rate is introduced realistically. I still haven't got a clear answer to my question as to why those older people, who haven't seen anything happen at all for ten years and have only gone backwards, can't be compensated a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u72	I think I have already given the answer, but Mr De Jong simply has a different opinion. I'm going into a system where all the money is in one pot, not putting money between generations by charging me richly with the interest of the future. That is still separate from the design of the proposal, and with that, Mr President, I am going straight ahead with my story. Because as far as the design is concerned, the height is done via an AMvB. I am really afraid that we are going to extend it here in politics for another year. Therefore, the following questions to Mr Van Rooijen. Why not six years? Why not four years? Why the 2%, and not 2.5%? And why is that 2% not actually in the law, but should Mr Van Rooijen's do so through a General Administrative Measure? And what does he think of the concern of the Council of State that, when you start doing this, you are going on a path in which politics is actually going to steer on a day-to-day basis at the interest rate? I've been talking about the generation balance for a long time. I really asked Mr Van Rooijen whether he admits that, with this proposal, we are pushing money between generations. I think we will have the debate purely. Or does he disagree with the Central Planning Bureau? And is Mr Van Rooijen and the 50PLUS Group, but I am looking at Mr Van Rooijen now, with this proposal, in fact, away from the original commitment to set the interest rate at 4% on a permanent basis? Is that part of the election program gone with that? And we're never gonna see that again? That's the same question I'm asking, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u73	Then there is another interruption by Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u74	There is a huge murmur in this debate, and that is absolutely not worthy of this issue. Why would I say that? Firstly, this initiative concerns the prevention of unnecessary discounts. Now the D66 Group is getting a lot of stuff. I have already asked the question about these generation shifts, but I am now asking this question in a different way. If D66 says it doesn't want to have shifts between generations, why has it accepted over the last ten years that it has shifted from old to young?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u75	I am going to ask a question about the premiums, but what I do not hear about, for example, is that we are happy, because people are getting much older, much longer... Mr President, Mr De Jong wants to interrupt me, but an answer is not only good if Mr De Jong thinks he is right. I'm afraid I'm not gonna do him that pleasure. The essence is that I think that generational effect is important from both sides. Luckily, we're all getting older. As a result, people are often paid longer pensions than those for which contributions have been deposited. That is also a reality. This is also one of the reasons why pension funds were in severe weather. That wasn't just because of the interest; this also played a part. Once again, on the bounty side, I am about to make a comment. There is a proposal and the plan has been passed on. According to Mr Van Rooijen, that effect is limited, but I think that is a fundamental choice and I make a different assessment from Mr Van Rooijen. I think we're repeating ourselves now, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u76	That will be true, but Mr De Jong has asked the question in a different way and now wants to fill in the second part of his interruption. I'd like to be brief. That is also what I am asking the other Members about the length of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u77	Of course we have to look at future generations and, of course, we have to look at the importance of young people, but when we look at pensions, when we look at what happened to that money over the last ten years, we see a shift from old to young. I have just heard Mr Van Weyenberg say that he wants to avoid shifts. For the past ten years, nothing has been done by the D66 Group to actually put that into practice. So, in order to prevent the need to take care of older people again in the coming years, my question is why D66 does not choose to compensate the elderly, who have surrendered all these years, for at least a small part for the next five years. It is something that is very careful and takes reality into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u78	Then I have to give the same answer again, but I won't, because I just gave that answer. For example, my group has agreed to the new financial rules, which have ensured that there has not been abrupt cuts in recent years, which should have been done with the old rules. I'd like to have that named anyway. I do not hear Mr De Jong about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u79	There is another interruption by Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u80	I have a pile of documents here. We had already counted on this, so we copied it. I'd like to hand this over to the clerk later. We have here the pictures of the redistribution of pension assets. That's just been mentioned. The renowned Mercer agency shows that 70 billion has indeed shifted from old to young. That's okay, because that's solidarity within the pension scheme. There was also a question from Mr Van Weyenberg whether we have let go of our electoral programme. No, we don't, but it's not about our election program today. What is at issue here today is that we want to take an emergency measure because there is a Europe in which Mr Draghi is at a disadvantage. So we have only one thing here and that is not about indexing...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u81	Would you like to put your question to Mr Van Weyenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u82	Well, we are being asked whether 50PLUS is working on his election program or has fallen from his faith. No, we're not, but we're really going to talk about something else here today. We are talking about an initiative legislative proposal to prevent reductions in the pensions of millions of people and...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u83	However, I would like to interrupt you for a moment, because the question was put to Mr Van Rooijen. He will come back to that later in his reply. You are now interrupting with a question to Mr Van Weyenberg. That is why I would like to state that, otherwise we will already have a preliminary reply. I don't think that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u84	Well, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Van Weyenberg made a double. He told Mr Van Rooijen and the 50PLUS Group and I am speaking on behalf of the 50PLUS Group. I'm just saying that for us...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u85	I see Mr Krol nodding, so no doubt I did not get that double blow. I'll give you the floor for your interruption, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u86	Today, as far as we are concerned, it is so important that we move away from our electoral programme and step over our shadows. For us, this is very important because we really want to avoid the disgrace of the reduction in the pensions of millions of people. So we have a very cautious proposal here. I agree with Mr De Jong of the PVV that it would indeed be a credit to Mr Van Weyenberg if he only referred to the initiative proposal and not to the whole system. I hope I can hand this over to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u87	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u88	I thank Mrs Van Brenk. I spoke to her, so I understand she went to the microphone. I have said that I do not think this is appropriate for the time being, because this is a bridge that I do not want to cross, also because I am afraid that we are going to go into a process where next time we will go from two to three and from five to eight years. That is simply a fundamental choice. I understand that the 50PLUS Group makes a different choice. In addition, I note from the 50PLUS arrangement that they seem to think it is justified to work permanently with a 4% interest rate, which will cost future members 30% of their pension. Well, I disagree. That's not before today. Mrs Van Brenk is right to say that, but I disagree with that even more significantly than Mr Van Rooijen's proposal. And that won't surprise her again. Mr. Chairman. What we do have to do is this. And that's okay with me anyway. We did something against those discounts. Apart from purchasing power policy and beyond the indexation of the AOW, a few years ago we created new financial rules that prevent abrupt cuts. But that was a balanced proposal. That said: you don't have to cut it so abruptly, thankfully, we have avoided many discounts; compliments to the previous cabinet but at the same time you have to be more careful and build more buffers in good times. That is how a proposal ensures the balance, and it is that balance that I miss in Mr Van Rooij's proposal. Proposal. I share all the dissatisfaction with the calculation rate, regardless of the policies of Mr Draghi and the ECB. The interest rate, which you need in a system where all the money is in one pot, leads to all complex sums. Then we're gonna have to split things up. This is partly inevitable with the current pension contract, with nominal certainty and all the money in one pot. Therefore, please, let us get off that! That seems to me to be the only way forward. That is why I look forward to the elaboration of the coalition agreement to really move to another system: a system with personal pension pots. Moreover, as a hand-off to the social partners, there is also the possibility of a buffer. My group did not necessarily have to do that, it is no secret. But I just want to get rid of that accounting rate. The interest rate will always be relevant, but I want to give that interest rate a much smaller role. It is precisely by treating pensioners' ability differently from that of active participants that you also prevent them, as they are today, from being so incredibly sensitive to that lower interest rate because the money is in one pot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u89	Mr Van Weyenberg is taking advantage of this debate in order to get a good deal ahead of the change in the system. Yeah, I get that. I would very much like to do that myself, but there is still a question that precedes it. That question is whether, in the current system, the financial arrangements as they are made, the financial accounting rules, are ultimately really fair. I would like to put the following thinking to Mr Van Weyenberg and ask him to respond. You can use the argument that for future years you should not include a penny above risk-free interest in the financial position of pension funds. Of course, you can take what has actually been realized. That is, of course, true: 'actually achieved' contributes to the size of the fund, and thus to the level of coverage. If you follow that reasoning and know that with a high degree of probability over those years you will have to find with retroactive effect that that yield has actually been higher, which is probably because of the historical line......................................................................................................................................................................................... Does Mr Van Weyenberg agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u90	No, not at all. I also hope that the Minister will respond to this argument. This reasoning seems to me to be really wrong. When do you have a redistribution? If you spend money the moment you don't have it and you risk it. I hope, with Mr Grashoff, that the returns will be higher in the years to come, although you will also see downward trends there. If those returns are higher, you can also spend it on the indexing at that time. Mr Grashoff was always a great ally in this debate on the issue of the generational balance. I hope he stays that way. His interruption worries me a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u91	Mr Grashoff will be given the opportunity, in the second instance, of his interruption to perhaps remove those concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u92	No, Mr President, that is not what an interruption is meant for. An interruption is a question, now to Mr Van Weyenberg. I think that if he takes his own words back from just now, he's basically right with me. That is, if you can only spend that money when you have earned it, then it will be spent later, and thus to the pensioners and to the pension-builders of that moment and not to the current ones. That's exactly the crux. If you want to continue to use a system that is based on that completely theoretical certainty, you will eventually cause a huge generation shift, but in the opposite direction. So let me raise Mr Van Weyenberg's concerns a little bit. Yes, in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, we are starting to worry more and more whether what we really wanted, namely to be safe, are not going to happen, in such a way that we are also organising a generational conflict, but vice versa. Of this concern I would hope that it would also be on D66's agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u93	I think the observation is incorrect that you are redistributing if you are already spending future returns. I ask the Minister the same question. I think that is really wrong. The second is that my concern has indeed increased. I would find it a really bad thing if we were apparently in the contract we have now... I share a lot of Mr Grashoff's discomfort, but then you have to change the contract, then you have to change the system. As long as the money is in one pot and you promise a nominal security, you have to charge a risk-free interest rate for generation balance. If Mr Grashoff does not do so, this is bad news for young people and workers. I therefore share with Mr Grashoff the inconvenience about the system, but if you do not come within the system with an interest rate of money, then you have to change the system. That used to be...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u94	I would like to point out to you in the public gallery that it is not intended to give evidence of consent or rejection. The speakers here should be given the opportunity to do their story. Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u95	Mr. Chairman. I assume that Mr Grashoff, if he really claims this and is therefore prepared to take risks for young people and workers now, will reconsider this. I really hope so. It seems highly unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u96	And yet it is true that the interruption has gone in two. I suggest to Mr Van Weyenberg that this does not lead to entrapment in the reply. It's entrapment. I notice that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u97	You ask a sharp question, then you get a sharp answer. I thought you could handle it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u98	Mr Van Weyenberg, I want to avoid interrupting in threes. I understand it's entrapment. I would ask Mr Grashoff whether he agrees that the interruption is now over and that I should now be able to have Mr Van Dijk interrupt, or whether he would like to say a short sentence to that effect. If Mr Grashoff wishes to do so, I will allow it, I have just done so, but I want to avoid what I said in the rest of the debate. Mr. Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A brief statement. I am not being blamed by Mr Van Weyenberg for the fact that GroenLinks is suddenly squandering the interests of young people or would not like to discuss any revision of the system. I am not going to allow myself to be blamed for that, nor should Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u100	Your message was clear, but I suggest, Mr Van Weyenberg, that I simply allow Mr Van Dijk to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u101	Mr President, very briefly, I think that is also common practice. My point is that I asked the Minister, and I think Mr Grashoff's reasoning is simply not correct. Now letting go of risk-free interest means moving risks to the future. I hope that if that is the Minister's answer, Mr Grashoff and I are again in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u102	I hope that has returned to peace. I shall at least give the floor to Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand the emotions surrounding pensions very well, because this is about big interests. We will have them here in this house in the coming months, because it is one of the major challenges for this Chamber to really work on a future-proof pension system. The support structure is of the utmost importance in this respect. This cabinet also highlights the importance of supporting workers and employers, social partners. My question is the same as the VVD. The VVD is clear, which says: without or with support, without SER or with SER, we are going to do it anyway. Then I understand the reluctance of the trade union movement. Then why should we talk? How's the D66 in this? Will D66 continue to reform the pension without the support of the social partners?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u104	I choose my own words. I have a few points, because the answer to this question also requires care. The first point is that I see in the coalition agreement that doing nothing is not an option. I know that Mr Gijs van Dijk agrees. The second is that the coalition agreement provides a major hand to the social partners. You can see that there are contours that are very much in line with a variant that has long been part of conversation among the social partners. The system has been under discussion for years and the time has come for action. There are also, quite consciously, a few things that were not included in the programmes of some of the negotiating parties. I can hardly hear the words "strong hand" anymore, but it is a clear appeal to jump together, I say to the social partners, also because they themselves have often said that we should get rid of the average premium system. For example, we give room for a buffer. We don't choose to choose your own pension fund. My party would have liked that. We have really tried, but it requires two parties to jump up, including the social partners. I'm not getting ahead of myself. We said: we expect something in the spring. But the pressure is increasing. The signals I'm hearing are worrying me. But doing nothing is not an option. We've given social partners time. I'm not gonna walk through it right now, but doing nothing is not an option. I'm really expecting some of the social partners. After years of talking, I think it would also be an embarrassment if the SER didn't come out. Mr Gijs van Dijk's second question was: do you always take everything from where the ESC comes? I really think that's a different question. In that respect, the primate is here. I agree with Mr Van der Linde on this point. Suppose the proposal would be to go to variant 1b, which could reduce coverage rates to 50% and keep everyone on laying in. That is not going to happen to my group. But I'm not going to burden this trial. We've given the ESC the time until spring. I'm counting on them to take that big responsibility seriously. Mr Gijs van Dijk is right to say that we are talking about a great deal of money. It is about the purchasing power of many people, of pensioners and workers. The pension is one of the most important assets of almost all Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u105	We've also heard the FNV around the new year. They clearly indicate: we want to talk about pensions, but we also want to talk about forms of early retirement, for example. They therefore indicate that we want to have room for real reform of these pensions. Is that room there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u106	This question has already been put to me by Mr Gijs van Dijk. I'm gonna give you the same answer as back then. An agreement with social partners is worth a lot to me. I'm out of taboos. I understand that in negotiations, everyone's looking for something. Moreover, I believe that the new pension system itself is also very important for trade unions and employers. I've seen what the unions are asking. Things like freezing the AOW age to the infinite I really don't see happening. You yourself mentioned subjects. For example, the question is: can we stop working earlier? I'm not setting any limits on that conversation in advance. I find it complicated and, for me, the generation balance in the pension system will be very important for the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u107	I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u108	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I had already asked Mr Van Rooijen a question about this in an interruption. I'm just gonna ask him again now. Is it true that his proposal, even if it is modest, does indeed involve a redistribution between generations? I hope he dares to be as honest about that as some others. The honest answer to that is "yes." It's modest, but the answer is yes. 1% redistribution with a pot of 1,400 billion is still a lot of money. If he gives the honest answer to my question, I think that the enthusiasm of many pensioners could diminish once they realize that it is happening at the expense and risk of their children and grandchildren. I think that is perhaps the reason why the initiator of the report is so concerned. I hope to get a clear answer to this in the plenary. Mr. Chairman. Then I have two more questions. In the end, we want to move to another system, which is clear, where you are also off the billing rate and where you need the coverage rates much less. Now we have the financial review framework. Many colleagues have already referred to this. So we have financial rules. In the financial review framework, there is the possibility to dampen the premium with the expected return. My group has been extremely hesitant about this. The Secretary of State at the time said: that is possible and that is balanced, because if you do that as a fund, you also have to include a premium premium for indexation; in this way we guarantee that this is also fair to pensioners. Mrs Van Brenk has already hinted at this subject, and rightly so. Is there any insight into whether this happened? This was also important for my group. If, through this premium, we count on expected returns, that should not be a way of getting the bill from young people to pensioners. Does the Minister have any idea about that? Can I assume that this point will also be taken into account in the evaluation of the financial rules and the ultimate forward rate? Secretary of State Klijnsma has made us a clear promise on this. I just want to know if this has happened in practice. If we go to a new system, it will never go into one. That's also going to raise questions about the transition period. What do you do, for example, if a fund has decided irreversibly to move to the system of the government agreement? Well, that'll take a while. In the meantime, how do you deal with the financial rules? I think that is a relevant question. Of course, we have to cut the knot on the system first, but when that happens, I would like to repeat that appeal to the ESC, in line with what Mr Gijs van Dijk has just said, and I think it would be wise to look at the question of the transition period and how you deal with the rules of the game when drafting the bill. That has to be figured out, because what we all do not want is that one day before the new system enters into force you have to cut short on a fund, which would not be on the agenda a day later. That would be silly and unexplainable. I assume that this issue will be taken into account in the elaboration, but only after we have an agreement on the system, because that is what it begins with. Finally. You have heard, Mr President, that the enthusiasm of my group has many limits. I look forward to the reply of the initiator, Mr Van Rooijen, and of course the Minister. My group chooses a different route, getting rid of the interest rate and making sure that you no longer need the level of coverage by going to another pension system. As long as you have the current contract, I find it unwise to move money between generations by doing something arithmetically about that arithmetic rate. The effect may be limited now, but it is there. As far as I'm concerned, you're going in a way that's not handy and I don't think it's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u109	Thank you. Mrs Van Brenn now has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u110	Mr. Chairman. At least I want to welcome some people, because I even saw them yesterday. It is good that there is an interest in this important point for 50PLUS, namely Mr Van Rooijen's own-initiative proposal. Since the outbreak of the credit crisis in 2008, the additional benefits in the Netherlands have hardly increased. People couldn't count on price compensation. Something that is self-evident for workers, namely that your wages grow along, has proved to be a hard lesson for millions of Dutch people who were retired. They have been looking at a flat income trend for ten years. The participants who are active and who are still making contributions, and who make a large contribution to pension schemes, also need to adjust their prospects for the future. In conjunction with the increase in the AOW age and a battery of crisis measures, in which elderly people are in no way spared, this cabinet and all previous Cabinets-Rutte have harvested what they have sown, namely years of fear and uncertainty, fear and uncertainty in a country with a pension system by far the largest pension reserves in the world. It has just been said: during the ten years after the crisis, assets exploded from EUR 700 billion to EUR 1,300 billion. If that's what you're trying to imagine: that's a 13 with 11 zeroes behind it. I can tell you, Chairman, Dagobert Duck's warehouse wasn't so full. Since this crisis, we have had more than EUR 1 300 billion in the pot, but there is no compensation for the increased prices and no mechanism to ensure that pensioners and participants somehow see back on these enormous excess returns. That is not entirely the fault of this cabinet; I admit that. But the way in which it defends this and the conviction with which it does so is, in our view, really inappropriate. Even on the assessment of this initiative, which, according to many experts, is modest and prudent, you're getting the "we've just seen it again" inappropriate reactions. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, this initiative is something to step over your shadow. The cabinet wants an outstretched hand. This is the outstretched hand, because we are asking for something very modest. According to the financial review framework, pension funds should calculate all their liabilities at risk-free interest rates. The assessment of the financial position of pension funds does not take into account the actual return. There are no historical returns and everything from the past and long-term assets. And so it can happen that pension assets increase from 700 billion to 1,300 billion, while those who have put all that money together through premiums and returns year in, year out are disappointed. In the meantime, we are ten years ahead and they are not just disappointed. I can tell you they've been disillusioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u111	There is an interruption by Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u112	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I also understand that great discontent about not indexing and all the unfulfilled promises made by pension funds in the past, but I think it is important that we keep to the facts. Mrs Van Brenk said that returns should not be counted. Can she confirm that all the returns to this day are just in the coverage rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u113	Those returns, Mr Van Weyenberg, are present, certainly, but pension funds are not allowed to pay out because they have to count on the manipulated calculation rate, and that is what this is about. We're not talking about a system. We are talking here about the fact that Draghi is on the buttons and that it has adjusted them downwards. That is what we want to prevent here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u114	But, of course, it's about scaring people a little with the idea that returns shouldn't be counted. All returns from the past are just taken into account. But then my question. I am not referring to your electoral programme, which says that there is redistribution. Once again, I respect it if you make that choice, but would you also honestly admit that this proposal, even to the modest extent that this is done in your colleague's proposal, including my colleague, Mr Van Rooijen, means redistribution between workers and pensioners? Would you just confirm that? That is clear from all the sums. Please be honest about that, and people will know what your choice is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u115	Yeah, it's just that the Central Planning Agency says it's generation-neutral. I don't think Mr. Van Weyenberg will ever believe that. The only thing we can see is that we have just distributed to you that older people are now showing solidarity with young people and that they are giving a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u116	I suggest that you continue your speech, Mrs Van Brenn. You've had your interruption in two, Mr Van Weyenberg. I've allowed a third a few times now, and I don't like it. Mrs. Van Brenk, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u117	Thank you, Mr President. I told you that we hear a lot of disillusioned stories, because people are disappointed in this fund. They are indeed the creditors of the pension fund, but they are seeing their claims evaporate. The money is there, but it's turned away by the low interest rate. And we hear it here, too, and we know what is going to be said: everyone will say that this link between the financial position of pension funds and risk-free interest rates is very prudent. That is to say, it's perfectly safe for a long term. It will also be said that we have just heard that today's pensioners are favoured by this proposal. But the opposite is the case. We have already said that the built-in solidarity of the pension system is now moving from old to young. If you do not want to accept this from me, take it from one of the many experts who have already expressed a positive opinion on this initiative. We have mentioned some of them in the note on the report, but we also have the column "I liked the headline, but I can imagine that they called up buttocks in some people "The Right of Henk Krol" from the former director of the Central Planning Office, Mr Koen Teulings. In that he says: I support this initiative. I don't think he's writing columns for the NRC anymore has anything to do with that. I would also remind you of the article of 11 June by emeritus professor Bernhard of Prague. In that he says: the 50PLUS proposal for a soil in the calculation rate is prudent and deserves serious treatment. That's what I'm hoping for today. As far as we're concerned, we're not talking about the whole system. We're gonna talk about that. Today we are talking about an initiative proposal to compensate for Draghi's draconian measures. So we are only talking about the initiative proposal here. We're not talking about the whole system. And we're not kidding, Mr. Chairman. We are not popping up our election programme today, no matter how much we would like it to be. We have a growing army of experts on this dossier on our side. And with them, we just want to prevent politicians with a double agenda from exploding the pension pots while at the same time taking away their expectations from millions of people. Let me explain why this is so and where the problem is now. The risk-free interest rate, on which this cabinet glowfully says it is prudent, has been manipulated down by the European Central Bank with enormous amounts of artificially created money for several years now. And the same artificially manipulated interest rates should be used by pension funds as a measure to calculate all future pension liabilities in advance for the next 60 years. If you have to calculate with a down-manipulated measure, this leads to down-manipulated coverage rates. And down manipulated coverage rates lead to down-manipulated pensions again. It's as simple as that. If you have to count on something that isn't right, then the calculations at the end aren't right either. Let me say this once again: that is why we are not talking today about whether risk-free interest rates are appropriate or not. That's not what this is about. And we're not talking about indexing. That is not the purpose of this initiative proposal. As far as we are concerned, therefore, we do not accept that colleagues, not even from D66, here in the Chamber or outside, give the impression that this bill does more than it actually does, and that it would not be generation neutral, because it is. Even the Central Planning Bureau has confirmed that the generation effects of this initiative are limited to between plus 1 or minus 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u118	And here comes the monkey from the sleeve. It was always: the CPB says that the generation effects are zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u119	Neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u120	Neutral. The CPB literally says: "The generational effects of introducing a soil into the calculation rate for five years is beneficial for cohorts born before 1961 and unfavorable for cohorts born afterwards." So this is the proposal we are talking about. What the CPB says here, I don't call generation neutral. You can have a debate about the size, but be honest: this is certainly not generation-neutral!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u121	I'd like to speak through the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u122	I'll tell you through you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u123	It's generation-neutral, though. It's even mentioned. Let me just say once more: we now see that pensioners transfer 7% of pension assets, or 100 billion, to young people over the period from 2006 to 2016. You got that note. That's not what we're complaining about. I am saying here that this proposal is generation-neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u124	The CPB says: cohorts from after 1961 pay the bill. Well, is that the definition of "generation-neutral" for Mrs Van Brenk? Just be honest about this. I understand that you do not, because if you say that honestly, a lot of pensioners say: but I do not want that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u125	Speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u126	But the President, Mrs Van Brenk, also says that we still want to go much further ourselves. You want 4% permanently. I have just said: that even means that future generations are falling by 30%. Then how can you defend it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u127	That's not what I'm talking about right now. I'm not gonna talk about that, because we're gonna talk about that at another time. As far as I am concerned, we are going to talk about this for some time when the system is changing. We are not talking about our electoral programme, I say just once again. We'd love to, but that's not what this is about. We are now discussing the initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u128	Mrs Van Brenk, you will continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u129	Mr. Chairman. In addition, it also affects the reliability of government and all of you as officials, because the Tax Administration.I say it all the same. is assuming that large assets in box 3 make 5.4% of the return per year. Thomas Piketty always gets his hands on each other in this house with his conclusion that real long-term return on capital is 4% to 5%, but those same politicians who applaud for Piketty say to pensioners and their pension funds that it does not work for them; they have to count 1.5%. Mr. Chairman. As a 50PLUS, we have sought and found a compromise: the negative effects of the ever lower interest rate on the financial position of pension funds must stop when the lower interest rate is the result of market manipulation. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. And that's all we want. You will see that the difference between the risk-free arithmetic rate and the temporary soil of 2% we propose is less than the effects of that manipulation calculated by DNB. So we're doing very modestly. Of course, we could have done a higher figure, but we did not do that because we want to achieve results. We want, I repeat, to avoid the shame of reducing millions of pensioners and workers in 2021 and 2022 while the funds are growing out, the returns are good and the economy is overboiling. That is today's mission and we are counting on the support of the well-thought-out part of the Netherlands, because it cannot be true that pension fund claims and benefits are being cut, even at the manipulated calculation rate, the coverage rate is still around 100%. This means that this Chamber attaches more importance to the formation of buffers than to the provision of a nominal pension. About another calculus rate, we told you, we're willing to talk. It's in our election program, but we're not doing that today. We only have four seats as 50PLUS. That is the reality. The initiative we are discussing today takes account of that reality. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u130	Thank you. I would ask the public gallery once again not to show any support or disapproval. We don't have a lot of rules here, but this is one of them. I give the floor to Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has the best pension system in the world, but a lot of workers and pensioners are not aware of it because pension funds have to rely on artificially low interest rates. They must therefore assume virtually no return in the future. The consequences are disastrous: pensioners and workers who have not been indexed for ten years, the reduction of pensions and, as a result, the loss of confidence in our beautiful pension system. A complex adjustment of our pension system, which has been discussed for years, is not the solution. Our pension system is not the problem. The mandatory arm must be calculated by artificially low interest rates, that is the problem. In order to free workers and pensioners from the stranglehold of pension funds interest rates, new rules must be introduced as far as the SP Group is concerned, so that returns that make pension funds benefit workers and pensioners rather than being put up in the pot that already contains 1,400 billion; I have always heard 1,300 billion but I think it is even 1,400 billion. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that we support the aim of the author of the initiative law and congratulate him on this too, namely the prevention of pension reductions. Mr Van Rooijen's law exposes the contradiction between, on the one hand, the pension boxes that are bulging out and, on the other hand, workers and pensioners who receive an ever lower pension because there is no index. That is unjust and unnecessary. If we look at the past ten years of pension funds that have just emerged from the debate with Mr Van Weyenberg, we see that returns are being made by pension funds of around 7%, while at the same time parties such as D66, VVD and CDA, but also the Labour Party, have in recent years demanded pension funds to rely on a return that was not even half of it. On the basis of these accounting rules, pension funds have not been able to index over the past ten years and even pensions have been reduced. As far as I am concerned, this has shown that the parties who have demanded pension funds in recent years are partly responsible for the falling purchasing power of pensioners and have really been wrong in the last ten years. The difference between the yields achieved and what they had to assume is more than half. The SP therefore supports the purpose of the law, but it would prefer to see a real solution: not only temporarily and aimed at preventing pension cuts, but also at allowing indexing. The uncertainty surrounding the indexation of pensions is now hanging like a sword of Damocles over pensions, and that is why people are losing confidence in our pension system. That is why, as far as the SP is concerned, we should go a step further today than this bill to restore confidence in our system. I come now to the plea put forward by the proposer that the calculation rules should be adjusted temporarily by introducing a minimum of 2%. The proposer of this law wants to lay a base of 2% in the calculation rate, which will make short cuts less quickly possible. The SP Group agrees with the proposer that the main problem of the pension system is that pension funds should be charged with artificially low interest rates, let it be clear, but why does the proposer not opt for a final change in the calculation rate? People need to regain confidence in the pension system and this does not happen with a temporary measure. Why not opt for a system whereby the same interest is used for the calculation of the premium on the one hand and the obligations and the level of cover on the other, as indicated by the applicant in its replies? Or add a premium to the calculation rate based on returns made by pension funds. The initiator indicates that this could be a good alternative, but does not choose it. Why doesn't the petitioner dare? The SP is considering an amendment, an amendment to this law, to include it in the law. Let us stick together to offer a real solution to all those people who now see their hard-earned pennies disappear in reserves and buffers instead of in their wallets. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u132	I call Mr Grashoff on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u133	Mr. Chairman. Whether or not the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will eventually embrace Mr Van Rooijen's proposal from the 50PLUS Group, we must point out that the 50PLUS Group and Mr Van Rooijen will address an extremely important issue and at least give us the opportunity to discuss these accounting rules concerning the pension system in a very compelling way. That alone makes the handling of this bill fully worthwhile. In the current system of calculation rates, it seems that we will have to cut a lot of pensions from 2020. At the same time, these accounting rules are under discussion. There is, however crazy it sounds, because you would say that calculation rules should be objectivable to a reasonable extent, a fierce social and political debate going on. We had just had that with Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van der Linde in particular. In addition, incredibly sharp comes to the fore, it becomes a kind of wells-niets game, whether the current accounting rules are the most balanced or not. That's weird. It is not good for the political debate that we do not come together when it comes to which accounting rules are reasonably the right ones in the current system. Any discussion about a future system is driven by the fact that we maintain social discontent in this way, and if politics and government are also an appeal towards the Minister................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u134	I think it's a little remarkable. We have an independent committee with experts, De Nederlandsche Bank, the Centraal Planbureau and international organisations; in my opinion, the vast majority of scientists still say that this contract includes risk-free interest rates. Mr Grashoff actually says: 'It is so annoying in the climate debate: first we need to get out with the climate deniers before we can talk about adapting to climate change'. That's a very strange argument, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u135	That is a very nice one from Mr Van Weyenberg; certainly to draw it parallel to the climate skeptics. In the climate debate, it took us some 20 years with heavy international committees to get out. By way of comparison, the rate of calculation currently used is not borne internationally or even within Europe. So if we were to make the comparison with climate science and so on, it would be a good reason to start a very thorough evaluation, in particular to include, for example, that European component alone. It is not for nothing that EIOPA has actually cracked the entire Dutch UFR system, let's face it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u136	Mr Van Weyenberg. By the way, we are having a debate here on the pension system, so I suggest we limit ourselves to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u137	Yes, but that's because we have a very special contract in the Netherlands. That contract is different. By the way, when it comes to the contract on the calculation rate and any adjustments to that system, it is beginning to look more and more like a process of more than twenty years, so I do not think that comparison is so strong. The essence, in my opinion, is that the current contract involves a risk-free interest rate; the vast majority of science is really in agreement on that, Mr Grashoff. If you are going to turn that away slowly, I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u138	I think Mr Van Weyenberg has quite a point there. There is, of course, a relationship with the degree of certainty provided. That's right. This is not the same as the problem of the plan to individualise the whole system in part and thus not to solve the problem, but simply to put it in the individual's shoes: bad luck! In any case, that is one of the characteristics I have heard so far in Mr Van Weyenberg's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u139	I suggest you continue your argument. I see Mr Van Weyenberg walking again to the interrupting microphone, but we have agreed that we are doing interruptions twice. It could have been entrapment, but it happens over and over again. Mr Grashoff continued his speech. Or do you have an order proposal, Mr. Van Weyenberg? Yeah? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u140	Mr. Chairman. Mr Grashoff says that I say that everyone has to find out for themselves. I'm not saying that at all. All I'm saying is that in another system, the risk sensitivity of pensioners decreases. That's what I think we should look for. I like a sharp debate, but now Mr Grashoff really puts words in my mouth. As he was allowed to respond to me, I found perfectly valid, but then I will do the same to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u141	Shall I say something nice to Mr Van Weyenberg? He's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u142	Let us try to keep the debate clear and clear and try to avoid the temptations over and over again. I understand, but we just want to keep the debate on this issue clean. Mr. Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u143	Yes, I wanted to say to Mr Van Weyenberg: he is right. But for a moment I did exactly the same thing he does regularly in the debate. Then you see how annoying that is and how that takes you away from a proper nuance in the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u144	Good. I think we've had this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u145	I am glad that Mr Van Weyenberg now understands this a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u146	Mr. Grashoff, please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u147	Oh, yeah. The philosophy behind the risk-free calculation rate is that pension is guaranteed and so you take the most secure assumption about returns on pension assets. That is a rather theoretical approach, by the way. In practice, it has already been shown that the pension is not so sure and cannot be so sure. At the same time, returns on pension assets have been higher than long-term interest rates for decades. Now the results from the past are no guarantee for the future, but they are an indication for the future. So you could take that into account, even with some caution. Yeah, we need to be careful. Our own wealth is very bad, but it is also not good for the credibility of the pension system, and I say that it can lead to very large assets that are actually dead money and ultimately do not actually contribute to the pension of today's or future generations. So the search for maximum security actually leads to the miraculous contradiction that the large reserves that need to be maintained have actually created the greatest uncertainty since the construction of the pension system. Millions of pensioners have not been indexed for years and we even have to fear discounts. This means that we will also have to look in real terms at the level of certainty offered. That's another thing than setting a course for individual retirement pots. I would like to make that distinction very clear. At the same time, we will also have to recognise that what we are doing now is likely to be assessed in a number of years' time as creating very large reserves that were actually only intended to create security but did not contribute to people's actual pension. What makes it difficult for us as politicians is that experts really do not agree on this point. It's not like an overwhelming majority says "this is just perfect, it's really good this way," while a single fool goes against it, no. When I see that people like emeritus professor Bernard of Prague and the chief economist of ABN-AMRO actually say that the difference between the actually assumed investment return of 1.3% and the actual realization over the last 100 years of more than 5% is bizarre, we will really have to take that seriously. Then you will not get any further by saying: yes, we have chosen the most high degree of certainty, and so it cannot be otherwise, we are not having the discussion, nor are we going to look at the way in which the current system operates in that way to look at possible adjustments to the system from that perspective. I could mention a number of other names of top economists, but I'm skipping them. Mr. Chairman. This contradiction also makes it difficult for us to make a final assessment of the 50PLUS Group's proposal. In any case, we do have a number of serious doubts. I would like to put it to Mr Van Rooijen with the request that he respond to it. GroenLinks wants a structural solution and not a temporary one. What's in store here is a temporary solution. It is also somewhat arbitrary and it creates a difficult precedent. It has the suggestion that we change the accounting rules if it is not convenient for us. And what else? Are we going to continue on the old foot, or can we then stack it again with a new ad hoc solution? In any case, my group fears ad hoc solutions. We prefer a structural solution. My second point is that the proposal is rather strongly based on a counter-reaction to ECB policy, the quantitative extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u148	It is indeed a temporary measure. It is really linked to the "Draghi policy," as you said. But as soon as that stops, this also ceases to exist. So it's really just temporary to apply a correction. It's not meant to go through with it after that. It stops acutely the moment Mr. Draghi stops, because we really believe that interest is on a normal footing. Now it's really artificially pushed down. So it's not supposed to take years. We've also limited it to five years. Imagine if the ECB kept going, it would be limited to five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u149	I find it extraordinary that Mrs Van Brenk is not interrupting, but is answering the question I asked Mr Van Rooijen. That's okay, of course. I agree with that, but it makes it a little difficult for me to respond to it, because I really think it is up to your group colleague, the author, to comment on it. But no matter how you turn it around, a temporary measure at least suggests that another temporary measure can then be taken on another aspect that we may have to deal with. That doesn't feel so good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u150	Then there will be an interruption by Mr De Jong of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u151	As I understand it, this legislative initiative is now being put forward because there is currently no majority in the Chamber for the proposal that 50PLUS would actually like to put forward, namely a proposal for structural changes in the calculation rate. This is now a temporary measure to ensure that future unnecessary discounts can be avoided. I understand that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has quite a few objections, but could it not agree, with all the objections that exist, to prevent future unnecessary discounts?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u152	That is a dilemma in itself. I find it difficult to give the ultimate answer from my position, because it creates the expectation that you will answer a question about something temporary for eternity. Of course I can't. In any case, in GroenLinks' vision too, we should prevent discounts in the coming years as much as possible. That's actually a crazy case. It is difficult to explain to pensioners, and that is difficult to explain to society. In our view, however, this means that, as a policy, we have the primary responsibility not to take temporary but structural measures. I haven't given up on that hope yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u153	I'm asking because there's so little time left. Of course, I also want to take the time to talk about pensions and pension systems and all that sort of thing. We also agree that there should be a structural solution, but the time is running out for the pension funds that need that little bit of air. So we could also choose to say: okay, that discussion does not end after today.............................................................................................. We will undoubtedly continue to have this discussion over the coming years and the coming cabinet period, but let us now ensure that these unnecessary reductions are avoided. Can Mr Grashoff at least undertake to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u154	In any case, I can say that, in the opinion of our group, we should also make every effort to avoid these reductions. Whether this is the right way to go is still very much the question. I have a number of very sharp questions to ask Mr Van Rooijen. Our final assessment of this will emerge in the second period of this debate. But the fraction of the PVV certainly has a point: if you realize that those discounts are coming, it is almost necessary. Is this almost so big that we now have only one option, namely to agree to the proposal of 50PLUS? No, it's not. Several other solutions are also possible. For example, you can also maintain longer recovery periods. You might also be able to avoid discounts. As the figures are now, I think we should assume that the threat of reduction will occur in particular in 2020. Then we have the years 2018 and 2019 to prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u155	That's what everyone wants, of course. The starting point of Mr Grashoff's party and my party has always been that the generational balance must be safeguarded. I would like to ask Mr Grashoff whether he still supports the input his group has made on this bill and which I would like to quote briefly: 'Members of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance are asking if the initiator agrees with them that his proposal unnecessarily increases the uncertainty about pensions for young participants. According to the members of GroenLinks, increasing the calculation rate means that part of the pension for young people can be used in the short term for the indexation of pensions. This is for the benefit of older workers but not of younger participants." Does Mr Grashoff still support those words of GroenLinks? These were words from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u156	At the moment, we are very much wondering whether the situation, as it is now and in the years to come, is still balanced, especially in the light of the continuing decline in interest rates. I would like Mr Van Weyenberg not only to play a political game here but also to really look into the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u157	I suggest we not engage in entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u158	If that's the case, you have to think about it with each other, too, if it's still balanced. And is it not true that the balance sheet of the importance of today's pensioners and the interest of young people can ultimately turn to the reverse, depending on interest rates and the rules to be applied? If so, we will still have to continue to reflect on a balanced approach. I really think it would be wise if we did not end up in a trenches war on this issue, but rather very well and very critically consider whether the accounting rules are indeed generation-neutral or whether they actually reverse the widening gap between realised returns and the calculation rate to be used. I think we should get more factual about that. I'm gonna make a proposal on that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u159	I think there are all kinds of accounts and Mr Grashoff is not answering my question. I, too, would like another contract, and I too am not at all happy with the interest rate and the interest sensitivity of pensioners' pensions. I quoted an extremely negative opinion from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and I just want to know if GroenLinks is running here. That may be; moving insight may be, but my point is that you were very critical of this proposal, because you said that it is not balanced and that it is bad for workers and young people. You didn't even ask a question about that; you, as GroenLinks, posted it. It was your words, not mine. You still think so, don't you? The picture I have so far is quite frankly that you seem to have changed your mind here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u160	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u161	The question remains whether we have changed our opinion on this, but there has been more doubt. Mr Van Weyenberg certainly has a point there: it is. I would hope that we would also allow some doubt with each other instead of sticking to a once-in-a-lifetime position. The latter may not be wise on this point. So I also call on D66 to look at the legitimate desire for general equilibrium from both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u162	Mr Grashoff continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u163	I was working on a number of questions to Mr Van Rooijen. I have already asked the first question and I now come to the second question. The proposal is too much based on a counter-response to ECB policy and is therefore very ad hoc. It also does not take up all the effects of ECB policy. There are also effects that are essentially positive: if income increases, more contributions are paid and the pension fund is strengthened. The low interest rate has also had a number of economic benefits. It is therefore difficult to look at this effect of ECB policy in a very specific and isolated way. If there had been no ECB policy and we had a significantly worse economy, then perhaps the position of the funds would have been even worse than today. I would like Mr Van Rooijen to take up these nuances. Mr. Chairman. We also have the question of whether the procedure proposed by 50PLUS is the most sensible one, because the proposal essentially adjusts the interest rate term structure for short-term interest rates. Is that okay? Did I understand that correctly from this proposal? As far as we can tell, that's the effect. Rather, we are questioning the long-term interest rate structure. It is up to Mr Van Rooijen to deal with this later. Mr. Chairman. Which way do we want to go? We think it is very important that we do not count ourselves rich and poor in relation to the financial position of pension funds. We see that there is currently no consensus on the extent to which expected returns, which are at least higher than long-term risk-free interest rates on the basis of the historical analysis, should be taken into account in the financial review framework. There is also a continuing discussion as to whether the long-term interest rate, the UFR, is being calculated wisely. For example, the current period of mediation, which is ten years old, is an arbitrary one. It is also such a short period that you actually see large fluctuations in the UFR. Then the question is whether you want to have it for the pension system, or whether you should not have to pay out over a much longer period. That works both ways. This could mean that the pressure on discounts is now decreasing, but it also means that the possibilities for indexing are actually moving more towards the future. That is true, but is it more stable in the UFR as far as our group is concerned at the moment? That is also a question in the direction of the Minister: does he wish to comment on it? We call for the announced review of the financial review framework to be stepped up. At the same time, we are in favour of a broad-based evaluation. Those are two questions in the direction of the Minister. Is the Minister prepared to take a firm approach to the evaluation of the FTC now? But is he also prepared to broaden the scope of this evaluation so that we can also look at the functioning of the UFR and the robustness of the UFR, including in the international context and in the European perspective? Is this the correct method of calculating the UFR? This is extremely important for us, which is actually important for the assessment of the proposal of 50PLUS and it is certainly important for any other alternatives that might be available to prevent discounts. It is also important for a new system. No matter how you set up a new system, you will at some point continue to count on a financial review framework and with an interest rate, even if it was for a long transition period in which several contracts exist side by side, or to give an estimate of the level of pensions of people in the future, although an estimate does not give any guarantee. You can't do that without such a set of calculation rules. So it remains extremely important that that set of calculation rules is as good as possible. We would like that research to be more independent than it has been so far. What strikes us is that the voice of De Nederlandsche Bank as a supervisor seems to mix with the voice of De Nederlandsche Bank as an advisor to the government. That's where we're starting to get a little jumpy. We believe that these two roles should be well separated. And we also think that the government should be given more and wider advice than through the enormous impact of De Nederlandsche Bank. Is the Minister prepared, as far as I am concerned, to make a good proposal, in consultation with the Chamber, for a genuine independent assessment of these accounting rules, not with a firm bias in them? That is what I want to conclude for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u164	There is another interruption by Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u165	I hear GroenLinks say a lot of things that the SP fully agrees with, but I am very curious whether GroenLinks is going to vote for or against this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u166	I think I made it quite clear that I would first like to await the reply of Mr Van Rooijen and the Minister on these points. We shall then clarify this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u167	Thank you. Mr Van Dijk has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must begin by congratulating Mr Van Rooijen and 50PLUS on this initiative. Pensions are really the theme of the coming period. I just said it, and it also came out in interruptions. They are of enormous importance to so many people and to the purchasing power of so many people. And there are concerns. We therefore very much appreciate this initiative. Perhaps not everyone knows that, but Mr Van Rooijen and I go back a little longer, because of other former roles. I will not look back endlessly, but in 2013 we, from the trade union movement and Mr Van Rooijen from the KNVG, together with youth and elderly organisations and with the Foundation of Labour, i.e. employers and employees, established a set of rules and principles for a new pension system that gives more scope, which is less interest-sensitive and gives pension funds more room to invest in the longer term and thus to create better pensions. That was a big good. Why? You can also see it now in the debates: because it is very quickly about the differences between young and old. Then, in 2013, we succeeded: a broad support for the principles of the new pension system, by youth and elderly organisations, workers and employers. That is the basis for the Labour Party's new pension plans and we will always assess them. These principles stated that, in this debate, the solidarity between old and young must continue to exist and that both young people, the elderly and workers should have the confidence that they will share the pension they are building together, that they will become stronger together and that they will also benefit from it as individuals. That's why I appreciate this mid-term effort that 50PLUS is doing right now. But as far as I'm concerned, this is a taste. The new cabinet has announced that pensions are under pressure. There are a number of principles for this and, quite rightly, an invitation to the social partners. My question is, how far does that space go? I also asked the coalition partners that question. I cannot believe that we are going to create a new pension system without the support of employees and employers, just because they are in all these pension funds, but also because this is money from employees and employers. That's my broad call. I'll take this as a preview. For me, this will be the most important starting point for the debates in the coming months: the acceptance of employees and employers is essential; without acceptance, there will be no pension review. Mr. Chairman. It has already been said: there is great uncertainty in many people. Threatening discounts, not indexing. That is a direct blow to people who are now receiving a pension, but it is also a big blow to future pensioners; let us not forget that. All those workers who do not now have a pension, who already have a low level of integration due to previous cuts, also need this indexation. We must therefore strive for a system that is much less interest-sensitive. 50PLUS is now proposing to do something about this interest rate. As far as I am concerned, that fits in with the whole wide-ranging system discussion, where we are looking at how to design a system that is much less sensitive to interest rates and in which we do not have to count on risk-free interest rates. Can Mr Van Rooijen explain this a little more? Why didn't they choose to look at it now? Mr Van Rooijen proposes to increase the rate of calculation, but as we have already stated in that joint young and old declaration, this also means something for the nominal guarantee that the system still has. How do Mr Van Rooijen and 50PLUS view this relationship? A different rate of calculation is now being used. The Labour Party sees this as well, but this does mean something for the nature of the system: this cannot be done if you continue to count on nominal guarantees. How do 50PLUS and Mr Van Rooijen see that? I have a number of questions for Mr Van Rooijen and 50PLUS. The ECB's influence on European monetary policy is very clear. Can 50PLUS specify this further? Are there other influences on that low interest rate and, if so, how do we separate those effects? Secondly, what is the 2% based on? On the current levels of coverage and the impact on it, or is it a soil, which is now being put rather low, assuming that you take little risk with that? Like other parties, the CPB indicates that there are indeed some generational effects. Could Mr Van Rooijen also shed his light on that? How does he see these effects? Mrs Van Brenk points out that it is generation-neutral, but the CPB speaks of a margin between -1% and 1%. Can Mr Van Rooijen answer that? As far as 50PLUS is concerned, are special economic conditions conceivable, where soil interest rates can be justified without monetary expansion of the ECB? My question, then, is: I have just asked it whether the proposers agree that the calculation rate must be linked to the hardness of the commitments. Finally, do the proposers agree that commitments are no longer risk-free if we do not use risk-free interest rates as discount rates? I apologize for the technical words, it's my previous profession. And what does that mean for communicating with people who are now saving for their retirement? I end up where I started. This is the political debate for the coming period. The Labour Party attaches importance to the support of employers, workers, young and old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u169	An interruption by Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u170	I understand that the PvdA has many questions; thank you for that. That means that you have studied the proposal carefully. Can you describe the position of the PvdA with regard to this initiative, in view of the fact that millions of people are about to be cut short? Could you give me a little more image and sound?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u171	Thanks for the question. We are, of course, waiting for the answers first. This is the first term. I am not asking for nothing a number of questions, also to give 50PLUS the room to explain. If you increase the calculation rate, this also means something for the form of your contract. I asked a specific question about this. We now have a guarantee system, in which people get 100% of what they put in. That's what that risk-free interest is all about. I'm very much in favour of a less interest-sensitive system. That was me in my former capacity and now so was I. How does 50PLUS rhyme with increasing the calculation rate with maintaining the current guarantee system? I think that's what the proposal is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u172	50PLUS is not currently engaged in the system discussion at all. This initiative proposes a correction to the manipulation by Europe. That's all we do here. It's really very sec. We're really looking at this little piece. We want a correction for the fact that Draghi is on the buttons, no more and no less. The Minister has already announced that he would like to make progress. So we'd like to go later...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u173	And your question to Mr Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u174	It is about asking a question about the system, but that is not what we are talking about today. We are really talking today about our own initiative proposal. So we would like to have a debate with you later, but we ask you not to respond to the system, but to our own initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u175	Your point is made. It was made before. I give the floor again to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u176	This proposal stems from the great concern of people about possible discounts and the absence of indexation. This has also just been changed with GroenLinks: I think that the current ftk, so the current rules on pensions, really offer room. If we do not already have a new system by 2020 that is being designed in a different way, such as the discharge of obligations, then this will also provide scope. In my opinion, the sec increase in the interest rate does not correspond to the nature of the current contract, but within the current rules of the game, within the current contract, I am looking for possibilities to avoid the discounts, should it come to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u177	An interruption by Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u178	There's actually one simple question. The PVV has also made a number of proposals in recent years to adjust the interest rate so that discounts could be avoided. Then I couldn't get the Labour Party by our side. She just voted against it every time. There's something in front of it now. As far as the discounts are concerned, we don't have much time. Is the Labour Party for or against Mr Van Rooijen's initiative of 50PLUS?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u179	As I said, I am waiting for Mr Van Rooijen's answers, because he will have room for that later. I have great doubts about the sec increase in the interest rate without doing anything about that very interest-sensitive contract, because then you have the chance of jeopardising generations, young or old. However, I am in favour of looking for a structurally different system if we still have this system by 2020. I hope that Mr De Jong of the PVV will participate in this search.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u180	In addition, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u181	The Labour Party is simply saying that it is not going to support this. This is in line with other proposals made by the PVV with regard to the calculation rate. That may be the case in itself, but that means that the discounts, which are on the doorstep in the short term, are going to hit a lot of people in the near future. In recent years, people have missed indexation and their purchasing power has fallen dramatically behind, so I am going to give the Labour Party one more chance to at least give them minimum compensation for the next five years. Can the Labour Party please promise? If she doesn't, she's got kilos of butter on her head.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u182	I leave that to Mr De Jong. Again, I start and I end with what I said. We agree with the concerns that exist and we are looking for the prevention of discounts and closer indexing. We will do so in all possible ways, but in such a way that it offers futures for all generations, both young and old. We need a new system for this; that is my conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u183	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u184	Mr President, thank you very much. Today we are discussing an initiative legislative proposal by the members of 50PLUS with the aim of temporarily adjusting the calculation rate in order to avoid unnecessary reductions in pensions. That's a good initiative. I would therefore like to thank the Members of 50PLUS for their commitment. The PVV has been advocating a realistic calculation rate for many years, so that the group that filled the pension fund can also benefit from this. Adjusting the calculation rate towards a realistic calculation rate does not mean that pension funds with 1,300 billion euros in cash no longer need to be charged unnecessarily poor. This creates air to prevent discounts. That is essential, because pensioners have been screwed for years. For years now, pensions have ceased to be indexed and reductions are at risk, with negative consequences for the purchasing power of this group. This morning, for example, in De Telegraaf, participants of pension fund ABP were left 16.4% behind due to the current system between 2007 and 2017. That's a huge loss of purchasing power. That's inexplicable. Surely you cannot explain to the people at home that there will be no indexation and will have to cut pension funds unnecessarily, with all the negative consequences for their purchasing power, while pension funds have EUR 1,300 billion in cash? That is only because politics has failed The Hague to change the calculation method for the obligations and for the time being, in a majority, refuses to recognise that the current system is unrealistic. For every year, the historical investment return of pension funds has been 6% to 7% over the last 20 years. More recently, over the past five years, the 100 largest pension funds in the Netherlands had an average return of 8%. Meanwhile, pension funds have to calculate as if their assets are increasing by about 1.5%, whereas in reality that is three or four times as much. Not a dog that gets this, but meanwhile, it's beating millions of people in their wallets. It's time we did something about that. Especially at a time when many Dutch people, including many older people, can barely survive, we should simply seize any opportunity to avoid unnecessary pension reductions with conviction. And you can just do that. We can decide here today to avoid unnecessary pension reductions in the interests of our older people, but also in the interests of trust in our pension system. Because in order to be able to continue to ask for cost-covering contributions from current participants in order to keep the pension system sustainable for future generations, it is necessary for people to have confidence in the current pension system. Unnecessary discounts and scare-making from politics The Hague is not helping. Let's stop with all these doom scenarios. If there are problems with sustainability, this is mainly due to politics itself. And you know, Chairman, the PVV obviously understands the attractiveness of a more personal pension. That's what it's all about today. But the current discussion and the plans of this cabinet go beyond that. It is about abolishing the best pension system in the world, with all the consequences. Who's gonna get what part of the pension fund? Who is going to pay the CPB's expected negative effects for the participants? It is about EUR 60 billion. How is that compensated? What about abolishing that average systematic? What exactly are the risks of the participants? I would like an answer from this Minister. We want the best pension for the participants. We want to maintain and improve the current system where necessary. But with so many essential questions, risks and uncertainties, aren't you going to hurt the best pension system in the world? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. It is therefore high time for a more realistic calculation rate. In this respect, the proposal of 50PLUS fits in with a temporary increase in the calculation rate. It provides a stable accounting rate which in any case does a little more justice to the financial position of pension funds and the returns made by pension funds. The PVV will therefore strongly support this initiative. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u185	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry I was a little late, but we had a debate on the Brexit at the same time. Mr Van Rooijen is normally present. I went to the Brexit debate for the first half hour. Mr. Chairman. Pensions are under pressure. Pension benefits have not been indexed in many cases for many years and a large number of pension funds have had to make a reduction in recent years. Moreover, the recent boom on the stock exchanges has resulted in pension funds at Aon now reaching an average level of cover of 111. I would therefore also like to ask the initiator and the Minister what the current state of affairs is. It's changed a bit since the bill was filed. For the better, I say, because the first large pension fund has already started indexing carefully. That's the building pension fund. That's good news in itself. I'll take a look at my colleagues, too. Things are getting a little better, also because the interest rate has gotten a little bit higher. This means that, in the current situation, there are no discounts for a large number of pension funds. This does not mean that all major pension funds are subject to indexation, but we are not talking about discounts in the current situation. In one part of the initiator's reasoning, the CDA Group goes along. The ECB's interest rate policy is the root cause, which has led to a significant decrease in the coverage rates of pension funds. That's very bad. There was still some understanding for taking emergency measures in an emergency, but especially now that the European economy is going well in the direction of the PVV: I'm sorry, but it's really going a lot better with the European economy. That should really be reason to reverse a piece of that bizarre buy-back policy. If you don't turn it back now and you wait until the next punch, you'll never get it reversed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u187	If the economy is improving, should it not be the case that all those older people who have been allowed to turn in over the last ten years, who have seen a shift of rights, are now being compensated? The only question I have to ask Mr Omtzigt is: do you support the 50PLUS initiative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u188	The pension system in the Netherlands consists largely of two main parts. The first important part is the AOW. The AOW is fully linked to the increases in the coalition agreement. That is also the responsibility of the government. In addition, we have a private pension system. Shall I tell you one thing? If that system had ever been public, like the US building system, like the AOW Savings Fund was that we set up in the 1990s, do you know what would happen to pension systems if politicians set the rules? I would like to mention, for example, the fact that Mr De Jong is also familiar with the pension fund of Members of the European Parliament, with a coverage rate of 37%. Let me tell you one thing. When politicians decide the supervisory rules of a private pension fund on a daily basis, that ends in most historical examples in a drama.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u189	I know it is Mr Omtzigt's hobby to lecture here in the plenary, but I have actually just asked a simple question here. That simple question was: if we look at the past ten years, a lot of people have been allowed to turn in, especially when it comes to the abuse of indexation, but also the threat of discounts. The only thing the initiative proposal requires is a little more air for pension funds, so that we can avoid unnecessary reductions for the future. So my only question is: can Mr Omtzigt support that? If not, does he have all kinds of argument for that, as well, but does he or does he not support the proposal of 50PLUS?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u190	The question is clear. Mr. Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u191	Mr. Chairman. I shall come back to that in my speech. As I say, we are not taking that second step, but I am also questioning a number of pr emissions that the previous speakers have raised here. The first premise that some people have here is that the current pension funds are all underwater. Take today's overview and see that most pension funds are above 100%. That means, if it continues to be like this last year, that discounts are not on the table and that we are talking about indexation. So just where we are. The second thing I am talking about here, and that is a real thing, is that the ECB not only reduces the rate of calculation but also the actual rate of interest. I wish there was a difference. If Mr Koolmees can see a smiling Minister of Finance every now and then, if a pension fund is currently buying a ten-year government loan, that pension fund will receive half a percent interest. What this proposal does is that for the next five years it will come with the fiction that you get 2% interest. Those of you, Mrs Van Brenk, who have said: that is a bit out of line with what we have in box 3 of fiction, I am absolutely right. So really, point tasks, because there is a fictional return of 5%. There's a certain imbalance in that. But they get that half-percent interest rate, which happens for pension funds but not for insurers. Because the insurance companies are obliged to have enough cash in their pockets at any time. If you re-insured it as a pension fund, that would also be a question for Mr Van Rooijen. Imagine, you're going to pass this law, so you're going to temporarily have 2% higher interest rates, a pension fund wants to liquidate because it has few young and many old participants and they're going to an insurer. Do I understand that under this proposal pensions should at that time be reduced by a percentage of 5, 6, 7, because if you buy them on the market you will get lower pensions? I mean, let's also look at these sides of the bill, because you're moving away from what you can buy in the market, which is market interest rates. It has been manipulated by the ECB, really, but it is the market interest rate, what those funds get on it, so you have to make a discount at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u192	Mrs. Van Brenk has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u193	I would nevertheless like to take a look with Mr Omtzigt at the state of pension funds. Today, De Telegraaf has lined that up for all of us. Indeed, we see that the ABP is at 101% and that Pension Fund is at 98%. Then we've got the two biggest ones. But they're in a recovery path. The point is: if their coverage rate is not 104.5% by 2020, the difference must be reduced at once. You reassure the people at home, but I do not think that is entirely right. Could you reflect on that for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u194	In view of what has happened on the financial markets, there has been a significant increase in coverage in the last six months since the legislative proposal was submitted, and I have every respect that it was something else in the explanatory memorandum. I would like to ask the author how high that level of coverage is. If you want to see where we stand in 2018 and 2019, the current coverage rate is slightly more relevant than the policy coverage rate, as the policy coverage rate is the average coverage rate over 12 months. That is the moving average of the current coverage rate. The question of where are the levels of coverage of the five largest funds, seems to me to be a relevant question to add, so that we can take a good look at the risk. If you are asking for the solutions to the ECB's policy, I would point out that two years ago we submitted a note calling for the ECB's policy to be adapted. I also think that this would be a more direct path and that it would also have some more macro-economic benefits, because ECB policy not only causes problems in the pension sector, but also leads to problems such as the blown-up housing market. The buying-in policy has also led the Italian authorities to buy up public debt from the Italian banks on this point, which I no longer see is going to be shared on the market. Those are macroeconomic risks. This takes place not only with the Dutch pension system, but also elsewhere. What Mr Draghi is doing at the moment, I find extremely unwise. The European economy is much better now. There is growth and unemployment is falling, including in the countries where it was problematic. If you don't have the courage to turn back these kinds of programs, you can't do that anymore if there are bad times. The problem is: you pretend to get 2% interest but you get 0% on short-term government loans and 0.5% on the slightly longer-term government loans. That's how you move the problem back. Let's assume Draghi doesn't do what I say. The European Central Bank shall be independent. Unfortunately, that's how it works. I ask the petitioner to reflect on what will happen in five years' time. What if we kept the current interest rate? I hope that doesn't happen to Draghi, but imagine that goes on. Am I to understand that in five years' time the proposed legislative amendment will expire in one go? If the coverage rate now goes up 6 percentage points or 7 percentage points and we start indexing a little faster, then the reverse effect will occur in five years, at the end of the period of the legislative amendment. Speaking of risks... Just say honestly that this will happen after the next election, when the temporary legislative amendment expires. Then what are the two options on the table in the room? Extending the temporary legal amendment? If a politician can choose between adjusting the calculation rate and shortening the pensions, the choice is often made quickly. Or are the discounts actually being implemented? This is not a fictional problem. In the United States, a lot of pension funds have adjusted the accounting rate in recent years, bringing the real coverage rate of most state pension funds to around 50%. Everyone knows that's impossible to make up for. When we look at Ireland, at the Hogan judgment, we see that a pension fund with high interest rates goes bankrupt and that in the event of bankruptcy more than half of the benefits have to be reduced. That's half of it. I am not talking about discounts of 0.5% or 1%. Then I'm talking about a 50% discount on retirement pensions. It might be good to reflect on why we have ever introduced supervision of pension funds in this country. We introduced this because a few pension funds went missing in the 1930s. The Lloyd Pension Fund was the direct trigger for the introduction of supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u195	This proposal could provide some space, some air for the short term. Mr Omtzigt asks questions about what will happen in five years' time. Those are legitimate questions, but the CDA is now in the cabinet. Could the following not be an interim solution: support for the initiative, so that we can create air in the short term? Mr Omtzigt then comes from the Cabinet.........................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u196	In this Chamber, the word "discounts" is preceded by the term "unnecessary" throughout the day. If I were convinced that we could avoid the discounts from pension funds, did you think I would think: Oh, how nice, are we going to freeze or cut here? We're not doing this because my party likes it or something. This has to do with the care that the funds will also have sufficient cash in 40 years' time. That is why we are doing this. That has nothing to do with "Oh, great, we're going to cut short."and "Oh, it's always unnecessary." If I thought it was unnecessary, I'd be the first to support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u197	A number of pension funds are right on that wigwam, right on the border of whether or not to cut. This initiative could give these pension funds air, which would not require discounts. It's just about that one adjustment. In other words, does the CDA also consider it important that we compensate all those people who have turned in for the last ten years? If so, can the CDA Group, unlike the PvdA Group, even if that sin is to pledge to support the proposal so that we do not allow people to fall further in purchasing power in the coming years? That is what is now threatening to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u198	I did not say for nothing that I want an adjustment of ECB policy in order to get real interest rates. That is the way in which the system becomes the most healthy. Here the story constantly goes to pretend the interest rate is higher than it is. It's very simple. A relatively greyed pension fund has a relatively large part of the money in bonds, fixed-income values. At the moment, however, they do not yield that much. If you have to re-insure, they're gonna get 0%. If you assume the fiction that they yield 2%, you're a little too rich. That is why we think that is unwise. By the way, in 2006 the pension sector asked for actual interest rates to be changed. If you want to be honest, you have to adjust both sides of the balance. You can't say: On one side of the balance sheet, I have pieces that yield half a percent of interest if you pretend to yield 2% on the other side of the balance sheet. Then maybe that's a question for the petitioner. You should also want the value of the bonds to be on the balance sheet at that price. Otherwise you make the two sides of the balance different, but that kind of accounting trick always ends in a tear valley, I can assure you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u199	Mr. Chairman. Over the last ten years, pensions have been frozen, even here and there reduced, although this was to a limited extent. Over the last ten years, we have also seen that pension funds have made a return that was disproportionate to the return they had to expect over the last ten years. Could Mr Omtzigt comment on that contradiction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u200	Yeah, I can get into this. Ten years ago, the interest rate was about 4%. If you have a 20-year government loan with 4% interest, you will receive €80 interest on every €100 in the future. At the moment that interest rate drops from 4% to 0% from one day to the next, the value of that bond increases by 80%. Those 20 years aren't fictitious at all. This is about the average maturity of the liabilities of many pension funds. So a lot of pension funds that had covered the bonds and their shares because of the discount rate with swaps in that way have not only achieved the return on those shares but precisely on those swaps. Because as the interest rate drops, the value of the bond portfolio and of the swaps increases to an enormous extent at once. To give you an example, the AEX index in 2002 reached 700. This week's AEX index, and it was all partying, and it was around 570. So the stock prices in the Netherlands are lower than they were 17 years ago. So anyone who thinks that if you've invested in Dutch stock, you make 7% or 8% on the stock market, it's hugely wrong. You've made an average return of 2% there. You have made some kind of return through the dividends so you are above zero, but there has been no return of 7% or 8% on the stock exchanges in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u201	Mr Omtzigt gave a detailed answer to this question. I suggest that we at least try to do this a little bit shorter and more pointy. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Kent for the follow-up to the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u202	I thought I'd be back in the school benches for a while. But the question I had asked has to do with the fact that the actual return is disproportionate to the return that pension funds were allowed to count on in the last ten years. Like Mr Omtzigt, I know all kinds of examples of government bonds and so on that yield is much lower than 6% to 7%, but on average pension funds have achieved a return of 6% to 7%; even 10.2% in 2016. Does Mr Omtzig recognise that pension funds, in part by the CDA, have been wrongly able to count on a return over the last ten years that has nothing to do with reality, and that this has meant that older people have been unnecessarily on the zero line and have even been reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u203	We have determined in the Netherlands that pension funds are on market valuation... Mr Van Kent now says that he knows how it works, but the sad thing is that these returns are not so much obtained on Dutch shares but on bonds and the hedge of interest rate risk. And the reverse is going to happen when the interest rate goes up, I'm just saying, because they're partially covered. But it is precisely because of the falling interest rates that it is a bit difficult: just when the interest rate on some twenty-year state bond falls from 4% to 0%, you have made 80% return, 80%. So the crazy thing is that the falling interest rate for part of the portfolio has led to a high return. Then I say: if you want to adjust on one side of your balance, adjust it on the other side of your balance. You may immediately blame me for the fact that the ECB is the only one who does not do it on its own balance sheet, so it is still quite guilty of that. So really, I know where it goes wrong! But there's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u204	Mrs. Van Brenk, another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u205	Mr Omtzig wants to go against the ECB measure, and in that respect we can be on his side, but we also ask Mr Omtzigt to stand by our side now and not to cut down millions of people. You are making a full argument about the current interest rate and you say that it is realistic, whereas I think you yourself have calculated that there is 1% difference from the ECB's intervention. You are even quoted in the note following the report. When you talk about the portfolio of ABP, do you have to say that only 25% is invested in bonds? You have a whole speech here, Mr Van Kent said: we are getting a lesson from Mr Omtzigt, but it is not realistic, is it? Are you on our side and is the CDA not going to see that there are huge discounts in 2020 and that you are standing there, looking at it and saying: it is okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u206	As Mrs Van Brenk said earlier, even the ABP currently stands at a coverage level above 100. So please do not use the words "big discount" in the same sentence as the ABP. That's not the point. If you also say: we are going to lower interest rates, then you will indeed have a deficit, then I would like to join Mr D66 in saying that there is a significant shift between generations. That's calculated by the CPB. You can find anything you want. Let me give you another example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u207	I think Mrs Van Brenn already has a follow-up question. I think that's the quickest thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd really like to ask a question. If this level of coverage stays that way, there's a difference. You can't find a 3% discount much, but for many people that's a lot. The essence, however, is the question of what the shift is. All claims, young and old, are equal. Who then intervenes in the claims of young people or who intervenes in the claims of older people? Explain that again. In our view, you're talking nonsense now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u209	If Mr Omzigt now responds to the interruption, I think that can be done briefly and forcefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u210	There's a fixed amount of money in a pension fund. If you think you can raise pensions for one group without lowering things for the other generation, then you are working on a fiction. Let's get this straight. I wish it were different. If you think young people haven't paid a price, I'd like to remind you of the ABP. In 2013, all active persons built up 2.05% per year and retired at 65. Five years later, the build-up rate has been reduced to 1.875% and the pivotal age has gone to 68. That means that you actually build up 20% less per year than the generation that is now retired. So the idea that young people have not been reduced in recent years is not true: they have been reduced by 20% in the annual pension structure compared to a few years ago. So, if you're talking about a balanced policy, please put that in your comparison. I really think that's being swept under the table a little bit now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u211	I suggest that you continue with your speech now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u212	Mr. Chairman. I asked the questions about the cliff edge in five years. What happens if you turn this back in five years and there's still a low interest rate? I did come from the Brexit debate. I'm looking at Minister of Social Affairs right now. There is another problem that I share with Mr Van Rooijen, and that is his attention last week to the survivor's pension. We are not talking about a discount of 0.5% or 1%. A little further towards Mrs Van Brenk, the coverage rate of the ABP was 101% on 31 December and the average coverage rate has risen 3% in recent weeks, according to the Aon pension thermometer. My guess is ABP's already on that line. But the survivor's pension is a problem. The subject of my maiden speech was already that that is a completely underhand child. I would like to ask both the petitioner and the Minister how they look at what is happening at the ABP. Indeed, a reduction of 1% or 2% is painful and also a long-term freeze. But if the Anw partner coverage goes down in one go, that means for a number of people people who have to deal with the question: "What happens to your next of kin if you die yourself?" They are faced with discounts that can reach more than 50%. I would like to have a comment from both the petitioner and the government: how do we see this in terms of legal certainty and other matters? And isn't it time for a survivor's pension on a building-up basis? Remember, the government agreement does not mean that a good survivor's disability pension is essential. Pension began once in the Netherlands for widows, orphans and people who had had an accident at work. They now seem to be a little forgotten in the pension reforms. I hear Mrs Van Brenn shouting that 50PLUS has asked questions about this. The CDA has also asked questions about this, but I also think it is important to have that discussion here in advance. Mr. Chairman. It is an interesting initiative by Mr Van Rooijen. I really mean it: I appreciate it very much when colleagues are not only tabling a motion, but often writing while they are standing here at the cathedral, because that is what we have seen here, but not all of us are here today, as well as simply doing the hard work to put forward such a proposal. But I'm afraid the proposal hides the problems for five years in the closet, so to speak. In my view, it is really important that matters such as those at the ECB should be tackled at the root of the problem. As a CDA, we look not only five years ahead, but also ten years or thirty years ahead. Because our predecessors have always done so, we have the beautiful pension system as we now have. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u213	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u214	Mr Omtzigt raises a number of legitimate questions. He is also right to cite the Anw and the ABP's survivor's pension. My question is this. We are also touching on the system debate with this debate and this cabinet has said: the acceptance of workers and employers is essential, especially when it comes to pensions. We know that it is difficult at the moment and we hope that the social partners will come up with something, but what if they do not succeed and there will be no ESC advice? What does the CDA do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u215	That is an interesting and rightful question, but I shall not ignore it, and I shall give an evasive answer. The reason for this is that when I say 'this is the alternative that we put on the table as governmental parties', I actually give the negotiators the opportunity to choose between that alternative and the alternative of the social partners. I want this discussion to be conducted by the social partners, and I want to make it explicit that I do not want to burden them. I fully share Mr Van Dijk's view that the pension system belongs to the social partners and that its private nature has ensured that we really have an excellent system compared to the systems of the neighbouring countries. I hope that the social partners will come out with some creativity. As far as we are concerned, in the margins of what is stated in the coalition agreement, there is also good reason to think about a slightly different solution, as long as they come out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u216	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u217	Thank you for Mr Omtzigt's reply. The trade union movement has indicated that it wishes to include the heavy professions of people who do not actually make it to retirement. Is there room for that at the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u218	The negotiations are with the cabinet. I've already had the discussion here as to whether I'd rather be in the cabinet. I really think it's appropriate not to tell me where the space is right now. The social partners should turn to the Minister for Social Affairs to see what opportunities there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u219	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-3.u220	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. At a time to be determined, we will continue the treatment, in consultation with the initiators. For the time being, it seems that the VAAs, subject to reservations, do not need to be allowed to continue. I therefore suspend the sitting until 1.20 p.m. Then the Chamber will proceed with the order of business.
