ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is VAO Dutch-English in higher education. I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. I give the floor to Mr Özdil as the first speaker on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank all my colleagues. The debate brought to the table that, despite the differences, all parties recognise the added value of multilingualism and the use of English in higher education. I would also like to thank the Minister for her constructive answers. The Minister agrees that multilingualism in higher education is essential for the strength of our country; we should therefore encourage it in a good way, but it should not be an end in itself. This is important in order to be able to participate in the world summit on education, research and science in the future. That is why GroenLinks is pleased that the Minister does not want to sit in the chair of the training courses, but leaves room for a substantive assessment on a case-by-case basis. Similarly, I think it is important that there are enough Dutch-language training courses and, like Mr Van Meenen, I stress that the use of English should not prevent access and the flow of stackers. I look forward to the SCP report on this. At that point, I'd like to start talking to the Minister. Students also support the importance of using English. That's what I'm attached to. One of the biggest concerns of students concerns the quality of English. During the debate, the Minister confirmed in her reply to my questions that it is important that higher education learns much more from the good examples from bilingual secondary education. In order to help further develop that interest, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that bilingual education (tto) has 30 years of experience in using English;]] [[Whereas the tto has achieved proven successes in language policy, didactic concepts and a quality management system;]] [[Whereas the training of the tto teachers usually takes place from teacher training courses;]] [[calls on the Government to ask Nuffic to facilitate, in consultation with teacher training, the sharing of best practices between secondary and higher education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özdil. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-622]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u4	I now give the floor to Mr Beertema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u5	Mr. Chairman. The Minister sends out contradictory signals about the englishment in education. For example, she has spoken of "only in terms of added value," but she has also stated that she does not yet have a crystallized vision. Politically, therefore, we in the Lower House and our colleagues in the Upper Chamber have not yet had a serious opportunity to deal with this engelization according to the democratic rules of the game, let alone that it has led to legislation. And it is also about something that leads to reasonable social unrest. In the meantime, higher education is taking its chance, so that's how I see it and continues to english it at a rapid rate. I am afraid that we will be faced with an accomplished fact: an english education that is almost impossible to humiliate again without high costs. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the growth of higher education is rapidly growing in an uncontrolled manner and that it is not justified, in view of the quality of education, to allow this development to continue indefinitely until a new legal framework enters into force;]] [[calls on the Government to take enforcement action in the absence of the necessary legal requirement for the use of English, for example in the case of English as an end in itself, until the Minister's announced proposals have been reflected in legislation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-623]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u6	Mr. Chairman. In this VAO I would like to quote a few more statements by the Minister in general consultation and at the end a statement by myself. I admit to the Minister that I am not constantly quoting myself, but I am quoting myself again today. I have heard the Minister say: "I think that at the moment is one point where we should ask ourselves: where do all these choices per training lead? Someone needs to be sufficiently concerned about that overall picture. I believe that as a system responsible, I have my responsibility for this." I have also heard the Minister say: "I would not like the fact that courses are in English, for certain groups, for example for students with a migrant background, would really be too big a barrier for first-generation students." She also said: "If one university chooses to do a certain degree programme in the English language, it is necessary to examine with one another who guarantees the offer in Dutch." I also heard her say: "Let's put it first: once a choice has been made for English, it doesn't mean that it can never be reversed." And further: "When reviewing the funding system, we need to look at institutions that attract foreign students to raise student numbers at their own universities." I have also heard her say: 'But I do have three things to say: English as an educational language must be appropriate to the nature and content of education and to the labour market situation; if education is given in English, English must be of good quality; the choice of English must be made transparent; and participation must be involved.' These are all good comments from the Minister, and they make us look eagerly forward to internationalisation policy. Finally, I would like to quote myself: "We are going to look with great interest at the letter coming before the summer. If that nuance in that letter would lead to the truth being put in the middle, I would be very dissatisfied." And by that nuance, I mean that little bit half-hearted thing that might have been in the answers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u8	Mr. Chairman. The SP sees a development with great care in which universities and also colleges of applied law in the field of English-language education are increasing to the maximum in order to obtain the necessary student numbers in particular. That is bad because it can harm the accessibility of education, because it can adversely affect the quality of education, because it can mean that the choice is limited and that Dutch as a scientific language is under pressure. In the AO we have spoken quite firm words about it. And, frankly, the Minister has also spoken fairly firmly in that AO and a number of things promised in the run-up to the letter on internationalisation, namely the possibility that the NVAO training accreditation will include English-language education, which will also be checked whether the funding system does not affect it too much and that, if necessary, the law should be amended. We're quite happy about that. So that's what we're facing. That does not mean that we cannot do anything about enforcement now. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Article 7.2 of the WHW states that education is taught in Dutch and that another language can be used if the specific nature, establishment or quality of education or the origin of the students so requires, in accordance with a code of conduct adopted by the institution administration;]] [[noting that the codes of conduct referred to in Article 7.2 of the WHW appear to be untraceable or absent at a number of colleges and universities;]] [[Whereas, according to Article 7.2 of the WHW, any college and university offering English-language education must have such a code of conduct;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up an inventory of all codes of conduct in colleges and universities as referred to in Article 7.2 of the WHW and to introduce sanctions in the absence of a code of conduct at a college or university,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-624]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u9	I already said something during the AO about my frustration that you can't find them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u10	Thank you. Mr Bishop has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u11	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to add my thanks to colleagues for the fine and meaningful debate on the position of English in higher education. For the sake of clarity, I support Mr Futselaar's motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is very important for the quality of education that decisions on the language of instruction in higher education are carefully taken;]] [[Whereas it is desirable for the public accountability of institutions to have a clear overview of the considerations that play a role for institutions;]] [[calls on the Government to periodically review the content and application of the codes of conduct, in accordance with the original intention of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-625]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Bishop. The last motion will be copied and distributed, but perhaps the Minister can start in advance. We're just waiting for the final motions. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u13	Mr. Chairman. Some of you said it, too. We had a good debate during the general consultation on the use of English in higher education. In my opinion, that was a nuanced debate, in which we exchanged good points of view. We have exchanged exactly what we are talking about: the added value of using the English language in higher education, which you can question and where there is a need to steer. Mr Van der Molen has rightly said that I am also concerned about what all these individual decisions of training lead to. We also need to see where to express the system responsibility. Once again, we are dealing with three things. It is about the quality of education, it is about the accessibility of education, but it is also about efficiency. Where, for example, can those students who really like to attend their education in Dutch still go and how do we ensure access for all Dutch students? These are legitimate questions that were raised during the debate. Mr Van der Molen, but I assume that was a slip of the tongue, said I would have said that where English was chosen, we cannot reverse it. I didn't say that. There is no reason not to reverse that, but I think that was a small slip.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u14	That's right, and I realized that when I said it, but I didn't correct myself. On the contrary, I was very pleased with the Minister's statement when she said that once you have switched to English and it is not right, you can go back. That is the crux of the matter. You need to be able to fix mistakes, even if you have chosen English on the wrong grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u15	Fine. Then we understood each other well. Then I come to a judgment on the motions tabled. Mr Özdil has tabled a motion on item No. 622 which asks the Nuffic to share best practices from bilingual education with teacher training. I think, and he said that, that we also exchanged this point in the AA and I actually promised that I thought that was a good idea. Apparently, he thinks it is necessary to strengthen that with a motion. On the question of whether that is necessary, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mr Beertema has a motion on item No. 623 in which he actually asks me to enforce the law. That's what a ruler always does. We uphold the law and we support it. Only, because of the context in which he said this and also because of his contribution to the AO that motion is getting a bit of a load, because he also says: there is an uncontrolled growth this time. That's just the question. Whether there's going to be an unbridled growth between now and June, I don't see it. By the way, we are preparing for the vision letter. The inspection is also engaged in research into how English is applied in higher education. I am also saying this to Mr Futselaar and Mr Bishop, because this is also about the codes of conduct. We are doing the details of the research in the context of the vision letter, to take a good look at what we want the inspection to look at. If the inspection now finds that a real law is being broken, we have the usual instruments of inspection. There is always room for improvement and then escalating. In the tone of the motion and in the tone of Mr Beertema, I taste a little the desire for a moratorium. I would be against that, because that is not customization and would also be contrary to the law. When it comes to enforcing the current law, I say: yes, that can always be expected of me. We also do research from the inspection. That is why I ask Mr Beertema to hold the motion and first to see what is in the vision letter before he puts the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u16	In response, the Minister does not see this unbridled growth. I can see that one. Nor did the Minister see it when I said in the debate that English has even become the administrative language in the institutions, whereas it is not necessary at all. Then the Minister denied that, too. She also called that a sandwich monkey story. I've been on Twitter... I've been trying to reach you on Twitter. I advise you to follow my Twitter account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u17	I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u18	You can be very wise about that. I gave an example of a university in Breda where all memos are written in English. There are colleges where the plates of the toilets and the library and so on are only in English. That's what I call an unbridled, unnecessary growth. So there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u19	What about the motion? The request is to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u20	But if he's talking about signposts to the toilets now, we're not talking about language choice in education. So we are not talking about the application of the law. Yeah, if you want to fill exactly, we're gonna be precise, too. I can't. I think it's about a tourism course with a lot of international students in Breda. It is a very internationally oriented education. However, we can hope that students of a tourism course will master English enough to speak to all those foreign tourists in the Netherlands, whom we very much like to receive, in very good English.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u21	Well, you, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u22	Then it is not about education. It goes much further. I am trying to make it clear to you that there is an almost ideologically passionate hang to english, in everything, including in the memos, also in the mails, also in the administrative language, even in the meetings with only Dutch-speaking teachers. That means it's almost rolled out with a religious missionary drive. That's the problem that's going on. There's more of those weird examples of that poet in Groningen, for example. You know that example too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u23	Mr. Beertema...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u24	That's how far it goes. That's what I'm afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u25	This is a VAO, so a brief continuation of the general consultation. I therefore ask the Minister, Mr Bertema and the rest to be brief and to confine you to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u26	Yes. I gave my opinion on the motion, so I think it would be useful if it were to be held and if Mr Beertem had another night's sleep on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u27	I'm gonna sleep for the night, and we're gonna hold her until the vision letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u28	At the request of Mr Beertema, I propose his motion (31288, No. 623). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u29	Sleeping a night is always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u30	Until the vision letter you can even sleep several nights. Mr. Chairman. The motions on the documents Nos. In my opinion, 624 and 625 aim at the same thing: look at the codes of conduct. Mr Futselaar and Mr Bishop actually have a point there. Because, yes, if an education chooses the English language, it must also be laid down in the codes of conduct and they are not always easy to find. For this reason, I will have the inspection investigate further what is going on with these codes of conduct. In the light of the vision letter, I would like to examine, in consultation with the inspection, what should be the exact scope of an inspection letter on all those aspects of English. That research is about 2018 and 2019. In that light, I ask you to hold the motion until we discuss the vision letter. We will go into more detail on how to send the inspection to deal with this kind of thing, so that we can really judge it. I therefore ask Mr Futselaar and Mr Bishop and Mr Beertema for their motions in part No. Section No 624 and section No 624 respectively. 625 to hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u31	Mr Bishop, excuse me, perhaps first Mr Futselaar, who tabled his motion earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u32	The problem is this. The motion is now deliberately filed in anticipation of that vision letter. It is about the current policy, the current legislation. The vision letter may be a run-up to new legislation. I think both motions are more focused on enforcement now. That is why I am less inclined to hold my motion, unless the Minister says: I am going to send the education inspection out, so the motion is not necessary. If she says she's gonna do the motion, I can do something, but the SP isn't inclined to wait for the vision letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u33	The inspection's gonna investigate this. We are in a preliminary discussion with the inspection: what exactly is the scope of the investigation, how are we going to decorate it? Yes, we will also look at the codes of conduct. In the vision letter I will explain exactly what the inspection is going to look at and how, if necessary, we will escalate to it. You may be served in that letter at your beck and call. In that sense, I would say, "Wait a minute for the letter." If you think it's really not enough in there... It's just a few more weeks. You should be able to exercise that patience. Hold the motion until then. I would like to ask Mr Bishop the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u34	Mr. Futselaar, you can think about it until Tuesday. Then Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u35	I think this is a rather remarkable reasoning. The minister says she's obliged to uphold the law and that she does. This is where the law is not kept. Both Mr Futselaar and Mr Beertema and I add our finger to that. We are asking for action to be taken on this. The minister says she's working on a vision letter. Then maintain for a moment that there is no maintenance. That's a little remarkable reasoning. Following the Minister's line of thinking, I would like to suggest to her that: okay, this is a form of policy support; actually, I want to do so; this is a back-up for me to have a ruling on the direction we should take towards the Parliamentary vision letter. That would be a somewhat more friendly interpretation, both of Mr Futselaar's motion and of Mr Beertema's and me's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u36	If you're gonna paraphrase me, you're gonna have to do exactly that. My request for the motion to be held does not mean waiting for the vision letter, because everything will come back to that. No, I'm currently discussing the inspection of a research project already planned for 2018 and 2019 on internationalisation in higher education. In the vision letter I will explain in more detail what the scope of the research will be and how we will take that up. You may notice that I am served here at my beck and call. In that light, you can hold the motion. As a general rule, we do not need any motions that the Minister is already working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u37	Finally and briefly, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u38	Surely this underlines the interpretation of "support policy"? The Minister can appreciate a ruling from the Chamber for the discussion with the inspection. That only underlines that this is the most appropriate way to go, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u39	That's your opinion; I'm a different one. If you really want to do me a favor, and you obviously want to do it, because you want me to see something as support, I would say: keep her on, because that is exactly what I would like to see. I think we're on the same path.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u40	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-11.u41	We are going to vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
