ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the position of 55-plussers in the labour market. I would like to welcome you all. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, the guests in the gallery and anyone who follows this debate along a different path. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk. He speaks for the SP. For the sake of certainty and completeness, everyone has a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You don't get it easy when you're a 55-year-old loser. The odds at work are 3%, Radar calculated last year. This percentage will now be higher, but finding work remains difficult. A lot of older people apply for a job, but that's not much of a deal. The application requirement for this group is therefore quite humiliating: to write letters every week, to receive rejections every week. Is the government prepared to abolish the application requirement for this group? Of course, guidance to work must be available to those who need it. Companies all too often prefer young people because they are cheaper. Age discrimination is the order of the day. Ask Albert Heijn. Is the Minister going to tackle this with the help of the Labour Market Discrimination Team? The same applies to labour migration. This morning we read in a wakey morning newspaper that the government wants to trade illegal immigrants for migrant workers. How bizarre is that? More than a million people are on the sidelines, including many older people. Stop that displacement and take that race down with the wages. Mr. Chairman. Many 55-plussers entering welfare are chronically ill. Those people have been dumped into welfare under Rutte for the past few years. The inflow into the disability allowance, the WIA, is cut off. Only people who are more than 35% unfit for work still receive this WIA benefit, but if you are 30% disabled, you have hardly any chance of getting into the labour market. It's kind of hard to put these people on welfare. This cabinet wants to limit the influx into the WIA even further. I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u3	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u4	I would like to hear Mr Van Dijk explain his statement that young people are cheaper. Is he referring to youth wages? I know a lot of elderly people who want to work for the minimum wage as long as they are out of that benefit. Could he possibly specify that a little more?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u5	You're right about that. It's about youth labourers, for example. We all know: the supermarket is actually almost explicitly looking for younger people who are going to fill those courses. It's not as easy to see someone who's grown up. So it was about that group. We must put an end to this. It's just forbidden.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u6	Mr Van Dijk continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u7	Mr. Chairman. Then there are the people with the heavy professions who do not reach the ever higher AOW age. They too will end up in the assistance after the WW. That's why there's a lot of quiet poverty there. Mr. Chairman. The SP says: fight against labour market discrimination, abolish the job application obligation for 55-plus, stop dumping sick people into welfare, stop labour migration leading to displacement and make the income provision available to older unemployed, the IOW, for every unemployed person aged 55 and over. Then you prevent older people from sitting empty-handed after their WW because their partner still has some income or because they have their own home. And last but not least, set the AOW to 65. Mr. Chairman. In the Radar programme, the problem of older unemployed people was discussed in depth. We see a lot of desperate 55-plussers who don't get to work in any way. They have therefore launched a petition, which has been signed no less than 113,000 times. That's an important signal. We therefore support the proposal to keep a small-scale experiment in line with the petition. This amounts to a regular low income provision for unemployed people over 55. We are not bothering these people with a senseless re-integration or job application obligation. We're going to carefully evaluate the pilot, of course. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u8	Thank you very much. I call Mr Gijs van Dijk. He speaks for the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u9	Thank you, Mr President. This is a very important subject: the 55-plussers who are not getting to work. We have, of course, prepared this subject very carefully, but since yesterday afternoon I have been thinking a little differently, because yesterday afternoon we received a letter on how this cabinet deals with people with disabilities who can and want to participate fully in a fully-fledged workplace. This cabinet says to those people with disabilities: you do not participate, you get a lifelong benefit, you do not get a pension, you do not get full WW and disability insurance, you are inferior; even more, you can work below the minimum wage. What's that? What kind of cabinet is this? On the one hand, this cabinet says with us that it is going to combat discrimination against older people and against people with a different background, but in the meantime it is putting a very large group on the sidelines, below the minimum. That is only real discrimination with regard to the Labour Party. I'd like a response from the Minister to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u10	Mr Van Dijk's speech was taken from my heart. We just had a meeting with the Human Rights College; your colleague Mrs Dijksma was present. That College has produced a report on the UN Convention on Disabled Persons, which should be equivalent on the basis of that Convention. The College considers that there are indications that there is a form of discrimination against people with disabilities, because they are not rewarded equally, do not receive a pension and so on. In my view, it would be good if perhaps the entire opposition were to make a point of discrimination against these people, unless the Minister responds positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u11	Is the PvdA prepared to do that? That's the question, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u12	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u13	Mrs Van Brenk makes a justified point. We're certainly prepared to do that. That's where we'll find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u14	Clear. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u15	The situation of 55-plussers is indeed a major problem, as Mr Jasper van Dijk said. We know many personal stories of people who are sidelined for a long time. I spoke last week at an FNV meeting with a divorced woman, who has been sidelined for years, sending endless letters and knocking on the door to the municipality. She says to the municipality: I would like an education; can you help me? She also knocks at the UWV: I would like an education; can you help me a little, because I don't have that money myself? She's stuck with bureaucracy. Of course, we've set up our system to help people, but it seems like the system is working against people. It's full of good intentions; we all have them, but how are we going to fight this bureaucratic monster, this bureaucracy? How are we going to help the communities in The Hague to combat this bureaucracy? I'd like a response from the Minister. I read the letter. There are some good proposals in this cabinet to get these people back to work. I have a question about one of those parts, namely anonymous application. That is a horse's tool, but we know from the experiments that are currently going on, for example in the city of The Hague, that this works and that people of old age do get to work. Are this cabinet and this minister prepared to work on that? Are we going to set a good example as a government? It's a horse drug, but are we going to roll out that anonymous application wider? Finally, can we take care of this minister? What's his ambition? It has already been said that many people are on the sidelines for a long time. There are good intentions of this cabinet to get these people back to work, but what is the objective in advance? Does this minister have an objective in advance, so that we can keep an eye on him and help him, and so that we can understand each other after this cabinet period: have we achieved those results and have we really helped people get to work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u16	Thank you very much. I call Mr Van Weyenberg. He speaks for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We often talk in this Chamber unfortunately that is necessary about the labour market position of people over 55. Although more and more 55-plussers have gone to work in the last ten years, you still come up very difficult when you lose your job. It is also very difficult to continue working at your company until your retirement age. A number of steps have been taken, including by the previous cabinet. I am thinking of action plans, temporary extra money for guidance and support, and of the role John de Wolf has played in waking people up in terms of the qualities of the elderly, to make it clear that as an employer, you are actually crazy when you leave those talents out of the door. Mr. Chairman. Now the economy is attracting. I ask the Minister: do you see that more elderly people are able to take that step back from unemployment to paid employment? Mrs Van Brenk was right to say that they want nothing more than that. Can you do that now? Do you see that long-term unemployment among older people is now falling and that it is even better to keep older people employed by companies? What can the Minister say about the latest figures? Mr. Chairman. In the Action Plan Perspective for 50+, we introduced the development advice. I still like that idea. Can the Minister tell us how this is going in practice? What's the status? Mr. Chairman. In the Chamber, we have also discussed many times that more can be done in a collective agreement to increase the chances of older people. These are generational pacts, which we debated yesterday in the context of pensions, but also, for example, the approach to certain age-specific elements which, as far as I am concerned, often confirm prejudices over older people, whereas these elements are, to a large extent, no longer of this age. What is the situation with regard to the phasing out of these arrangements? Can the Minister tell us anything about that? Mr. Chairman. It is therefore about labour market discrimination. The cabinet will present a letter before 1 June. I assume that age discrimination is also an important part of this. In times of labour shortages, at a time when you can't find staff, as an employer, you're really not right in the head if you don't hire high-quality people or want to say goodbye to them. It's already a bad idea, but in a time of labour shortages, that seems totally weird to me. Will the Minister also specifically address the issue of keeping older workers on board in the labour market shortage attack plan? That seems to me to be a very good way of giving older people more opportunities in the labour market right away. Finally, I have one question about the last year's application. If you become unemployed a year before your AOW age, you don't have to apply, you're exempt. If you're already unemployed at the time, you're gonna have to keep applying. That's very double. That's Kafka. The minister said he's gonna take care of that. When can we expect that solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u18	Thank you. It does lead to a question from Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u19	I would like to talk about the reason for this debate, namely the Radar petition. As many as 113 000 people say: you must remove the obstacles to the older unemployed. In my opinion, Mr Van Weyenberg also said that he has a great deal of sympathy for this and that he believes that something should be done on this point. You should actually do an experiment with a regular low-income provision for that group. In my opinion, D66 has made proposals for this in-house. Can we count on your support for such an experiment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u20	Let's put it a little more precisely. There is now room for experiments, confidence experiments, assistance. As far as I'm concerned, they're totally unrelated to age. In fact, I find it interesting to see whether, with a different approach, based much more on the ambition of people themselves, you can get a much better exit from the assistance. Those experiments are starting. I'm very much in favour of that. I'm very curious about what comes out of it. If you also say separately for 55-plussers "we're going to make an experiment in which you don't have to apply for and stay at home until ten or twelve years before reaching the age of AOW," I'm actually gonna accept something I don't want to accept. So I am not in favour of that. I want to do everything I can to give these people a chance to stay at work or, in this case, to get to work. Because that's what they really want. I am therefore in favour of experiments in assistance, but I am not in favour of saying, for this group in particular, perhaps ten or twelve years: no work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u21	Mr Van Dijk has a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u22	But I don't think anyone wants to put those people on the couch for 12 years and leave them in the lurch. The problem has been addressed very accurately by the Radar TV programme, as Mr Van Weyenberg knows. This group has specific problems. So I am fine with you saying that we can already experiment, but I think we should also indicate today whether or not we support this request from this programme. I'm thinking, let's do an experiment; it's never made us worse. I'd like to hear if you have the courage to do that experiment, or if you say no, don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u23	I was, I thought, clear about that. I am in favour of generic experiments, but I am not in favour of saying to the 55-plussers: we are going to put you in an experiment, because we really do not think you have a chance on the labour market anymore. I'm gonna put all that energy into all that extra money to retrain and mentor people. So, no, I'm not in favour of the experiment you're asking for. The generic experiment in welfare is already underway and I am very curious about its outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u24	There's been an interruption by colleague Van Dijk. Yeah, it's confusing, but this is Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u25	I have a question for Mr Van Weyenberg about agreements that should eventually be made with employers in order to really get people to work. I think we can find each other when it comes to all the means we need to use to prevent discrimination, but this is a group of long-term unemployed who are not getting into business. Without hard agreements with employers, this will probably die in beauty. What does Mr Van Weyenberg think of a harder objective?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u26	I'm looking for a little something or that's gonna help. I think we do share the goal. I'm just afraid to make an appointment for one group, which is putting another group back on track, which we also want to have in place. So that's complicated to me. I think, however, that in these times, when things are getting better, we should do everything we can to tell employers to take their responsibility and also to give people a chance who have not had a job for some time. Maybe we'll find each other in there. That's good for people, but it's also very good for that company that's jumping over staff. And then, as a government, we also have the task of investing a great deal in providing good guidance to those jobseekers. I think the Cabinet is doing the right thing. So yes, I say to employers: there are a lot of people who want nothing more than to work for your company tomorrow with heart and soul; give them a chance. If Mr Gijs van Dijk is looking for another very separate appointment, with a quota or something, then I am hesitant. But I don't know if I understood him correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u27	A follow-up question from Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u28	Hopefully all kinds of good resources will be deployed from the government, and we will eventually have to test whether they help. We can see that from the figures: is unemployment falling? That is an agreement that we would like to make with the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u29	That is different from the way I have just understood Mr Gijs van Dijk, but this sharpens me. It is true that of all the resources we are spending now, I do not just want to know if it is well spent taxpayers' money, but above all whether it helps people to get back to work. I am also very curious whether the better economy really is creating an attack on long-term unemployment among the elderly, because it is simply far too high. We agree on that, too. So I am taking advantage of your question to ask the Minister how he is going to keep us connected to the development of long-term unemployment among 55-plussers. How many people manage to get out of the WW? Luckily, a lot of people still do. I like that overview, too. Whether you can put a fixed number on that also depends very much on the state of the economy. I find that complicated, but I agree with you that we should keep our finger on the wrist very well. And I say with you to employers: give these people a chance; that is very good for your business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u30	Clear. You had already completed your speech. I call Mrs Van Brenk. She speaks on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The labour market has two realities. On the one hand, we have the sunny reality, with the highest economic growth since 2007, with a drop in the number of unemployed by almost 100 000 last year, and a decrease in the number of WW and welfare benefits. On the other hand, however, we have the raw and hard reality of older people, especially those over 55, on the labour market. Let me just get a few figures. Of the 55 to 65-year-old unemployed, 65% are long-term unemployed. The likelihood of a resumption of work from the WW is only 13% for 55-plussers. From the assistance, that is only 4%. The risk of poverty is greatest for the 55-year-old group up to the AOW age. If you as an older unprepared find your final destination in a minimum benefit pending an increasingly later AOW, that's no wonder. Mr. Chairman. It's a labour market crisis when you're 55-plus. If everyone is badly needed for the tight labour market, then the policy must be that. The 55-plussers need a tough offensive. We want to hear how the Minister is going to deal with this. We received a letter from a highly motivated job seeker former teacher who wants to do a very promising training to teach new Dutch language. But to do so, she must receive training that costs money; money that she does not have. Wherever she makes her request, at the municipality or at DUO, she's out of business because she's 62 years old. Financial support is limited to 55 years. If we need people, we need to provide tailor-made services and we also need to be able to contribute financially to training so that people can get to work afterwards. When is this gonna get off the ground? I'd like a response from the Minister. 50PLUS has the next offensive in mind. First of all: stop pushing the AOW-age forward! Make a pass on the spot! Training and development are the key to maintaining and getting work. Lifelong learning is necessary regardless of age and starting qualification. There needs to be much better, more intensive and more personal guidance for job seekers by UWV and municipalities. Make an extra effort to remove persistent prejudices among employers and in the event of outright age discrimination. That's what they just said. Get more customization in the job application. Don't force people into the Illness Act with senseless obligations. Maintain low labour cost support for older jobseekers. Finally, provide a structural safety net for older jobseekers who, despite everything, are no longer able to get to work. Put an end to the cost sharing standard, especially in the case of supplementary income provision for older people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u32	Thank you. Mr Wiersma has the floor. He speaks on behalf of the VVD. Go ahead, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u33	Mr President, thank you. In its new assembly plant, a car manufacturer in Germany has specially designed a assembly hall for older workers. There are moving toolboxes, better lighting, large letters on computers, more crutches to sit on, robots for heavy and monotonous tasks, magnifying glasses in the work cabinet and a conveyor belt that runs a third slower than in other locations. I have mentioned this example before. This is a good example of a company that sees its employees grow older on average; but not just that. It is also a good example of a company that wants to be ahead of the shortage of skilled technicians and responds to them by retaining the knowledge and skills of older workers by helping them in this way. Mrs Van Brenk has just rightly made a comment about the two realities. There are. We shouldn't run away from that either. On the one hand, more and more older people find work. The number of older workers doubled between 2003 and 2016. Approximately 19% of all Dutch people with a paid job are 55-plusers. So we see a lot of good signals on that side. On the other hand, we also see that this is not always the case for everyone. Some of the 55-plussers are at home unemployed on the couch, having trouble finding a job and becoming despondent from the rejections. Sometimes, because of their age alone, these people think, "Am I gonna be okay?" That problem belongs to all of us. It's all on the retina with us, too. The previous cabinet has done everything in its power, but the solution does not exist. We have to keep looking for a solution. It is certain that the VVD believes that, and hopefully most of the parties here, we must not lose these people from the labour market at all, that they are valuable, that their knowledge is important and that their skills are desperately needed. Especially now that the labour market is getting better and everyone is needed, we must do everything we can to bring that group into the labour market. We are pleased that the cabinet has already taken a number of good steps in this direction. It has invested 30 million to help older people in the WW through training. It is good that there is extra money for personal guidance from the UWV. It is also good that working 45-plussers get a career check. In this way, we help make it attractive for employers to hire older people. They can do that with, for example, the no-riskpolis and a lot of other possibilities that have been arranged for them. Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions for the Minister. In an article by Wijzer in money matters, only 23% of respondents said to discuss physically and mentally healthy working with his employer. Should the Minister not take this very seriously with the social partners, so that the discussion will take place more often? That's one. Two, Mr. Chairman. The development advice is now there for workers. The evaluation might show that this scheme may not be used enough, but is the Minister prepared to see whether not only workers but also those who do not work, who need it most, can benefit from development advice? Finally, the generation pact, Mr President. This is often discussed. I wonder if the Minister has an idea of which forms work best. Last week we had a briefing from the CPB, which indicates that generational pacts are sometimes expensive and make workers extra unattractive. We would like to avoid that, so I am curious about the Minister's response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u34	Thank you for your contribution. I call Mr Özdil. He speaks for GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u35	Mr. Chairman. The Bible says: "You shall rise up before the gray hair and honor the old one." Of course I am charmed by this beautiful Bible verse, also because I get more gray hair every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u36	I'm way ahead of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u37	Thank you, Mr President! Fortunately, we live in 2018, in a society where an increasing age does not mean that you automatically become less active. Older people are dynamic, vital citizens in our society, even when there is physical or mental impairment. When it comes to the cabinet plans for people with disabilities, I agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk's words and concerns 100%. When it comes to the participation of older people in the labour market, it is the task of politics to promote the participation of older people in society. We must never do that over the back or at the expense of the elderly. It has just been referred to by colleagues: unemployment in the Netherlands is falling and growing with economic prosperity and adversity. The decline and increase in unemployment among over 55 people is related to this. However, with the recent crises, we saw that especially the 55-plus group suffered from fluctuations in the labour market. The difference between participation in the labour market between 55+ and 55-minners has been on the Chamber's agenda for some time now. In May 2014, the Labour Market Discrimination Action Plan, which was also referred to, was sent to the Chamber. The last heading of that action plan is about age discrimination. GroenLinks seems right. Whether conscious or unconscious, older people are discriminated against in the labour market. The motion by my colleagues Van Weyenberg and Vermeij allowed the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate to look at age discrimination. My question is how the inspection is going to deal with this now. Does the inspection need other means to better assess age discrimination? The motion by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Gijs van Dijk calls on the Minister to draw up another action plan on labour discrimination. Does the Minister include age discrimination in this? Mr. Chairman. We can read in the government agreement that the Minister wants to make agreements with the social partners and that these agreements cannot be non-binding. The Minister has a lot to discuss with the social partners. How's that going? We're worried, Mr. Chairman. How long can these binding agreements not be made before the cabinet 'consequences', as stated in the coalition agreement? And what will these consequences be? Could anonymously applying for a job by leaving out the age be an example? How is the government itself going to be more prone to involving people with more experience, perhaps a better term than older people, in the labour market? But not everyone can get a job. Fortunately, the Minister agrees with GroenLinks that a patronising job application obligation is not always desirable. What steps does the Minister take to be able to apply more customization at the UWV? For example, a good direction could be to create more personal contact between the job seeker and the UWV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u38	Will you come to a conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u39	Does the Minister see anything in this direction? Finally, Mr President. The hidden unemployment among older people is not always reflected in the unemployment figures. What is the Minister doing to map this group? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u40	Thank you for your contribution. Mr De Jong has the floor. He speaks for the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u41	Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating the labour market position of older workers in particular. They don't look good. Let's get some numbers. Two out of three long-term unemployed are 45-plus. That's about 100,000 people. Six out of ten dismissals through the UWV are 45-plus. 85% of the 55-plussers say it's hard, if not impossible, to find a new job after being fired. Not good grades, on the contrary. The labour market position of older workers has deteriorated enormously in recent years and politics has played a very important role in this. Think of the flexibility of the labour market and the relaxation of the right of dismissal. Even now, politics does not seem to want to see that its drive for reform does more harm in many people's personal lives than it does good. It is therefore appalling that this government once again wants to relax the right of dismissal, which makes it even easier and cheaper for older workers to be dismissed than is already the case. The increase in the AOW age, which means that people have to wait even longer for their pension, also chops at it in many people. But that's not the end of it. This cabinet seems to be doing everything it can to make it even more difficult for the elderly than it already is. Because when you finally manage to make ends meet every month, this cabinet comes up with the crazy idea of increasing VAT, which makes the daily groceries more expensive. Another blow for the survival of many Dutch people. That while in recent years many people have lost their jobs after years of faithful service, have not seen their income improve and are at their expense of what they can still carry. Mr President, as has been said, there is a huge group of people who are having a hard time. According to the official figures, 164,000 45-plussers are unemployed. But as you can see in De Telegraaf this morning, the number of unemployed must be higher. This creates so-called ghost unemployed, unemployed people who we do not see in the figures. This is a distorted image, and we shouldn't have it. What is the Minister going to do to get the so-called ghost unemployed to understand and incorporate them into the figures? Is it true that in 2016 and 2017 some 35,000 55-plussers were flooded out of the WW due to the maximum duration? [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dit zijn er bij elkaar 70.000, een bewijs dat mensen moeilijk aan de bak komen.]] How many people have entered the welfare system in recent years and have had to eat their homes so that they can keep their homes above water because they have become unemployed in the crisis years and years of political malpractice and have lost their income? How many of them are included in the unemployment figures? Mr President, these are important questions that I would like to have a clear answer to in order to be able to take better action for that particular group. I have one final question and it is about the education budget. It is, of course, extremely important that the PVV has also supported the fact that the training budget is effective. My question to the Minister is: what is the situation, how many people are using it now and how effective is it really at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u42	Thank you for your contribution. Finally, Mr Slootweg has the floor. He speaks for the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u43	Mr. Chairman. There is a bright side: the employment rate of 55- to 65-year-olds has increased significantly between 2003 and 2016. The employment rate rose from 41.5% to 63.5%. The number of 55-plussers with paid work doubled from over 800,000 to nearly 1.6 million in that period. These are in themselves good and encouraging figures, but there is also a gloomy side, because although older workers do not become unemployed more often than people in other age groups, it is still very difficult for them to find work again, especially if they have lost their jobs, because if you are over 50 and you lose your job, you have a problem. In the labour market you are suddenly labeled old and employers think that you are no longer educated or will often be ill. Fortunately, there is a positive trend. Recent figures from the UWV show that 65% of the 55-plussers who enter the WW will find work within a year. That's encouraging, but not enough. This means that 35% of the older unemployed do not yet succeed in finding a job. The group of older long-term unemployed is still too large. It is therefore a good thing that this cabinet is doing everything it can to improve the position of 50+ workers in the labour market, for example with the Perspective Action Plan for Fifty-plussers, which seeks, among other things, to remove prejudices about older jobseekers through a targeted campaign. We would like to know from the Minister what the state of play with this action plan is. Furthermore, the cabinet is putting additional resources into more personalised services, both for older jobseekers and employers, and for better matching, and investing in additional training. The reason for requesting this debate is Radar's petition to introduce an experiment for a basic income. Like the cabinet, the CDA is not in favour of a basic income. The basic income reduces the incentive to work and undermines the acceptance and affordability of our social security system based on mutual solidarity and the idea that anyone who can work does so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u44	Thank you. It still leads to a question from Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u45	The CDA is not in favour of a basic income. I understand that there may be some reservations about that. The word "basic income" alone has a huge connotation. I understand you want to have that discussion at another time. But Radar's message, and that should appeal to the CDA, was that 113,000 people indicate that they are not happy with the way things are going now. You mentioned that, too. Many older unemployed people have the problem that they are not getting into work and that they all too often feel that the job application obligation is pointless. Is it possible to push the CDA for an experiment where you put aside the job application obligation and do everything you can to get the people who want to work without bothering them with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u46	In any case, we are not in favour of a specific age group, if that's what you're talking about. We see much more in generic measures and I think they can already be done within the existing Participation Act. A number of municipalities are already working on this. Eliminating a group would make us feel like we're actually writing these people off, and that's really the last thing we want to radiate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u47	I don't want to write anyone off, and I don't think Radar would want to write anyone off either. Do I understand from your words that it might be worthwhile for municipalities, as you yourself said, to work within the Participation Act? Would the CDA support that? If a municipality says "we do want to go ahead with the scope of this petition, a regular income provision," do you support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u48	I think there is room in the Participation Act for a number of experiments and we have to wait and see. I am not so convinced yet that people's labour market position improves by saying that they do not have that job application obligation. I am much more convinced that the action plan as it stands in the coalition agreement, which means that much more is being done to involve these people and that attempts are being made to remove prejudice, is a more beneficial path. It's better than saying: boy, you don't have to make any more efforts, because it's not in there anyway. I am sure that Mr Van Dijk does not mean that, but I simply do not want to accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u49	That has put an end to your input. Thank you for that. The Minister has indicated that he needs a minute or ten suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u50	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the members of this Chamber for asking a lot of questions. I've seen a lot of actual questions. I'm trying to run them as carefully as I can. First of all, I would like to say that it looks good in the labour market. Unemployment has fallen sharply. In more and more sectors there is even tightness. These are, of course, positive signals given in recent years. I do recognize two realities in Mr Wiersma's critique and Mr Slootweg's critique. On the one hand, we see an increasing number of people working until retirement age. In 2017, the CBS showed that the number of 55-plussers with paid work doubled, from 828,000 to 1,6 million. This is a significant increase in participation. Nevertheless, we also see that relatively many 50-plussers and especially 60-plussers are still long-term unemployed. Older workers do not become unemployed more often than other age groups, as 17% of the total number of new WW benefits provided in 2017 belonged to the 55-year-old and over age group. In the case of assistance, that is 24%. But if older people become unemployed, the chance of returning to the labour market is really much smaller; that is, of course, the point. Unfortunately, this has been noted for a number of years. Fortunately, a lot has already started. I'll come back to that in a moment. The Action Plan Perspective for Fifty-plussers started in 2017 and runs for two years. This action plan is a joint initiative with the social partners. So I can reassure Mr Özdil: I have frequent contact with the social partners. The measures in the Action Plan should improve the labour market position of 50+ people in the labour market. We do this by supporting job search, by making people more adaptable in the labour market and by making employers less reluctant when hiring 50+. The cabinet has also allocated 70 million to enable more personal services at UWV. That point has been mentioned a number of times in the questions. In recent years, there has been criticism that there was little room to make this possible. Part of this money is intended for the structuralization of personal services to 50-plussers, i.e. to help people who are remote from the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u52	A question from Mrs Van Brenn. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u53	My question is about this point, about support. Of the 55-plussers, 73% complain that they do not receive sufficient personal support from the UWV. How does the Minister think this can be improved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u54	Mrs Van Brenn's question is justified. We have also found in recent years that there was little budget available at the UWV for personal reintegration. That is why we have allocated EUR 70 million in the coalition agreement, aimed at personal services and reintegration activities that offer more employment opportunities. So yes, I recognize the signals from Mrs. Van Brenk. It is precisely against this background that we have made available the EUR 70 million. My answers also state when that amount will be available, but I will get to that in a moment. In addition to the 70 million from the coalition agreement, an amendment by the coalition groups made available another EUR 30 million to train WW beneficiaries into promising occupations and training as part of an employer's arrangement. I will also come back to the question of how things stand. Together with the social partners, I attach great importance to good monitoring and evaluation, and I would also say to Mr Gijs van Dijk, precisely to know what works and what does not work. Too often something has been tried while not being properly monitored what did and did not work. This money for personal services is, for example, the result of previous experiments which show that it actually works to personally guide people with a distance from the labour market. A lot of people do not need support and find their own jobs very quickly, but especially of people who are longer on benefits, the perspective is smaller. So I think it is quite right that Mr Gijs van Dijk should draw attention to this. It also has my full attention: many evaluations, a lot of watching what works and a lot of evidence-based work to improve the service. It is important to have a picture of the relatively large group of older people already receiving long-term assistance and to identify successful approaches to support them and, if possible, to help them get back to work. This is happening at UWV, but in line with this, the Secretary of State has also announced that he will shortly be conducting a study into the experiences that municipalities are now gaining in activating and helping people who have been receiving benefits for a long time, including older people, and I would also say to Mrs Van Brenk, who has asked a specific question about this. For older workers who, despite all efforts, become unemployed or unable to work, the Income Insurance Act for older unemployed workers is also extended in the government agreement. Mr President, I would then like to pass a few blocks on which specific questions have been asked: training resources, labour market discrimination, the action plan, the job application obligation, basic income, pay dispensation and, finally, the objectives, the last question by Mr Van Dijk. Mrs Van Brenk asked: when will the training resources come off the ground? As a result of an amendment from your Chamber, the cabinet has made available 30 million euros to enable people to train in the coming period, 2018-2020. This is currently being worked out together with the UWV. The funds will be available in mid-year. I see Mrs Van Brenk getting up, so I'm gonna hold off on answering the next question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u55	And I'll give her the floor. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very nice. I had mentioned a very specific case of a 62-year-old unemployed teacher who could really get a job if she had that education, but her age got in the way. Is there anything else you can say about that? The border was at 55. She didn't get financial support anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u57	Do you mind if I come back to that in second term? I need to sort that out specifically, because I don't have it ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u58	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u59	So I was in education. Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA actually asked how we are going to combat bureaucracy, briefly. Municipalities are, of course, responsible for reintegrating people who are in the Participation Act. I have just said that the Secretary of State and the municipalities are going to see how we can make arrangements to help people out of benefits. The municipalities can provide the necessary customization. That is also what happens in practice. Recently, I have also seen on work visits that municipalities experiment with this and find a successful approach to really help people who are on long-term benefits to get a job. The number of reintegration facilities increased in 2017 and around 90% of these facilities were offered to people aged 55 and over. So there too you see a specific focus. The Secretary of State is now going to investigate what works, what doesn't work and what examples other municipalities can learn from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u60	It is good to hear this from the Minister, but my question was specifically about the possibilities, for example, of receiving training which in this case is co-financed by the municipality in order to increase the possibility of getting a new job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u61	Earlier today, of course, we also discussed this with the VAO Lifelong Learning. Your colleague Mrs van der Hul was present and has tabled a number of motions to consider how we can make training a part of social security. I said in that debate that we should distinguish between UWV and the municipality. I'm not going to repeat everything, but yes, it has our attention. Motions have been tabled and they have received "judgment chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u62	Thank you. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u63	The same applies to Mrs Van Brenn's question. Mr Krol also attended the debate on Lifelong Learning this afternoon. We have also talked about the importance of education and development. Mr Krol has tabled a motion which I have also given 'judgement chamber'. In doing so, I emphasise the importance of training, of lifelong development, especially for the sustainable employability of people in the labour market and the opportunity to find a job again. It is always difficult when two debates touch each other on the same day. It can also be efficient, I hear Mr Van Weyenberg say. That's right. Labour discrimination. Discrimination on the labour market and beyond is prohibited and unacceptable and deserves a firm approach. That is what Secretary of State Van Ark and I very much agree with each other. I do not care whether it is about discrimination on the basis of sex, origin or in the case of today's age. The consequences of discrimination on the labour market are great for those affected personally, because talents and ambitions are wasted when people are treated unfairly. It is therefore important to continue to focus on tackling labour discrimination. At the request of your Chamber, Secretary of State Van Ark will inform you of the steps we are going to take to combat labour market discrimination, including at an age, by means of the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination promised in the government agreement for the summer. Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Özdil specifically asked about the investigation of SZW into age discrimination. Secretary of State Van Ark and I have included them in the letter that is on today's agenda. Age discrimination is indeed a common and persistent problem. Older people in particular have to do with the fact that countless unfair prejudices about older people, namely that they would be more often ill, too expensive or less productive. That is why we have announced this exploration to see whether the inspection SZW can play a role within the current legal framework. This reconnaissance will start this summer. The exploration is carried out by the labour market discrimination team of the Inspection SZW at 30 companies and organisations to be selected and focuses on the policies that have been developed or are planning to develop to prevent age discrimination. During these company visits, the team will check whether and to what extent the Inspection SZW can also maintain within the current legal framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u64	We will await that reconnaissance with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u65	Me too!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u66	We talked about temp agencies the other day. Can this team maintain labour market discrimination from the inspection at the time of discrimination in the recruitment and selection phase? So when a company says, "I don't hire that person because he's too old for me?" This is a crucial moment in the recruitment and selection phase. Will the inspection be able to intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u67	Frankly, I do not know the answer now, also because the Secretary of State is now working on the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination, which also includes the signals from temporary employment agencies at the request of your Chamber. I should actually like to refer to the letter that comes from the Secretary of State, which outlines the broader picture. This exploration that we started and which we also announced in the previous letter we sent together is indeed about: does this fit within the legal framework that we now have and if not, what should we do in the legal framework? We also have that reconnaissance to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u68	I already know the inspection doesn't have that authority. It is just out of the question, so I ask the Minister to think with me. Does he not also regret the fact that the inspection does not have powers in this field, at the recruitment and selection stage? Shouldn't we be looking at that? We are going to wait and see, fine, very well, but doesn't he already share with me the view that that is really a pity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u69	Will I address Mr Jasper van Dijk by saying that I will also explicitly bring this point to the attention of the Secretary of State? That sounds right to me, but before I know it, I say something very stupid because I don't know the backgrounds. So I'm a little careful about that. However, I take note of your comment and your question and I will pass on to the Secretary of State that she will also include this in the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u70	That is good, even if it is only because in the elected chamber that asked for that action plan, we are also being asked to look at these obstacles and because the question is already being asked, I would also like to say this to Mr Jasper van Dijk whether the instruments should be extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u71	Then it might just be part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u72	I hope so, and I expect so. Now the Minister has just said that research is being carried out into the issues that are being discussed. If the inspection finds that it does not have a number of powers, which means that it cannot do things, then that is also input for the Action Plan to see how we could possibly broaden those powers, right? I assume that, in addition to Mr Van Dijk. I understand that in an individual case, the judge ultimately judges, but it is a joint search for ways to give the inspection here more teeth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u73	That is a question in the direction of the Minister. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u74	I understand the background to this question. I would like to put him in the same category as Mr Jasper van Dijk's question. It is the responsibility of the Secretary of State, who is working on this and is exploring it. I am simply not sufficiently aware of this to give very sensible answers. Both questions sound logical and right to me, with the emphasis on "sounding," because before I know it, I say something that I really can't make true. I am just a little hesitant about that, but I will bring both questions to the attention of the Secretary of State, including those of Mr Van Dijk and Mr Van Weyenberg, when drawing up the Action Plan on labour market discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u75	Mr Van Weyenberg's follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u76	That's fine. It's about the result. The investigation is ongoing, apparently. The question is: how can we give you the instruments, which you apparently do not have? If that question is not asked now, I hope that question will still end up in the investigation. I would find it a shame to note at the end of a long investigation that we cannot do all this, and that is unfortunately the relevant question "and what now?" missing. I'm assuming you're not, but if the minister wants to take that, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u77	I think that is a justified addition to your earlier request. I understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u78	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u79	Mr Van Weyenberg specifically asked about the reduction of age measures in collective agreements. The social partners agreed in the 2020 policy agenda to convert generic austerity measures that do not contribute to sustainable employability into targeted tools to increase employability. This also fits in with the story of lifelong learning. As previously promised in the direction of Mr Van Weyenberg, we will include its progress in the collective agreement report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u80	Mr Van Weyenberg for a more detailed explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u81	I know, the Minister has promised it before, and I think that's very good. The reason I am asking now is that this remains a tough point. I am aware that the Minister is having a lot of discussions, including with the social partners, and my colleague Mr Özdil has already mentioned this, so I understand that they get a report once a year, but I was just curious whether we are not seeing a little more progress than the last period. So should the Minister be able to say anything about this in the second term, I would be pleased to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u82	I will do my best, but the appropriate time for this collective agreement report is when the net is also being picked up. But I am going to come back to that briefly in the second term. Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Özdil also asked for an anonymous application. With the danger of referring everything to the Minister of State's Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination, I would like to mention a few very briefly. The subject of anonymous application has been discussed with your Chamber before. Several investigations from the Netherlands and abroad show that we have sent them along with the letter we sent you in January or February.......................................................................................................................................................................................... We often see that it really needs to be anchored in human resources policy, because the instrument itself may not have added value, but its awareness does. It can thus contribute to raising awareness and combating labour market discrimination in the workplace. It is up to each employer, including the government, to assess whether and in what way anonymous application can play a role within the organisation. Once again, before the summer, the Secretary of State will present the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination in which the Chamber will be further informed about the fight against discrimination in, among other things, application procedures. Perhaps I have also taken the point made by Mr Jasper van Dijk on recruitment and selection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u83	There is a question from Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u84	I have an informative question. Is this action plan also taking into account the role of the public authorities in applying anonymously and setting a good example?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u85	Yes. I've just said "including the government."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u86	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u87	What about the progress of the action plan measures? Mr Slootweg and Mr Özdil specifically asked for this. As I said in the introduction, those measures started in 2017. I'm going to list a very impressive list, if the President will allow it. On 5 December 2017, I signed the Temporary Grant Scheme Development Advice 45+ and entered into force. This scheme allows workers aged 45 or over to apply for personal career advice, so that they can also see the situation on the labour market and their chances of doing so. The aim is to reach more than 25,000 people with this arrangement. We'll see how that works, how that works out, and evaluate it to see if it's more employable. A central point of contact is also set up by the social partners for employers' questions on how to keep older workers employable. The UWV has been working for more than a year to support unemployed people over 50 to work, through personal services, tools such as training successfully to work and the organisation of meetings where employers and job seekers can find each other, but also by focusing more on better services for employers, including by improving matching. Matching at work is another separate trajectory that runs. On top of that is the extra money from the coalition agreement, the 70 million we have announced for personal services. As of 1 January, age for the no-riskpolis has been reduced. Employers who employ people who are 56 years of age or older on 1 January 2018 will be compensated if these workers fall due to illness. On 17 March 2017, the Temporary Grant Scheme experiments were published more work for 50+. The aim is to support innovative methods to keep 50-plussers at work. SZW has awarded grants to eight concrete projects. In addition, we have also awarded a grant to the Craft Academy, an amount of 2 million to retrain older unemployed people in the craft sector in particular. I was allowed to perform the festive opening by operating a sewing machine. It was a beautiful day. The positive thing was that a lot of enthusiastic people were learning a craft and there's just demand for it. They are small initiatives that give a very positive picture. The figurehead of John the Wolf is over. I took a nice picture with him. I would like to stress that he has done a great job by generating a great deal of attention on this subject. We're gonna go through with that, too. The campaign continues, including on the social media. In doing so, I would like to emphasise the need for a lifetime of development more than before, because we see that this is extremely important, including in the area of sustainable employability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u88	There is a question from Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u89	It was indeed a very impressive series. I noticed one thing, though. There was something I didn't actually hear and expected. Your colleague Hugo de Jonge is looking for people in health care. Are they part of it, too? There is also a real plan for side-intromers and re-enterers. When there's such a demand and there's such an offer on the other side, my question is how we can match it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u90	That is also what we discussed earlier today. Yeah, that's the thought, of course. In fact, your Chamber has asked me to come before the summer with an analysis of labour shortages and untapped labour potential. In a moment, there will be a specific question. Around 1.2 million people, as the first estimate, are indeed among the untapped labour potential. These are people who are on benefits, but also people who have withdrawn from the labour market and from a benefit, who have not reported as seeking employment. At werk.nl you can do that. It's also people working part-time. We are now making this analysis at the request of Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Wiersma. There will also be an analysis of where the cut is and what possible supply sides are, so that we can use people who are currently on benefit or are not working to fill deficits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u91	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u92	Mr Van Weyenberg asked me about the progress of the development opinion, which is part of the action plan. The Development Advice Scheme was launched in December. Since then hundreds of people have started a journey. And I also have news today, because as of today, people in primary and secondary education can also get development advice, because there is a real need for such an instrument. Mr Wiersma asked whether the Development Opinion could also be used for the unemployed. I refer, for ease of reference, to this morning's debate, in which we also discussed this explicitly in the debate on lifelong learning. Then I come to the application requirement, which is a recurring issue: both in the budgetary procedure and in the debate on the WIA and now again today. In fact, the question is: why do you not abolish the application requirement from 60 years? Or from the age of 55, I've just heard suggestions. I've answered that before. The job application obligation is part of the activating nature of income support. For this reason, beneficiaries may be expected to comply with this employment obligation. This applies both in the Participation Act and in the Unemployment Act. Mr Van Weyenberg rightly said: you are not going to write people off, especially when so many people really have a chance at a job. I also think it is important that people do everything in their power to find paid employment again. As mentioned earlier in the Labour Market Survey, older people and labour market discrimination, it is certainly not the case that 55-plussers are no longer employed. That is really not the case. It is also not in line with government policy. Of course, it is important, and here I am going to meet Mr Jasper van Dijk a little bit, that job seekers for whom this is necessary are helped in the search for work and that there is also, as Mr Özdil rightly said, room for tailor-made work at the UWV. This includes giving advice on how best to fill in the job application obligation for the individual job seeker, the so-called customisation. Through the Action Plan Perspective for over 50 people, investments are made in this tailor-made work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u93	I want to take away every appearance that someone, let alone myself, wants to write off the 55-plussers. That impression really needs to be taken away. What those 113,000 people signed up for at that Radar petition is that they're going crazy over the pointless job application obligation. I'm sure the Minister knows stories of those people who say, "I have to write letters every week, and I'm really frustrated about this, because I always get no at all." So that doesn't fit. In the end, the minister said something about customization. I think we'd better find each other there. That was the call of those people: free us from these pointless applications and give us more opportunities. I think we should put more emphasis on that. That's what they want an experiment for. Do you share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u94	Right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u95	Actually, that's three questions in one. I very much agree with that more opportunity. I have talked in detail about the action plan and all the initiatives being taken to give older unemployed people a chance. We have made additional funds available in the government agreement, and in the course of budgetary treatment additional money has become available for training. So yes, I very much agree with the aspect of more opportunities. Two: the customization is possible. We have added the searchlight to that, and we have looked at it in the Action Plan Perspective for 50+, because we are indeed hearing these signals. More generically, I do not think it is wise to drop the application requirement. It is also an incentive for people to continue looking for work. I have just said that a large part of the 55-plussers do find work, even within a certain period of time, but tailor-made work is crucial in this respect. In addition, Mr Jasper van Dijk talks in a sub-section about an experiment with a basic income. I am not in favour of this because it will not surprise him because a basic income reduces the incentive to work. Curiously put: a basic income for a large group is either too expensive to work, to give an incentive to go to work, or too low to be social. And also generically, I'm not in favour of a basic income.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u96	Mr Van Dijk's follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u97	Then I would like to tease the Minister, because I remember that the members of D66 of all times have argued for an experiment with a basic income. But by the way, I'm talking to the Minister here. It's completely...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u98	Just for the record...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u99	Yeah, tell me!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u100	Experiments are here. That is what Mr Van Weyenberg just said. Experiments are there, by my mind, in Groningen, Utrecht and Amersfoort. There are a few cities where experiments are being carried out, which the Secretary of State monitors well. This is a generic exception for 55-plussers. That goes too far for me, because the whole policy, everything we do and what I have presented today to action plans and support schemes, is aimed at giving people a chance to get a job again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u101	Mr Van Dijk is finishing his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u102	I'm in a constructive mood today. I think we'll find each other in that customization without having to be a doer of death, by the way. The Minister acknowledges that this job application obligation sometimes does not make sense and that we need to look at more tailor-made work. My request would then be to put the emphasis on that and get to work on it, because I have spoken to quite a few frustrated older unemployed people who have gone mad with the job application requirement as it has now been put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u103	Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u104	We have now set the line with budget for personal guidance, which also includes customization, where you will see what support people need. In that context, I can see it. So far, I have often heard the appeal from the Chamber for a generic exemption. I'm not in favour of that. But in the context of personal guidance, for example, when a person is in training, he is not available for the labour market. If this is good for long-term employability, it can be a good reason. In that context, I want to keep it, in the constructive mood, which I also have today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u105	I'm glad we're complementing each other like this. Mrs Van Brenk, do you have a constructive contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u106	I'm trying to lure the minister a little further, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u107	To seduce.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u108	That's very tempting, but oh, oh, oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u109	I don't know if my husband can hear that. I've offered you a nice book with a number of people. There is the story which Mr Jasper van Dijk also refers to, about someone who has sent 2,000 applications and is still unemployed at home. I've tried once before to get an exemption from the application requirement. That's linked to the advice of the job coach, who guides him one-on-one. In that example, that's a highly educated 62-year-old Groninger who doesn't get anywhere. He's gonna be told by that job coach: now accept that you're not gonna come back to work. That's very difficult for that man, because he really wants to. But accepting that you don't come to work anymore versus having to apply every week is lethal for someone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u110	Please come to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u111	My question is this. Could someone be exempted from the job application requirement if they get the advice of the job coach: this isn't gonna be him anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u112	I agree with Mrs Van Brenk when it comes to analysis. I also find it distressing when someone is told: it is not going to be him. I wouldn't think that was right. I find it difficult to deal specifically with this individual case, but the question of exactly what the signal is when that customisation is possible is right and I am taking it back. If it's all right with you, I'll come back to that later. We often have debates on this subject here, and Mrs Van Brenk often asks the interrupting microphone about these kinds of points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u113	She nods in agreement, so that's a promise. Thank you. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u114	In the context of this customization, I would like to add. Then what are the criteria and what do you test on? I was just at a list of what I had to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u115	That was an impressive list.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u116	It's fast, Mr. Chairman, it's fast. Mr Van Weyenberg specifically asked about the application requirement and the AOW age, about people who are already unemployed and who are a year ahead of the AOW age or who are entering it. I know that argument very well. It is now necessary to adapt the social insurance exemption scheme. At my request, the UWV has performed a u-key, an execution key, and has indicated that this is possible as of 1 May. The arrangement is almost ready. She has yet to reach me for signature, but she should enter on 1 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u117	That's good news. I read'should' as 'all signals are now on green; as of 1 May it is just arranged'. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u118	My pen is ready for signature.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u119	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u120	In his introduction, Mr Gijs van Dijk spoke fervently about the pay dispensation. Yesterday, Secretary of State Van Ark presented her plans in a letter. It'll be dealt with in the Chamber soon. I believe that the debate should also be held on the specific implementation of this plan, which comes from the coalition agreement. The only point I would like to make, in terms of nuance, is that we have the instrument of pay dispensation now, of course, for the Wajong population. So that's what we're already using in practice. But this would almost be entrapment, because I actually want to refer to the Secretary of State, who is going to deal with this letter with the Chamber shortly, because it is now on the committee. But I see that it has failed, because I see Mr Van Dijk standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u121	I realise that this was not on the agenda for this debate. So it's a big exception. Mr. De Jong looked a little angry in my direction. With this, I apologize for that. But it is my heartfelt concern, precisely because we are putting people into benefits for life, while on the other hand the objective, including this cabinet, is to help people into work. That is very important. What applies to us, of course, also applies to people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u122	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u123	I know that this is indeed not the debate, but that is my appeal, including to this minister: we want people to work, and there is a full pay, retired, WW and everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u124	It is very tempting, but I am nevertheless referring to the Secretary of State for the substantive answer. My hands are itchy, but the Secretary of State is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u125	I say this for the sake of completeness, and perhaps it is also good for the Acts, because I have just been addressed directly. What always surprises me about this kind of debate is that the Labour Party, when it talks about pay dispensation, always blows off the tower the negative effects of it, while the Labour Party itself introduced it with Secretary of State Klijnsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u126	But I suggest you...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u127	I think it would be good for the Labour Party to mention that next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u128	If you want to have a debate on this, I suggest that you bring it in in the second term and do not hold the debate between us on the interrupting microphone. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u129	If you will allow me, I would also like to refer you to the debate on the letter on pay dispensation, which is completely neutral. Mr De Jong has asked specific questions about the haunted unemployed. In the direction of Mr Slootweg, I have just indicated that it fits in with the analysis of the shortage on the labour market, which is what they call the labour force. There are indeed people who have withdrawn from the labour market, who have not registered as seeking employment, and where there really is a potential. With this analysis we are also trying to make that clear and to think about how we are going to reach these people, because with the shortages in the labour market, we need everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u130	This gives rise to a question from Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u131	Thank you very much to the Minister for answering the question. We notice that in this debate it is about 55-plussers, but when you look at the figures, you actually only encounter figures about 45-plussers, especially when it comes to the CBS. Could you, through the President to the Minister, ensure that a specific group, namely those over 55, is included in the understanding of unemployment? Then we can see not only the 45-plus-range, but also the 55-plus-range.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u132	Mr De Jong asked this question in his first term. I have a letter with the answers to the questions put by Mrs Van Brenk on 9 March this year. This also looks very specifically at the group from 55 to 67, and also the subdivision that Mr De Jong asked for, from outflow to work, outflow to assistance and other reasons, for the years 2013 to 2017. So that really contains all the figures we have at the moment, the most up-to-date figures. In that you can see that in 2017 the outflow is indeed higher, because the economy is attracting, and that there is indeed... Well, the numbers are at your disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u133	Mr De Jong's follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u134	Thank you for that, too. But that is in response to questions that have been asked. My question is more to ensure in the future that we do not have to get the information on that particular group through written questions and that the Minister is now working to specifically appoint that group when the CBS figures come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u135	Structured in reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u136	These figures are from the UWV. This produces those figures and publishes them once a quarter in the quarterly reporting. This morning, in the debate on lifelong learning, I said: follow Rob Witjes. This statistician of the UWV regularly tweets the latest figures. I do not know if the data will automatically be sent to the Chamber, but they are available on yourv.nl. This also includes this breakdown by age.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u137	Okay. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u138	Uwv.nl really has a rich wealth of information, current information, when it comes to that breakdown by age.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u139	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u140	Finally, Mr President. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked me about the objectives. I have already said something about this in the reply. Mr Van Weyenberg also responded. The economic situation is, of course, all-encompassing. At the moment, the economic situation is going very well, the labour market is going well and unemployment is falling very quickly. In fact, after the Second World War, unemployment has not fallen as rapidly as it is now, except in the 1990s. A few years ago, more than 700,000 people were unemployed. It's moving very quickly to less than 400,000 now. I'm afraid to take the claim that it's because of me. That's really not true. It's just the business cycle. It is the economy that performs well. However, I think that we should use the attracting economic situation to help people who are remote from the labour market. This is true for the elderly, but so are immigrants, people with a distance from the labour market and those who have not intervened in a difficult time and who are often the first to be hit again when the economic situation changes. I have indicated that I really want to learn from the specific policy. We're always looking for what works and what doesn't. That is why I systematically try an evaluation framework, an experiment, both in terms of further integration into the labour market and in terms of older people's unemployment. That's purely to see what we can learn from it and what we can use for the wider rollout. I have just said that the fact that we have made 70 million available in the coalition agreement for more personal services is also a result of previous experiments, which show that it works. That's what I want to do. Then we can also show what does and what does not work, and then we can discuss that with you. But proclaiming generic objectives when I know that it is extremely dependent on the economic situation, I do not think that it is very useful, I say with all due respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u141	Thank you. There is a question from Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u142	Let me come back to those unemployment figures. Maybe I haven't clearly indicated what I mean. I am aware that the UWV itself comes up with figures about those 55-plussers. But I was talking about the CBS, the Central Bureau of Statistics. When it comes to the number of long-term unemployed, we have to rely on the figures for over 45 people each time. However, we can see that there is a very big problem with the group of 55-plussers. My question to the Minister is: can he ensure that the CBS figures give us the insight needed to get a more structural picture of the problem of long-term unemployment among 55-plussers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u143	I'm gonna ask you that in a minute during the suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u144	Second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u145	I will come back to that in the second term. I don't know the technique behind this classification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u146	It is of course a good thing that the economy is doing well and that unemployment is falling again and again. That, I think, is mainly an effect of the sector plans of the previous cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u147	I recently sent an evaluation to the Chamber on this. That was not the conclusion of that evaluation, I say to Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u148	That is then entirely my own conclusion. Anyway, that was the subject of today's debate. I do think it would be wise to set goals with each other in advance, for example in relation to the 70 million for personal guidance and in relation to the Action Plan on labour market discrimination. That does not even have to be quantitative, but let us set it up as a Chamber in advance so that we can test it. That's what I'm looking for right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u149	Of course, this is also what we do in shaping the policy. In doing so, we must also make it clear what the intervention is, what the budget is for it and what we expect it to contribute to a speedier resumption of work. What I find vulnerable in this reasoning is that the economic situation is moving in this direction. That's just reality. If things are going a lot worse economically, as in recent years, the effectiveness is also much lower. But even so, by evaluating it and mapping it, you can say: this instrument works better than that instrument. I think that is a fair question and we should discuss it together in this Chamber. But a generic objective, apart from the economic situation, does not, I repeat, make much sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u150	Clear. Thank you for your contribution. This was the government's first term. We shall now proceed to the second term of office. Everyone has a speaking time of one minute, including the tabling of a motion, if you wish. I call Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u151	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas CBS research shows that poverty is high among people aged between 55 and AOW;]] [[Whereas this group is less likely to return to work from the assistance;]] [[calls on the Government to make available to every unemployed person aged 55 and above the Older Unemployed Income Facility (IOW),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with municipalities, to make a proposal for a small-scale experiment with a regular income provision for unemployed people over 55;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-816]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-817]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for answering our questions. Look, a lot's gonna come. That's why I'm not coming up with any motions right now. We are getting an Action Plan on labour market discrimination and we are hopefully getting a lot of good measures to get people back to work. My main message is that we attach ourselves to looking at what does and what does not work per measure. We must also stick to a few tough objectives. But I understand perfectly well that the Minister cannot do that generically now. That will then be something for the next debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u153	Thank you very much. I call Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my view, there is a large majority of very united Chamber, which also supports any additional action, especially as things are getting better economically, to do about long-term unemployment among too many older people. By the way, whatever his age, I don't want anyone to be on the sidelines for a long time. I like to hear how that works and how effective that is. I believe that the Minister has a clear picture of the monitoring of this. I still have a question open from the first term, but the Minister will come back to that. I also look forward to the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination, including the role of the inspection unit, which is now happy. I am extremely pleased that, from 1 May onwards, the somewhat chafkaesque situation in the WW has been resolved in which someone who is unemployed must continue to apply until the day of the AOW age, where that does not apply to someone who is seeking employment within a year for the AOW age. I end with a call to employers. I often hear employers complaining about a shortage of staff. I call on them not to forget all those people who stand by the side, young or old, in these times of crampedness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u155	Thank you. I call Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u156	Mr. Chairman. I'm trying to work through three motions in a short space of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u157	One minute!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u158	This is the first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the CPB calls a temporary extra large budget for retraining and further training of current older cohorts a "useful measure without risks" for the long term, which can help to reach retirement age;]] [[calls on the government to allocate to the 2019 budget an extra large temporary budget for retraining and further training of current older cohorts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Older Unemployment Information Point of KBO-PCOB shows that almost 75% of respondents are dissatisfied with the guidance they receive from UWV or municipalities, and that personal guidance needs to be improved;]] [[calls on the government to encourage UWV and municipalities to step up personal support for older jobseekers and to provide even more tailor-made work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the maintenance of the cost-sharing standard in AIO, IOAW and Anw, inter alia, runs counter to the pursuit of a participatory society, longer independent living and informal care;]] [[calls on the government to abolish the cost-sharing standard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-818]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-819]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-820]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u159	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. First, a clarification on my question. The PVV would very much like to have an insight into how many unemployed and what groups we are talking about. Then we could also actively do something about it. At the moment we see that the UWV defines the group 45 to 55 and the group 55 and older. The CBS consists of the groups 45 to 75. That's a very large group. It would be a good idea to group that together, as with the UWV, so that we can get a better picture of the real problems within the current unemployment rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u160	That leads to a question from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u161	Just one last check from my side. I think you just want to be able to compare the two groups in the numbers of the UWV and the CBS. You want to compare the same age groups. Do I understand Mr De Jong's question that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u162	Exactly. That is when we get a good picture of long-term unemployment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u163	Clear. Thank you for your contribution. Then Mr Slootweg. Looks like he's dropping his second term. The Minister has indicated that he needs three minutes, but I will generously complete the time upstairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u164	I'd be happy to give the Minister the floor for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I said in the first term that I would return to a few points in the second term. First, Mrs Van Brenk's specific point about the 62-year-old woman who is not eligible for training. I knew there was something about that. This morning we discussed this in the debate on the lifelong learning budget, on which Mr Krol also tabled a motion. I had some contact with the Ministry of Education and Science and asked what exactly was the background to it. That motion was dissuaded this morning, because in practice the loan can often not be repaid in time because of the short period up to the AOW age. That's a specific obstacle. However, I have promised Mr Krol in the debate on lifelong learning that I will see if some shortcuts are possible. Unfortunately, I can't be more specific right now. I refer to the main letter I write together with the Minister for Education and Science on the development of lifelong learning which comes before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u166	An interruption by Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u167	Mr President, I was wondering if it makes a difference. I know it goes with OCW from DUO. But what if someone asks that question in the municipality? I imagine you're saying it's a loan that needs to be repaid. Of course, adults of 62 know that they can also finance something after retirement, but let's say that the municipality knows that someone like this can get a job. Isn't that gonna save a lot of months of social security? Then that should be worth the investment, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u168	That could be worth the investment, indeed. This also fits in with the reconnaissance that the Secretary of State does to what municipalities do. This is covered by the Participation Act and that responsibility lies with the municipalities. That's what we talked about this morning. Mr Wiersma specifically asked what the possibilities were. A shorter training course might be one of the possibilities. The Secretary of State is now exploring with the municipalities what is happening in practice with people who are on long-term assistance. There too, the image is of course very heterogeneous. These are different people with different backgrounds and qualifications. Training and training can indeed play a role in guiding people to the labour market. In this particular case, I dare not say anything about it, but we will take it with us in the development of lifelong learning or in the wake of the Wiersma/Van der Molen motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u169	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u170	On that motion, I left the judgment to the Chamber, by the way. The Minister of Education and I will take them with us. Then there is Mr De Jong's question about the CBS figures. Turns out what? There's an ILO definition. The ILO is the international work organisation chosen by this age group because of international comparability. You can't just deviate from that. I understand Mr De Jong's question. I will ask the CBS if everyone could be made available, but I can't say anything about it because the CBS is an independent institution that doesn't hang on to us and because the CBS uses internationally agreed definitions because of its comparability. But I understand the question very well and we will contact the CBS. Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg asked if I could say something about the austerity measures in collective agreements in anticipation of collective agreements. Employees hesitated. They said: we see slow shifts, but to get a really good picture they really need to have the reporting. They have to go into collective agreements to tarnish exactly what is happening. But something's moving. The report is due at the end of the year, I think. Oh, dear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u171	That's always the right response when you get up, Mr. Chairman. My question is about the fact that it is changing slowly. I think the Minister shares the impatience of me and, I think, of many colleagues in the Chamber. I know that sustainable employability is also a trace of this minister's five-track policy. May I assume he's acting a little captivating here? It is right to look at politics. We have a great responsibility and certainly also in the supervision of people seeking a job and receiving benefits. That's what we're making money for. However, I believe that we can also expect social partners to assume their responsibilities. So I'm gonna ask the Minister to make that call in the talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u172	It has also been adopted. In the policy agenda 2020, we agreed with social partners to deal with this movement. I feel the support of Mr Van Weyenberg as a support to continue to draw attention to this. Mr President, I come to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u173	Yes, the motions, starting with the motion in part no. 816.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u174	In this motion, Mr. Jasper Van Dijk asked the IOW, the Invoersvoorziening Elder Unemployed, to make available from 55 years old. This motion I must advise against. However, in the coalition agreement, we extended the IOW, from my mind, for a period of four years. The IOW was supposed to end, but we extended it. The border increases with the increase in the AOW age. Making the IOW available from 55 years of age would cost money, but there is no cover in this motion, which I should also advise against for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u175	The motion in part No. 816: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u176	Although I am in a constructive mood, I should also like to make the motion in part No. 817 by Mr Jasper van Dijk. The motion concerns small-scale experiments in municipalities with regular income provision for the unemployed and 55-plussers. In a few large cities, experiments are going on on guidance and slow situations, only not specifically for 55-plussers but wider. Those experiments already exist and have a framework and are monitored. A separate arrangement for 55-plussers is not a sensible idea. That's how I dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u177	The motion in part No. 817: Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u178	In the motion in part No. 818 asks Ms Van Brenk to allocate an extra large budget in the 2019 budget for retraining and further training of current older cohorts. One. The amendment of this Chamber has made 30 million euros available to the UWV, out of my mind for three years. That's what I want to learn. I want to see if it works. Two. In this motion there is no cover for an extra large budget. For these reasons, I must discourage the motion, so because it is already in progress and because no cover is provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u179	The motion in part No. 818: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u180	In the motion in part No. 819 calls on Ms Van Brenk to "encourage the UWV government and municipalities to step up personal support for older jobseekers and to provide even more tailor-made work." I welcome the motion, but precisely in the light of what KBO-PCOB reported this morning, we have made money available, so we have included 70 million for personal services in the government agreement and 30 million for training. So something is being done with these signals. They are taken seriously and butter is actually delivered to the fish. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to dissuade you from putting even more money in it without cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u181	That leads to a question from Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u182	I'm not asking for money. I'm gonna ask you to go poke at all those municipalities and the UWV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u183	Oh, poke, poke!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u184	Yeah, a little poke, a little push, with peppers left and right, to make sure there's really more customization done. In fact, I would ask you and your colleague to make an effort to highlight it even more. That's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u185	Without pocket money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u186	I already promised. That is why the motion is superfluous. This morning it was also discussed in the debate on lifelong learning: it is about how, with the money we have, we are going to shape the personal guidance and tailor-made work for the job application obligation. So yeah, I'll do it. I'd be happy to do it. But "intensifying" suggests extra money. That's how I read the motion. We are just about to pull this off and bring it to the attention of the public.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u187	Thank you. The motion in part No. 819: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u188	The motion in part No. 820 calls on the government to abolish the cost sharing standard. In the coalition agreement it was decided not to introduce the AOW cost sharing standard. It was in the books before, out of my head, 2018 and beyond. We decided in the negotiations not to introduce them. We have not included in the coalition agreement the extension of other arrangements and we have no cover for them either. The motion has no cover either, which is why I have to advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u189	The motion in part No. 820: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u191	That was the Minister's contribution in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u192	I would like to thank you all for your input, especially the Minister. Thank you, too, for all those who have followed this programme. The vote on the motions will take place next Tuesday, with life and well-being. I shall suspend the sitting until 5:00 p.m. and wish you all a tasty meal. After the meal we continue with the thirty-member debate on abuses in nursing home care. I think that's an appropriate point. You are all cordially invited.
