ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u1	Then there is the discussion of the bill 34652, Amendment of the Implementing Law rents housing in connection with a further modernisation of the Rent Commission and with the introduction of a landlord's contribution. I have already welcomed the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the Upper Chamber. Can I ask those who leave the Chamber to attend committee meetings to do so quickly and as quietly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The proposed bill is intended to strengthen the position of the Rent Committee and extend the tasks of the Rent Committee. This may create expectations for interested tenants and landlords, but the question is how much effect this bill will have on implementation practice. The extension to disputes arising from tenants' complaints about the products and services provided by landlords is quite briefly explained in the written treatment by the Minister by referring, for example, to complaints about the landlord's behaviour and the transfer of the property when the tenant withdraws and leaves. In addition, the Minister indicated in particular what the bill does not cover, what rules already exist for and in which cases the Rent Committee could not play a role. In addition to this very limited expansion of tasks, it is therefore mainly the adjustment of the financing system. In adapting this financing system, it should be noted that the landlord levy has been presented by the Minister as a possible approach to hard learners. In many cases, these cottage milkers will take the increased penalty rates of the Rent Commission, and there is also the risk that the landlord's tax will be passed on to the rental prices. That's twice as much for the tenant. What stick does the Minister possibly have behind the door to prevent this? I'd like a response. In addition, in the Second Chamber debate on house milkers of 28 March last, the Minister in response to the question of my PVV colleague Mr Kops on tenants who, fearing a cottage milker, do not dare to go to the Rent Committee, indicated that she is investigating measures to remove the threshold for tenants to go to the Rent Committee, such as an automatic process to the Rent Committee, and to identify these alternatives. Given the feasibility of this bill, can the Minister state the state of play of this investigation? The Minister also states in the explanatory statement that the Rent Committee has positioned itself as a recognizable window that is easily available to tenants and landlords. The question is whether this also applies to tenants in the free sector. A survey conducted by the Housing Association last January showed that 90% of respondents are not aware of the possibilities offered by the Rent Committee in the free sector. Can the Minister explain this difference with her statement in the explanatory statement? I would also like to comment on this. Mr. Chairman. To come back to the limited extension of the Rent Commission's tasks: what can be more concretely understood by disputes arising from tenants' complaints about the products and services provided by landlords? Can a product supplied by a landlord also be understood as undisturbed enjoyment of residence, in which impairment of the enjoyment of residence is caused by the policies of the landlords? As an example, a housing corporation that, as an experiment, houses young status holders in flat housing. In 2016, RTV Utrecht described such a situation in the municipality of Stichtse Vecht. In spite of a so-called success story presented by the municipality and housing corporation in the NRC, neighbors talked about structural noise and alcohol abuse among other things. A neighbor says, "I can't even walk my dog down the street. Then they start screaming. If I complain to the municipality about that, it's said I have to adapt. It shouldn't get any weirder." The housing corporation did not recognize itself in this image and talked about a successful trial with young status holders. Can the Minister indicate whether in such a case tenants can also go to the Rent Commission to complain about products and services provided by the landlord? In such a case, for example, can they claim a rent reduction due to lost residential pleasure? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. With the example I have just mentioned, I come to a point that is essential for the situation in the Dutch housing market: mass immigration. This Rutte III cabinet brings tens of thousands of migrants into the Netherlands every year. Fake refugees who have travelled through many safe countries and who are rewarded here with a social housing and are allowed to make their families appear on the bargain. It is the uncomfortable truth that makes a heavy change on the available housing offer. Under the Housing Act, municipalities are obliged to allocate a number of properties determined by the Empire to status holders. As far as the PVV is concerned, this should stop anyway. No more social housing for status holders. Fewer and fewer social rental homes are available for our own house seekers, who are often forced to rely on the free sector. Partly because of this scarcity, prices have risen, especially now that housing developments cannot keep up with this pace. In the meantime, status holders receive temporary rent reductions, as with the Tilburg housing corporation Tiwos. To our questions in the written round there was only an evasive answer from the Minister, including on performance agreements with housing corporations. Does this mean performance agreements for the housing of status holders? Could the Rent Commission not be in the picture, for example in the application of the Law on the consultation of tenants, the Wohv? Where can discriminated Dutch tenants who do not receive a rent reduction, on the contrary, the social rent has increased 17%, according to the Minister, or rightly with a complaint in this context? I'd like a response. Can the Minister further indicate to what extent the Rent Commission can comment within its tasks on rental housing because of the policy of housing corporations in the context of the energy transition? These costs can be enormous: 190 billion euros to make all homes of the Netherlands energy neutral, on average €25,000 per home according to the Economic Institute for Construction. Can a tenant go to the Rent Committee when a landlord's erratic sustainability drama, such as the closure of natural gas and the installation of expensive heat pumps, causes higher rent costs? I'd like a response from the Minister. In the written reply, the Minister further stated that the Rent Committee can and may assess the rental prices of housing only by reference to the housing valuation system and the rules on rental price changes for individual homes. As far as the housing valuation system is concerned, although the WOZ value can be traced through the WOZ value window, it is not always transparent on what this calculation is based on. Assessment reports do not always include all the housing characteristics used by the municipality to calculate the WPA value. There are also differences between municipalities. Some municipalities do not give interested parties an insight into the full list, while others manage the data together with the property owner. For example, the West-Brabant Tax Collaboration lets the property owner control and change the data digitally, in order to calculate the WOZ value more accurately. Can the Minister indicate whether interested parties, including tenants, can gain an equal understanding of the complete list of home characteristics? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. So far in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Van Hattem. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The modernisation of the Commission's working methods contains some points on which the SP Group is positive, such as the legal anchoring of the experiment with mediation by the Rent Committee, thus avoiding more complex complete procedures. But on other points, according to my group, the extension of the responsibilities of the Rent Committee is inadequate. This concerns, first of all, the planned extension of the field of activity to the liberalised rental sector. In the future, the Rent Commission can only give advice and then only ask for it together as a tenant and landlord. The Minister motivates this by saying that otherwise the liberalised sector will be too similar to the regulated sector. This seems to us to be a mistake, because the regulated sector, the social sector, is distinguished by the fact that the maximum rents are regulated. And the fact that, at the request of tenants, the Rent Commission can also make rulings on disputes in the free rental sector does not mean that rents will be regulated there as well. We would like to hear from the Minister a more valid argument why tenants in the liberalised sector are denied the right to submit a dispute with their landlord to the Rent Commission. Or, in the absence of this, whether the Minister wishes to improve the law on this point. We also think that the fact that the Minister has so far rejected the fact that the Rent Committee can declare that the landlord must have maintenance done to the property is a missed opportunity. The tenant shall be referred to the court or the municipality for this purpose. But that these are difficult roads, and therefore not good alternatives, the Minister knows, I ask her. So far, the Minister has also rejected the fact that the time limit for a tenant to check whether his initial rental is wrongly higher than the maximum regulated rent will be longer than six months. For example, this is a property that, according to the property valuation system, may cost up to €600 per month, but is actually rented for €1,000. The Minister motivates this by saying that a longer term would be too much of a breach of contract freedom. The SP Group cannot follow this reasoning. In such cases, it is not a question of considering whether a rental should belong to the social or the free sector, but rather a property that is rented out in violation of the law for a far too high rent, a property which, according to the law, belongs to the social sector. For us, it is not necessary to limit the period during which this too high rent can be reversed. In any case, a rental contract, even if it has been established in freedom between the tenant and the landlord, must not be legalised with a rent contrary to the law, after six months, because it has not yet been challenged. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The bill also stipulates that the work of the Rent Committee will now be paid for about half by landlords in the social sector with more than 50 homes. So that's usually the housing corporations. Since they are not allowed to make a profit, these costs can only be passed on to the tenants. This comes back to the high cost of the landlord's tax, which the tenants also pay for. The SP Group is not in favour of this. In defence of this proposal, the Minister states that it is also common practice in other sectors for companies to pay the costs of dispute commissions. But in our view this comparison does not apply, because in these cases these costs are not automatically recovered from the customers and that this will be the case in the social rental sector. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to make a few comments on the so-called middle rents. In the written consultation on this bill, whether or not linked to the Committee's area of activity, the issue of the increasing number of urban rentals in the free sector has been raised on various sides. As a result of this increase, the already scarce housing in many places with a rent between roughly €700 and €1,000 per month, the so-called middle segment, is likely to be lifted to the even more expensive segment. In the major cities a property of more than 60 m can now no longer be rented below €1,000 per month. In Amsterdam this even applies to a house of more than 40 m. First, the social sector is closed to families with more than a low income. Now, in many places, both the purchasing sector and the free rental sector are no longer accessible to these families. Homeowners make great use of the scarcity of housing by chasing rents in the free sector and thus gaining mega profits. With the additional disadvantage that investors who want to buy a house can easily outbid people by the exorbitant rents they can ask for. The chairman of the so-called Co-operation Table, Rob van Gijzel, has proposed that the housing valuation system should be applied temporarily for this part of the rental housing in scarcity areas, thereby limiting the rent level. I understand that the Minister is not in favour of this measure. Can she explain why? As I understand it, the Minister is kind enough to come up with temporary local customization to limit rentals in the middle segment. Can it indicate what it is thinking of and at what time are there proposals from the government to deal with this urgent problem? My group looks forward to the Minister's response to our comments and questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u6	Thank you. I call Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. In the written examination of the legislative proposal, my group discussed on the one hand the governance and financing of the Rent Committee and on the other the position of tenants in the liberalised sector. With regard to the first two points, we are satisfied with the Government's replies. The amount of the contribution shall be determined annually, taking into account the allocation of 50% of the State contribution and 50% of the others as directives. My group believes that this is a good starting point. The answer of the government to our questions and also the questions of the Christian Union about the position of the tenant in the liberalised sector disappoints my group. The rental market is stalled, the price of housing is rising, the offer is falling and the group of tenants who are not eligible for a social rental house cannot move in any direction. There is a large shortage of rentals with a monthly rental of €700 to €1,000. Mr Köhler also recalled that. As a result, rents in the free rental sector are rising rapidly. In itself, we welcome the extension of the Commission's responsibilities. Last week, in the policy debate on the state of the rule of law, the issue was that the process of bringing justice to many citizens is too expensive, too complicated and too far away and that it would be good to resolve more cases with easily accessible, out-of-law dispute resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u8	I hear the PvdA now about the cut on the rental market, but in the meantime the PvdA is still a warm supporter of allowing tens of thousands of migrants every year who are all housed here and can make their family happen. How does Mrs Vlietstra see that problem? Should we not tackle this at the root and finally say 'borders close' instead of laying down the problem with the tenant, by the landlord levy, whereby the Dutch tenant is the victim, while the PvdA allows mass immigration to continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u9	This seems to me to be a question to which Mr Van Hattem already knows the answer. No, we are not in favour of that. We believe that refugees, asylum seekers who are allowed to stay here are entitled to decent housing, as are all the other Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u10	Then I notice that the PvdA allows the problem to survive, to become bigger and worse and to give the Netherlands away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u11	I take note of that. I was talking about the importance of low-threshold out-of-law dispute resolution. We see the reinforced Rent Commission as such an opportunity. However, we do not only grant them to tenants in the social sector, but also to tenants in the liberalised sector. Unlike tenants in the social rental sector, they cannot make use of the opportunities offered by this job extension. Only in the first six months following the conclusion of the rental contract can these tenants appeal to the Rent Commission if they are dissatisfied with the level of the initial rental, but all other cases are only open to the courts. The Minister stated in her reply that he did not feel that this was the case because there was freedom of contract between the landlord and the tenant. However, due to the huge shortage of middle-rent housing and the lack of alternatives, this group is literally at the mercy of the market and, in our view, is in fact out of the question of contract freedom, as the government calls it. Freedom of contract presupposes an equal position for both parties, but many tenants have no choice. The landlord determines the conditions. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she shares this conclusion. In the reply, the Government refers to the recommendation of the Chairman of the Co-operation Table to middle renters to include in their rental contracts that the Rent Committee can give advice in case of rental and service disputes. The Minister agrees and encourages all landlords in the free sector to adopt this recommendation. My group considers this to be a rather lean answer and would like to hear from the Minister how it is going to shape this encouragement. Will it agree to this with the trade associations? If this does not lead to the desired result, what other possibilities does it see to achieve it, apparently, by its desired goal? Is it prepared to develop legislation that strengthens the position of private tenants in this respect? We look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u12	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I give the floor to Mr Schouwenaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. The draft law we are discussing here has been welcomed by the VVD Group. But at the same time with some doubts. During the written preparation we asked some questions. And we thank the Minister for the answer. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports the importance of a low-threshold provision that resolves complaints and disputes. Especially when it comes to rentals, that's a lot of people. The whole social sector, with over two million homes, has an interest in a well-functioning Rent Commission. In general terms, it is advisable to settle conflicts at the basis as much as possible. That is the area of activity of the Rent Committee. And also from the internal and regional complaints committees of the housing corporations. Together they have been doing their tasks for a very long time. That's perfectly arranged. We now have three agencies dealing with rental charges: the canton judge, the Rent Commission and the complaint committees. That sounds like a lot, but it's not. Because they provide a need. However, it is necessary to regulate their relations between them. My group wonders whether the legislative proposal provides that clarity. At least as regards the new area of activity of complaints relating to conduct. Is there a hierarchy between them: canton judge, Rent Committee, Complaints Committee? Do they work side by side? Should the complainant begin at the bottom? The words "only after" and "finally" in the reply indicate that. Or do they not work side by side? And what's there to choose? That is why clarity is needed. Both for the tenant and the landlord. The tenant must not be sent from the locker to the wall. But parties shouldn't go shopping either. Because that leads to unnecessary procedures. On page 1 of the reply, the Minister writes "The tenant may be expected to turn to the landlord in the first instance." My group agrees. That is why we would like to see it established that the complainant will not be able to go to the Rent Committee until the procedure with the Complaints Committee has been completed. We would also like to ask the Minister whether internal and regional committees are equal. Because there must also be clarity about this. Madam President, my second point concerns the fee. One of the proposals is the differentiated fee. My group has difficulty with this. If a landlord loses a procedure with the Rent Committee more than three times in three years, he is considered a multi-user. For him, the fee per case goes up from €300 to €1,400. That is what my group sees as 'a deliberate addition of suffering aimed at improving behaviour'. In short: punishment, intended to enforce behavior improvement. The VVD Group believes that the imposition of punishment is a matter of criminal law and not of rental law. Criminal law provides a variety of criminal procedures and maximum levels, depending on the seriousness of the crime. And it provides safeguards for the defendant. Thus, this tariff differentiation is tantamount to imposing penalties outside criminal law, without guarantee to the suspect, the multi-user. Does the Minister consider this to be desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u14	Mr President, may I ask Mr Schouwenaar through you what he thinks of the reasoning in the reply that, if the highest rate you have to pay is no more than the cost-covering rate, you cannot talk about an indirect fine? Well, that's not actually a sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u15	I do not share that reasoning. That's obvious, I hope. At least I want to make that clear. Punishment can be viewed purely from the person of the suspect; that is what he should be called. That's the one you want him to change his behavior. With the fees we find ourselves in the sphere of administrative law. This is about lifting or restoring a situation that is contrary to the law. That focuses on the situation. That, I think, is the source of your reasoning. I focus on the purpose and the means employed. The goal is to improve the behavior of an individual. The means of doing so is a fine. Whether the proceeds of that fine are further sufficient to cover the costs of the tenancy commission is not so relevant. Angry tongues claim that in traffic fines are being paid out to get the budget of justice conclusively. That too doesn't make much sense. Mr. Chairman. We support the objective of ensuring that everyone abides by the law. In the present case, a behavioral improvement aimed at giving more attention to the rent regulation. But the penalty is less appropriate for my group. Landlords, also many users, use a legal dispute settlement system. That's not a criminal offence. This should not therefore be countered by pseudo fines. My group is asking the Minister whether she will consider abandoning this differentiated fee. Another point with regard to finance is the landlord's contribution. By the way, a somewhat unfortunate choice of words in my eyes. This contribution is mostly paid by the corporations, while they are involved in only 36% of the cases. How can this be justified? Does the Minister see any possibility of improving this relationship? My final point concerns the procedure for the appointment of Members of Parliament. The VVD welcomes the fact that the nomination of candidates is cancelled by the umbrella organisations and that the members are recruited by the board by means of an open application. However, the board must consult with the domes on this matter and the minister must take account of equal representation of the interests of tenants and landlords when they are appointed. My group has doubts about these provisions. It's an important college. It is true that it is out of court, but it is responsible for important decisions in an important area. Only requirements of expertise and impartiality apply. Any connection with the representation of the interests of tenants or landlords shall be affected by such impartiality. The interests of tenants and landlords are best served by their own actions in court against a neutral college. Will the Minister state why she has chosen a role for the domes in the appointment procedures and for equal representation of the interests of tenants and landlords? Madam President. All in all, it is a good thing that the tasks of the Rent Committee are being extended and that the appointment procedure is being extended, but the VVD Group is critical of the points I mentioned: the land marking of the Rent Committee and of the Complaints Committee, the differentiated fee, the landlord's contribution and the appointments. The VVD Group looks forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u16	Thank you, Mr. Schouwenaar. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The housing In and around the big cities in the west and in the middle of the country, house prices are rising sharply, both from residential properties and from rental homes. In some places the sector cooks dry, for the simple reason that the flow does not start and the supply stalls. Consequences: exploding prices and house seekers who cannot get to a suitable home. Fortunately, in this country we have a social rental sector, including corporations that are commissioned to provide affordable rentals and limited rent increases. But also in the social rental sector and especially in the segment just above it, a combination of national policies and market developments has reduced stock in many cities and put pressure on prices. It is another debate to name the exact causes of this, and in any case my group is pleased that in many new coalitions in the cities the motto of the municipal authorities is: building, building, building, for the market for sale, middle rent and social housing. As long as it is sustainable and not too much in the green, I say so. This production, which we hope will start, must provide relief in the long term. But it will be a while before the construction has overtaken the demand. The pressure on prices and rent will therefore remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u18	I hear Mr Lintmeijer van GroenLinks making a very fervent plea for the sustainability of housing in the social housing sector. The figures of the dome of housing corporations Aedes have just been published. This shows that it will cost EUR 108 billion to make the social rental sector more sustainable. How does Mr Lintmeijer look at this, given that it will also increase rental prices? Because the costs will have to come from somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u19	That is an interesting question and also an interesting debate, which I would like to have in all shortness here. My group is very much in favour, particularly in the social sector, of the fact that investment in energy-saving measures is offset by lower energy costs on the account. We have previously tabled a motion in this Chamber to ensure that the tenant's housing costs do not increase, particularly in the lower segment. That remains the starting point for us. At the same time, we are very aware that it will be a very large operation to make the Netherlands more sustainable and to make housing supplies energy efficient overall.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u20	The point is that Aedes correctly says: it is going to cost an average of €50,000 per social rental house to carry out the sustainability. You're never gonna make that back in a short time with some lower energy costs. To what extent is such a proposal feasible? How do you propose to put this into practice? This is totally unrealistic, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u21	In my speech I was talking about the initiatives that local authorities are now taking to build a lot of new ones. Especially in new construction, it is much more efficient and cost-effective to invest in sustainability. Then you don't have to do all those repairs afterwards. So I think it's quite possible to build new with zero on the meter. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say that it is a good thing that there is a low-threshold and independent Rent Commission that can also deal with the question of what a reasonable rent is and where tenants and landlords can submit their disputes. The draft law before us to modernise the Rent Committee and adapt its funding provides for a number of things, some of which I would like to mention: the extension of the Commission's tasks, the addition of the possibility of conciliation, the threshold amount and the modification of the funding. For my group, this is a mix of pluses and minuses, the final weighting of which we will be participating in this debate and the Minister's replies. First, the expansion of tasks. In addition to the demand to check the rent level, this bill also allows complaints about the provision of products and services to be submitted to the Rent Committee. We are in principle in favour of this. This also applies to the limitation of this task: no issues of home expulsion, closure of gas and light or measures against default. Such cases belong to the courts, and so does my group. However, we do have two questions about this enlargement of the task. The bill distinguishes between disputes over a regulated rental contract and disputes over a liberalised rental contract. In the first case, previous speakers referred to this point as well, the Rent Commission may, at the request of a party, settle disputes. In the second case, the Rent Committee can only give its opinion if both parties so request. My group regrets that limitation. Isn't this legislative amendment an opportunity to give the Rent Commission a heavier role, particularly in the mid-term lease segment, and perhaps beyond that? In the explanatory memorandum and in other places, the cabinet always assumes that in the liberalised rental market rental contracts and agreements on the provision of services and products are concluded in free consultation or negotiation between equivalent contract partners. Well, dream on. That assumption is a fiction. There is no such thing as a free market of equal partners. It has become a provider or what-the-crazy-for-given market. Especially in the middle segment just above social sector limits, tenants deserve much better protection as far as my group is concerned. Does the Minister share the view that tenants in this disadvantaged market segment are the underlying party and that they deserve better protection? And can it give direct access to the more extensive dispute resolution at the Rent Commission not be a first step in that? Why, for example, does the Minister not bring the dispute settlement into line with the 2015 Out-of-court Dispute Resolution Act, which protects all consumers? And what further steps does the Minister see to strengthen the position of middle-segment tenants, often people with not the largest wallet just outside the social rental sector? The second question concerns compliance with the rulings of the Rent Committee. A ruling on the level of the rent is easy to carry out: you can see in your bank account if that happens. When saying about treatment, quality of service, what do you get for your service costs and so on, it is much more diffuse. It is not clear to my group how the proposal provides for a test of compliance with the rulings. Can the Minister give us a picture of that? Mr. Chairman. The Rent Committee is going to settle not only, but also mediate. This fits in with a broader social trend and we are not opposed to it if it leads to easier procedures at a lower cost. But judgment and judgment is something other than mediation and, on the contrary, do not pass judgment too quickly. It requires different skills and other skills. The first tests of a limited nature are positive. My group is very curious as to how the experience of mediation or mediation becomes a full and equal leg alongside dispute resolution. Are they the same people who are judges and judges one time and the next time they are mediators? Or will there be separate people and function groups for the two tasks? And how's that gonna work side by side? Does the mediator also take aftercare and assess whether he or the mediation also has a lasting effect? We ask the Minister to keep his finger on the pulse and to inform this Chamber in about two or three years' time whether the conciliation has actually delivered what we expect from it. I'd like a commitment on this. Then there is the third point. We are not in favour of introducing a threshold amount. €3 per month or €36 per year is a pair of new shoes or not for people with a very tight scholarship. In specific cases, it may also be the difference between or without liberalised rent. Moreover, the amount seems arbitrary. Why not €1 or €4? Can the Minister explain why this amount has been chosen and how much less disputes or mediations she expects when introducing the different thresholds? Above all, it is also a matter of principle for my group. The landlord either complies with the points system or doesn't comply with it. There's no such thing as a little pregnant. My group also considers this point to be important in making energy agreements where the premise is that the tenant recovers the investment through a lower energy bill. We discussed this with the Minister earlier in this Chamber. That is precisely what we need to do to maintain our support for this. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance wants to ensure that the housing costs for people with the lowest incomes do not sneak up, even if it is "but" in the government's view at €36 per year. Finally, the funding. For the GroenLinks group, a low-threshold and independent Rent Committee is a great asset. Living is not a market like others in which self-regulation can end. In all segments of the housing sector, the government determines the framework conditions and the rules of the game and government policy determines the mobility space of tenants and landlords. In this context, the current situation is not illogical for the same government to assume responsibility for the financing of a Rent Commission paid out of the general funds from the general interest. It becomes much less logical for the Rent Commission to become largely dependent on the landlords, who have a specific interest in the outcome of disputes and mediation. In the regulated sector and the segment just above it, it is precisely in the vast majority of cases that tenants deserve protection. In order to avoid all appearances of conflict of interest, there should be no great financial dependence on the landlord. In addition: every contribution of the landlord is ultimately paid by the tenant, because that gives the landlord his money. As far as my group is concerned, in view of the role of the government as a game-player in which parties operate, the funding from the general budget remains the most pure one. I'd like a response from the Minister. As always, we look forward to the Minister's other answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u22	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The promotion of adequate housing is a matter of public concern, as it is so beautiful in our Constitution. With the National Housing Agenda that the Minister presented together with many parties last Wednesday, she gives substance to this constitutional article. There is no doubt that this is necessary. In the heavily regulated housing market where supply does not match demand, the supply of housing is rising far too slowly. The housing market is almost dry-boiled in more and more places. House prices rise in many places. Waiting lists and waiting times for social housing become longer and longer. What about the free sector? Well, the free sector. It is still underdeveloped in our country and the relatively few houses are all too often asked for usury prices. You'll only depend on it as a young generation of starters, as a zzp'er or as a earner. I understand, of course, that the free sector must have degrees of freedom, but the housing shortage calls for a government that encourages improvement and, where necessary, dares to limit these degrees of freedom. I'll get back to you on that. The Minister has answered my questions in writing seriously and in fact. I'd just like to see that shovel on top of it in the answer. That is why I am pleased that we are having this debate. First of all, something about what the bill does regulate. That is the position of the Rent Committee, which is strengthened by extending tasks. Tenants can from now on also go to the Rent Commission with disputes arising from complaints by those tenants about the products and services provided by the landlords. That seems to be a sensible step for my group. We support it. The funding structure is also getting stronger. Landlords are going to contribute more. This also makes sense. For the sake of certainty, whether this financing structure still poses risks to the independence of the Rent Committee. The bill actually determines us at one of the biggest bottlenecks in our housing market: the private housing rental market. Where social tenants and homeowners can count on strong support from the government, this does not apply to the free rental sector. And where social tenants can count on good protection, that is much less for tenants in the private sector. This is a problem in everyday practice, especially in the case of the rent explosion in some parts of our country. Some of the free sector tenants are the new vulnerable, placed in an increasing asymmetrical relationship to landlords. Yes, Mr President, I am well aware that the coalition agreement makes sense about this and that the Minister is working on it. I'm happy about that. The recent National Housing Agenda is a striking example. It is a good thing that municipalities look at and also get space to keep inventive opportunities to rent houses that are built as medium duration medium duration, even in the years after that. And it is good that they are already using these additional measures at times, so that the middle class, especially the group with an income between one and one and a half times modal, can continue to move into the housing market. I am thinking of measures such as additional binding conditions for new construction projects. Cities have to work with this. Last week, the House of Representatives also called on the Minister to do everything possible to prevent exorbitant rent increases in the free sector. I am curious to see the Minister's reflection on this and how she launches cities to act self-consciously and accurately. However, it is not enough just to build more middle-class rentals and try to keep the middle-term of these new homes. You'll be looking for a place to live after searching for a long time, and you'll find a place to live that's just to be paid. Do you dare to take steps if you suspect that the rent should not actually exceed the liberalisation limit? Do you dare to raise that high rent with the municipal rental team, let alone with the Rent Committee? Do you know of the possibility? Does this proposal indeed lead to the emancipation of tenants? For this tenant ten others. The tenants who do venture on it are remarkably often right. As I mentioned in the written preparation for this debate: half of the statements made by the Rent Committee between 2010 and 2016 on rental contracts in the free sector, she concluded that the housing should have been covered by the rules of the social rental sector based on the housing valuation system. As a result of these rulings, the rent then fell by an average of 40%. In the reply, the Minister states that the tenant has "an effective possibility of review." That's right. Stays or tenants actually go to the Rent Commission. How does the Minister judge that, is that insightful? Does the Minister know whether a municipality is making sufficient efforts to point out to its tenants the possibilities of moving to the, if present, local Rent Team and/or the Rent Commission on suspicion of excessive rent? Does she intend to make an extra communication effort? And aren't these exceptional circumstances a reason to see if tenants need more handles to determine whether their rent is reasonable? Mr. Chairman. Let's take it one step further. Is the rent protection of tenants above the liberalisation limit even fair? I would very much like to hear the Minister's reflection on that point. As far as my group is concerned, the gap in protection between the social and the free sector is too great at the moment. I know the way in which the Rent Committee gives an opinion rather than a ruling, on the basis of the voluntary nature of the parties when it comes to liberalised contracts. And I also understand that this stems from the principle of contract freedom between tenants and landlords. And of course, there is that possibility of review of Art. 247 Book 7 BW, and the Minister comes up with a bill Measures Middle Rental. I'm happy about that. But if that's what we're talking about, that's what I'm asking the Minister. Are tenants who depend on too small a free sector really sufficiently protected? In its term, will the Minister explicitly address this issue, not only with the focus on all the possibilities that already exist for the landlords and for the tenants, but above all with the focus on the practice, on the problems of today? It is a practice in which not every tenant is self-reliant, as the legislator would sometimes think. Because, Mr President, if the Constitution gives us the idea that "promoting sufficient housing is a matter of public concern," then it is always asking to focus on the real bottlenecks in the housing market. The middle class must also pay a real price for the enjoyment of living. This Minister has the opportunity to take good steps. She has already put a few and I hope she will go even further in protecting citizens from too high rents. I therefore look forward to her reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u24	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Dutch housing market is locked. There's not enough construction. The flow between the different residential sectors has been difficult for years and in many cities it is particularly difficult for start-ups to find good living space at a reasonable price. In the National Housing Agenda recently presented by the Minister, an agenda is proposed to address this. D66 calls on the government to give this the highest possible priority, in accordance with what we have heard from almost everyone during the election campaign: building, building, building. But we also realise that the Empire is only one of the parties and that the municipalities in particular have a great responsibility to make building land available. It is therefore regrettable that the UNG does not yet support the agenda. We expect the cabinet to take initiatives to reach an early agreement with the VNG on this point and to inform the Chamber accordingly. Such an agreement is necessary in order to get that housing market moving again. Mr. Chairman. Modernisation of the law of disputes for tenants is part of a rental market that is in transition. The proposed measures will give the sector a right of dispute comparable to other sectors. A good, easily accessible dispute settlement is of great importance for both tenants and landlords. In fact, there are three ways for tenants to obtain justice in the event of alleged failure of the landlord: the internal complaint committee of the housing corporations, the Rent Committee and the judge in particular. For tenants, the job definition between the different bodies can be opaque. Can the Minister indicate how the information is provided to the tenants? This modernisation also provides for different arrangements for the financing of the Rent Commission. The Empire now largely pays the costs. Soon the landlords will contribute and the distribution will be about 50%/50%. Aedes, but also the House Union, believe that the Empire should bear the costs because the Empire is also the cause of disputes because of the regulations. D66 thinks this is wrong. When we look at the 11,000 cases dealt with annually by the Rent Commission, we see many disputes about the application of the regulations by the landlord. It is therefore only reasonable that they should go along with the costs. At the same time, we also consider it reasonable that those who continue to appeal pay more. In this respect, too, this proposal is balanced. The Rent Committee only works for the social sector in the housing market. For the free sector, it can only provide advice if the tenant and landlord agree. The Chairman of the Co-operation Table has proposed to include in the rental contracts that the Rental Committee can give advice in case of disputes. The Minister takes that recommendation and points out the freedom of contract between tenants and landlords, as has been said a number of times here this afternoon. That is understandable in itself, but at the same time, because of the huge cut-off, even in the middle segment of the rental sector, there is in fact no freedom anymore. A man has to live and then swallows conditions that aren't really reasonable. The landlord makes use of the scarcity and makes money there. But living is a right. Why not a Rent Commission that can settle disputes for the whole sector? If this is not to be considered, we ask the Minister, all the more so because there are many complaints in the free sector which are certainly not unreasonable. This is evident, for example, from the research conducted here in The Hague. Accommodation for students could also be better dealt with by strengthening complaints and disputes law. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group awaits the Minister's answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Pijlman. I give the floor to Mrs De Vries-Legge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We see this proposal as an improvement on the possible handling of complaints as it has been used so far. There is now no need to go directly to court if there is a lasting difference of opinion, and the Rent Committee will soon be better able to try to settle the dispute. So it's not just: "Are the procedures going well, did the landlord do what he had to do?', But it is also about treatment and behavior where mediation can offer more a solution. In short, our group welcomes this proposal, but has a comment to make. It's nice that it happens, but people need to know, so please also pay attention to the publication of this. However, in connection with the exchange of letters, we still have two questions which we believe need clarification. The first concerns when the Rent Commission is in motion. In the reply we read the following. "On the basis of the bill, the tenant may be expected to address the landlord in the first instance. Landlords are free to implement the regulations on the handling of complaints provided for in Article 55b of the Housing Act, but it is common for corporations to set up an internal complaints committee. Only after that is a corridor to the Rent Commission possible." An internal complaint committee. Now there are also corporations, Mr Schouwenaar, who have jointly set up a complaints committee at regional level. The question is therefore how to interpret the word 'internal'. Has the CDA Group understood correctly that this means that the existing routes must be followed before one can go to the Rent Committee? And if not, we would very much like to hear a clarification on what is and is not meant by 'internal'. The second concerns the question of reasonableness. The new Rent Commission is financed in a similar way to the landlord levy. This means that, in addition to the government, only landlords who pay the landlord's tax contribute to the financing of the Rent Commission. These are landlords who own more than 50 rental houses. Does the Minister consider this reasonable, since the Rent Commission is open to all tenants in the SGEI segment and there are also many complaints about landlords of less than 50 homes? For example, I think it is a bad word, but I still use it as a home milker in a large city with 45 homes can cause more complaints to a large extent, but does not contribute to the financing. This seems unreasonable to the CDA Group. Does the Minister recognize this? Normally it's: the trigger pays. In this case, it is therefore a good reason for further exploration. I imagine you're saying that right now maybe one-two-three isn't. But would it be an opportunity to keep track of the complaints that have been dealt with and are being dealt with in the future, and then look at how the contribution should be distributed? I understand that the Minister says that there should be stable funding under the Rent Committee, but the second is: how does the Minister intend to ensure that this contribution does not increase uncontrolledly at some point? Because that could also be a consequence. Mr. Chairman. If you look at the housing market, then I think everyone in this room agrees that this house is not thriving at the moment, let me say very nicely. Mr Pijlman said: build, build, build. Easy to say, but it's happening at the moment, through all kinds of things, that have something to do not only with the social segment but also with the way you can build. I would also like to ask the Minister whether it might be a good time to look at what kind of situation we have in the housing market today and what causes in the past have contributed to a good situation at the time but at the moment perhaps counterproductive work. So we would like to have such a debate with the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u28	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I shall then suspend the sitting for a break until 3.30 p.m. Unfortunately, there is no alternative in connection with meetings of standing committees of Parliament that take place at 3.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u29	The next item is the continuation of the examination of bill 34652, Amendment of the Implementing Law on rental prices of housing in connection with further modernisation of the Rent Commission and the introduction of a landlord's contribution. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to all the first-term speakers. We are talking about a specific bill, a part of how the housing market in the Netherlands is regulated. We are discussing this at some point, and in fact almost everyone has referred to it, and there is also something going on. You can't actually open a newspaper or there's a report about crunched on the housing market in general. The supply of housing is currently a problem and we really need to work on it with man and power. In part, it is all explainable, because in the crisis years construction has almost stopped. So we are dealing with a backlog that needs to be caught up. We're also dealing with growth. That's actually about the whole width of the housing market. It's about social rent, middle rent, and buying houses. Since some have also referred to it, I think it is important to say here that much is happening at the moment to improve the housing market, increase the supply on the housing market and improve the functioning of the housing market. The proposal we are discussing here today is part of that. But there's a lot more going on. Reference has been made to the Housing Agenda, which has recently been agreed with all parties as a starting point for everything that needs to be done. The Crisis and Recovery Act is now being amended, partly at the request of the House of Representatives, so that it can be better used to speed up housing projects. Having said all that, I would also like to say that this does not of course apply to the whole of the Netherlands. There are also areas in the Netherlands that suffer from shrinkage. They actually have the opposite problem of what some of the urban regions, for example here in the Randstad, have. We should also be aware of that, because shrinking doesn't mean doing nothing. No, shrinking often also means that the housing stock needs to be adapted to the population as it develops; often an ageing population. So it is not true that nothing should happen there. This as well as context and perhaps also as a way to meet a general demand. Mrs De Vries asked the question: of course there have been several measures in recent times, but have these measures helped to improve the housing market? An important moment in recent years has been the adaptation of the Housing Act in 2015. It provides for housing corporations to return to their core tasks, namely housing for households who are unable to provide their own housing on their own. That House Act will be evaluated. That seems to me to be the time to consider whether the whole range of measures has achieved the desired effect. Other measures have, of course, been taken. Very recently, for example, a measure to make it easier for older buyers to obtain mortgage credit on the housing market. The Mortgage Platform looks closely at how the mortgage market works anyway. A lot of measures have yet to be taken. Hence the housing agenda I just mentioned. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to continue with the subject on the agenda today. The starting point of the legislative proposal before you is the modernisation of the Rent Commission, inter alia, by bringing funding more into line with whatever dispute resolution is organised in other sectors, with a more transparent and also public appointment procedure for the members of the plenary session, and with a job extension. In this way, the Rent Commission becomes an industry-wide window for disputes in rental matters. In fact, it is not customary for funding to be financed entirely by the public authorities. Other dispute-solvers are often simply financed by the sector itself. In the previous cabinet period, it appeared that solid funding is not self-evident and that often reprioritisation of resources within the state budget was necessary. The proposal is to allow landlords to contribute partly to the financing of the Rent Committee. They also benefit from the fact that the rental sector enjoys a good reputation and that it is possible to settle disputes that are easily accessible. In addition to partial financing by the landlords, the present bill deals with mediation, governance and complaint handling. Questions have also been asked on these issues. I'd love to answer that. The legislative proposal makes it possible to settle disputes through mediation, because a dispute is not always a legal issue. It can sometimes be about lack of communication between tenants and landlords. It can be about expectations that don't add up. When it comes to governance, the tenants' turrets propose members to the plenary committees and the council of opinions. The bill regulates that the Rent Committee seeks suitable candidate members through advertisements and profile sketches and prescribes them for appointment. And the Rent Committee may express its opinion on the merits of tenants' complaints. In addition, it is good to clarify that the corridor to the Rent Committee is only possible if the tenant has initially lodged his complaint with the landlord or the complaints committee of the landlord. Finally, Mr President, by way of introduction: the extension of the contract does not imply that the Rent Commission is empowered to impose sanctions on landlords or to pay the mandatory fees, damages to tenants. Mr. Chairman. After these brief introductory words, I wanted to go over a number of themes and then answer the questions of the Members, starting with the questions that have been asked about the tasks of the Rent Committee. For example, a number of members, at least from the Labour Party and D66, asked whether I could indicate how the information is provided to the tenants, because tenants must of course know what they can knock on. The Rent Committee itself will provide communications about this through their website. It will also make agreements with corporations and landlords. People can also turn to case law.nl. So basically the whole palette of partners is portrayed, just to ensure that good communication towards the tenants. Another question I thought that was raised by both VVD and CDA is whether it is clear enough for the tenant where to go. There are now three agencies. Of course, you have the canton judge, you have the Rent Commission, and you have the Complaints Committee. How does that work? Is that insightful for people? If the tenant complains about something the landlord does, the tenant must initially lodge the complaint with the landlord. I just said that. That's always the first step. If the landlord does not handle the complaint or does not deal with it in good time or if the tenant does not agree with the complaint handling, then the course to the Rent Committee is open to disputes that the Rent Committee can legally settle. So tenants are expected to talk about the complaint first with the landlord or at least try to get out of it, so check with the landlord and see if that leads to a solution. This may mean that they go to an internal or regional complaints committee of a corporation. If they do end up with the Rent Commission, this can lead to a result that the tenant and the landlord are satisfied with, but the court is always open. Even if the landlord says "the Rent Commission has made rulings and I am satisfied," then the tenant can still go to court, and vice versa. So the hallway to the judge is open. This also applies to other procedures in the Rent Committee. And the Rent Committee, but that has already been said by some of you, can of course only decide whether the complaint is justified or not. The Rent Committee does not have the power to award compensation, which, of course, a judge can do. A number of questions about tenants in the liberalised segment. There is access for tenants in the liberalised segment to the Rent Commission. Then it concerns the initial rental price, its review, indeed within six months of the start of the lease. Then the Rent Committee can decide whether the rental price should perhaps fall into the regulated segment. With regard to other procedures, tenants in the liberalised segment also have access to the Rent Commission, only in a different way. The Rent Committee can give an opinion to the tenant and the landlord on a voluntary basis, when the parties agree with each other. The Cooperation Table, also mentioned several times here, led by Van Gijzel, has recommended that landlords be included in their rental contract by default that the Rent Committee can advise on rental price disputes, in service cost disputes. A similar initiative has been taken from the landlord sector of IVBN, for Real Estate Interest, for Aedes.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I'm very happy about that. This needs to be further worked out, but that is the intention and also the intention of those who represent landlords. I think it's very positive that the landlords are coming with this. If this is done on a voluntary basis, it would mean that tenants no longer have to ask permission from the landlord if they want to go to the Rent Commission with a dispute. This initiative lies with the sector itself. I think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u31	If we all think that's a good initiative, why don't we just settle it by law? You have a legal basis on which there is equal treatment of both tenants with a liberalised and tenants with a regulated contract. Simple. Ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u32	As the basis for this assessment is that the starting point in the regulated segment is ultimately different from the liberalised segment. A tenant in the liberalised segment has a contract. That freedom of contract is also important, for both parties, landlord and tenant. I think that the test over the price in the first six months could lead to the conclusion that it was wrongly calculated. Then it enters the regulated segment and creates a different situation. If that is not the case, then there is the freedom of contract. Of course, that Rent Committee has a wealth of knowledge and experience. As a tenant and landlord both believe that the Rent Commission can perform a good function in this respect, I think that is a very good thing. Again, I am actually glad that the sector says: as far as we are concerned, our landlords are going to do that and include it in their contract. Then there is no need to settle that further by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u33	That freedom of contract, that sounds nice, but in the actual market as it is now in large parts of the rental sector, the freedom of contract does not apply. It's an overstretched market, it's a supply market with many more seekers than suppliers. In that situation, you can hardly speak of freedom of contract, freedom of negotiation or whatever you want to call it. It's a swallow-or-choke market, isn't it? In that context, would it be much simpler to simply regulate legally that tenants in the liberalised sector have the same access, in the same way as tenants in the regulated sector? Then you're done in one go and you've taken care of it all at once, especially in a market situation where you can hardly speak of contract freedom in many parts of the country, because it just isn't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u34	I fully agree with Mr Lintmeijer that this situation is an undesirable situation. The market is too tense in that respect. There is relatively little offer, just in that segment of the middle rental. That's actually the first thing that should be solved. Of course, we have not solved that overnight, but an important part of it is to create more supply, so that there is less tension on that market. However, even in an improved market situation, there is a distinction between regulated and liberalised. Again, as far as I'm concerned, the ultimate goal is that tenants have access to justice and have ways to go to court if there are abuses or if there is any doubt about the service costs, the rent or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u35	I would like to endorse what Mr Lintmeijer says: it seems a bit like the Minister estimates the freedom of contract between tenant and landlord higher than the possibilities that tenants in a liberalised sector should have to go to the Rent Committee in case of problems with rental. I understand that the Minister is pleased that the Middle Rental Table, where the private landlords are sitting at the table, thinks that things should be different. But there is no guarantee that this will happen afterwards. So I would very much like to hear from the Minister how she thinks she can put a little more pressure on that from her position. This can be done by legislation, perhaps the Minister sees other possibilities, but this is still too thin for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u36	The suggestion was just made that this should be regulated by law already. What I see in consultation and after the Chairman of the Central Rental Table has given this advice is that the landlords themselves say that they really think it is a good idea that they want to achieve it. Materially, the most important thing is that they want to include space in rental contracts on a voluntary basis. Then there is the possibility that the Rent Commission can play that role, including in that segment. But in the end, I say: for that particular segment, it is important that the corridor to the court can also be conclusive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u37	That hallway to the judge stays. You have just explained this to me about the social rental sector. I mean, willingly, but how much time do you want to give them? I can imagine you saying that I will give them some time to settle that. But at some point in the past six months, it must be true that tenants in the liberalised sector have the same rights as tenants in the social sector on this point, so when it comes to access to the tenancy commission. In my first term, I also invited you to look for ways of achieving that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u38	Yes. I think the approach route is a different one. I welcome the reactions of the sector itself, which have stressed that they would like to create this possibility, so on a voluntary basis and on their own initiative, the standard in the rental contracts provide that the Rent Committee can give advice. Material: if the industry organisations IVBN, Vastgoedbehoud and Aedes, who nevertheless represent the big parties in the Netherlands, realize that, we are where we want to be. How long are we gonna wait and see if that actually happens? I do think it would be wise, after some time, say in a year's time, to see if that is actually the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u39	Finally, Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u40	Let us not forget whether this should be a year or less: I would say that we should be doing this for a shorter period. There's a lot of trouble. What if after that year or six months it turns out that the landlords don't comply, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u41	I find it difficult to anticipate that. I have good discussions, including with these organisations, about a whole range of measures under the Housing Agenda, to get the housing market and the middle-rent segment going, because that is really what needs to be done. That good consultation gives me confidence that these parties will take this seriously. So I do not feel that I need to threaten at this time with a measure that will be taken in a year and a half. But I am happy to say that in a year's time I will be watching with the parties whether they have fulfilled the promises they have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u42	I am afraid that these answers from the Minister are getting a bit out of hand. First of all, I have the question of whether the Minister is not afraid that the landlords who sometimes make a pot of it will not join these voluntary agreements at all and the landlords with whom little is wrong might do so. But there the necessity is also much smaller. In any case, I note that these voluntary agreements will never be able to bind all the landlords. We may not solve the problem at all. But my basic question is the following. I still do not understand that in my first term I explained why the Minister assumes that if tenants in the liberalised sector can turn to the Rent Commission as a right, that would undermine contract freedom. I absolutely don't understand. Isn't that the only thing you can turn to that Rent Commission about your existing contract? He can't say that the rent has to be changed, can he? Apart from the too high starting rents, but in all other cases the Rent Committee can only give an opinion on compliance with the contract or other legal obligations of tenant and landlord. That doesn't affect the freedom of contract at all, does it? In all disputes committees, people are free to take a product from a company or an institution. That's also a form of contract freedom. They can then apply to the Disputes Committee if they consider that the other party does not comply with the contract properly. Why can't this be done in parallel with all the other dispute committees and other branches of industry also apply to the liberalised rental sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u43	The answer to your question is that the housing market with that regulated segment and the liberalised segment is a special sector in which the government has a special role for that regulated segment and has also created special laws and regulations. Again, from the proposal that is before us, there is absolutely no objection whatsoever that the Rent Committee should also have this role in the liberalised sector. However, I think it is important for the sector itself to say that it is willing to do so on a voluntary basis. In my view, materially, we are achieving exactly the same thing as what is being argued here. But that freedom of contract is the difference between the regulated part of the market and the liberalised part of the market. Eventually, the corridor to the judge at that point is the freedom of contract works two ways on the ultimum remedium. The Rent Committee has an important task, of course, but it is ultimately also limited in its task.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u44	On this point, too, I note that we are in fact in agreement, a large part of the Chamber and you, and you say that I want to give confidence to the sector first, so I will give them time. On the other hand, regulation also takes time. So basically, I think if we evaluate that in a year's time, we'll come to the same point. I would ask you to include in this evaluation which different groups are now making use of this possibility. What about the big owners and the smaller owners? It has already been pointed out that especially for the smaller owners of homes, when it comes to students, for example, this causes a great deal of burden. I would ask you to include this in it and to allow the evaluation to come to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u45	Of course, I'd be happy to admit it. It is wise to extend this evaluation fairly widely. I need to see when we're doing an evaluation of the whole thing. My commitment just now saw this particular aspect, which I do think you should look at in a relatively short time, such as a year, to see if this voluntary cooperation that is now being initiated from the sector is taking shape. In fact, I think it would be wise to include this in the evaluation of the whole, as suggested. I'd be happy to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u46	Thank you to the Minister for the commitments. At the same time, the problem is now acute and we see the asymmetrical relationship between landlord and tenant, as I have mentioned, increasing daily. I very much share the Minister's commitment to the sector, because it is a liberalised sector. So come on and show me you're worth it, I'd like to say to the sector. But if we wait a year and if we still have to make regulations when things are not going well, I would like to know whether the Minister intends to be able to proceed immediately in a year's time if it does not succeed. Can she shine some light on that? That's one question. Another question that I consider to be very important concerns the degree of material protection of tenants in the liberal sector. I mean, of course, in the 'liberalised' sector, because the liberal sector is that of the President. There are target groups that can pay fine and that of course helps to drive the price, but do the target groups that need it find the middle class, the policemen and sisters in this city so to speak, the rent protection they need? How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u47	That last point is actually a broader one. If we want to achieve much more middle-rent in the Netherlands, I will talk about this when I talk about the housing market in the regions, then the municipalities have to take action in their policies. This means that when they issue land, land use plans and possible land use plans, they have to make agreements with those who are going to make the housing work about middle rent now, next year and in ten years' time. That might be the best rent protection we can offer the tenants. Surely that's more comprehensive than the hallway to the Rent Commission. I think that is how we should approach the issue. Because that's the problem now. We talk to each other at a time when prices are rising. We need to make sure that this cannot be done so easily, because then the less wealthy people who can pay a little more than social rent are constantly fishing behind the net. That shouldn't happen. The main thrust of Mrs Bikker's first question was: to move on after one year. I would like to say that it depends very much on the situation. If it looks positive, we can all see that the voluntary and own initiative from the sector was appreciated. In the other extreme, if it just didn't happen, I think the cabinet says it has to be different and we're gonna take care of it ourselves. But there are, of course, all kinds of intermediate situations imaginable. So I want to keep the options open in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u48	Two-way again. The Minister is constantly in talks with the sector and has her senses stand out for what is happening. But if it does not go according to the wishes of this Chamber or the Minister himself in a year's time and does not match the intentions of the coalition agreement, I would really ask her to ensure that legislation is in place quickly and that it does not have to wait for a very long time. At least that's a little my fear. My second question is whether the Minister can reflect a little more on the emergency button needed in this area at times of high economic growth. If we wait long enough, the problem will be solved by itself, simply because high-conjuncture does not last forever. Is it not therefore wise to develop a more effective toolbox in this area, which gives the government a power of control at these moments? The Minister of mine does not need an immediate answer to that. She may also study on it and come back to it later, but I think it is one of the issues of these days.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u49	Mrs Bikker is absolutely right: I am not going to wait a year, of course, because I am constantly talking to the sector, the regions and all the parties that can get the housing market in the Netherlands in order. It is therefore appropriate to ask in the interim and to inform whether this point is being worked out satisfactorily. In fact, it is not intended to see that this did not go well until after a year. Mrs Bikker is absolutely right about that. I have already had the opportunity to debate the emergency button in the Lower House. That is an initiative of Van Gijzel. With an emergency button, there is an acute problem in a particular municipality or region that they find so acute that the housing market cannot function properly. The municipalities and all parties active in the municipality then consider it necessary to take temporary measures to reduce, reduce or control these price increases; whatever you want to call it. I have said that I do not think it would be wise for the housing market to come up with an extension or a new regulated segment that you are now establishing and which you are ultimately attached to. But I can imagine something in a temporary exception, however you shape it, on the basis of a specific specific request from a municipality or region, in consultation with the parties active in the housing market there. I also told the House of Representatives that I would like to look at that. By the way, there is also a vote on a motion there this afternoon. I could, of course, forward to your Chamber both the analysis and the possible effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u50	We have all noticed that there are major problems in the housing market. That's right; you can see that every day around you. But now the impression is created that extending the competence of the Rent Committee would contribute to the solution of the housing shortage. Is that how the Minister sees it? Not me; let me say that right away. Could she explain that to me? A second question about the same is the following. Of course, we also have the canton dishes. That is the body for the free sector. Are the canton dishes seriously inadequate at the moment and are they unable to cope with their task? Or is that, as it has always been, an easily accessible and directly functioning body?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u51	On that last point, I do not have any signs of failure. I agree with the description given by Mr Schouwenaar. On the first point, I do not think it is suggested that there is a direct relationship between solving the housing shortage and the tasks and powers of the Rent Committee, not by me and not by the other speakers. I do share the analysis that due to the current overcrowded housing market there is a risk that tenants will get in trouble. I think that's what the discussion is about. Perhaps there are more tenants who need a role or an opinion from the Rent Committee. The question is whether this is now sufficiently possible. My thesis is yes. I think that the proposal here is an improvement, including for tenants in the liberalised segment, for example because of the possibility of having the initial rental price checked for the first six months. In this sense, I believe that what is now here can contribute to a better functioning of the rental market, albeit in part, as I have just outlined in my speech. But it does not necessarily contribute to more dwellings, if that was Mr Schouwenaar's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u52	The Minister gives Mr Schouwenaar part of the answer I would have liked to give. Nor do I think that the questions we are asking the Minister are contributing to solving the housing stock in the liberalised sector. It's about access to the Rent Commission. My group believes that it should not only be available to tenants in the social sector, but also to tenants in the liberalised service sector. I hear the Minister say that she has confidence in the trade associations and that she wants to give them time to live up to that trust and to include it in the rental contracts on a voluntary basis. If this has not happened after a year, the Minister says that it is inclined to take action. But in an interim sense she said: there may also be a lot in between. I'd like to hear more about that "in between." I can't imagine much other than that the Minister will come up with legislation if it turns out that it doesn't work after a year. But apparently she sees other possibilities. Maybe she can say something about that? I am very concerned about all those tenants who do not rent from a landlord who is affiliated to one of the branches at the table of the minister. Maybe she could say a little more about that, too? How could these tenants get some more rights when they feel that they are not being treated properly by their landlord?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u53	The first question was about that year. That year begins with the observation that these interbranch organisations have now said to me, to you and to each other that they think this is a good idea, that they want to cooperate and that they are going to work it out. That is a positive signal and I think we should give them that opportunity. Like I said, I've been sitting at the table a lot with them and others to talk about the housing agenda. They are also party to the Housing Agenda. That gives me the opportunity, of course, to inform you in the interim about how this is going, so that we will not be back at the table again in a year's time and then perhaps we will find that it would not be good enough. That was my suggestion. Precisely because I have confidence in the positive approach they have chosen, I would not want to put that legislation above their heads already. I sincerely do not think that is necessary. If it is necessary, we can always do so. Of course, we must also be clear about the fact that there are, of course, real abuses in the rental market. There are stories about cottage milkers and there are really too high prices in free rental. This is just happening in Amsterdam, in Utrecht and in a number of other cities that are very popular at the moment. In all honesty: the Rent Committee is important in the Netherlands and plays an important role, but these kinds of abuses must of course be addressed at all. That should not only be done through the Rent Committee. There is, also in the municipalities, a lot of attention to how house milkers can be countered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u54	Mrs Vlietstra, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u55	Yeah, just one last comment. In that particular situation, it could help if there were legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u56	However, I think that the legislation referred to by Mrs Vlietstra, namely access for everyone to the Rent Committee, is nice, but I do not think that is the only answer we need to fight house milkers. I think that it really needs more, and I think it is also very good that the judge occasionally comes to terms with that, but perhaps Mrs Vlietstra agrees with me. There are a number of other questions on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u57	Mr. Schouwenaar also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u58	Excuse me, I'd like to come back to the last one. I heard Mrs Vlietstra say: 'liberalized, what a word'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u59	I tripped over that word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u60	Oh, I just wanted to say that I assume that's what she meant nicely. Can you indicate the added value of the Rent Committee in relation to the canton dishes? I think that the canton dishes here really are getting a little out of the picture. There is an excellent provision with excellent remedies. Aren't we getting past that a little too easy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u61	Perhaps I gave a very brief answer to Mr Schouwenaar's question. There are actually three possibilities, three bodies: complaint committees, Rent Committee and Court of Justice. I think that's good, too. I also think it is a good thing that a tenant with a complaint first simply reports to the landlord via the normal complaints route and then there is the possibility to go to the Rent Committee. Depending on the type of complaint, it may be resolved through the Rent Committee. If not, the parties are free to go to court. If the parties themselves choose to skip that step and go straight to the canton court, that is possible. That freedom has people. I agree with Mr Schouwenaar that this is a good thing and that it can also work very well. Mr. Chairman. I'll continue with the answer. Mr Van Hattem asked me for an explanation as to why, in his opinion, there is relatively little knowledge of the Rent Committee among tenants; I think he was talking about the free sector. That's actually what we're trying to do with man and power. It is important that tenants and landlords are informed and are also aware of the opportunities available in the free sector for them to make use of the services provided by the Rent Committee. We have just had a whole debate on this. Mr Lintmeijer actually asked who checks whether the ruling on a complaint is actually being carried out. This must be done by the tenant and the landlord themselves; this is how the system works. If either of them does not comply with the judgment, the other may bring an action before the District Court. Mr Köhler of the SP asked whether the six-month period should not be extended. That period of six months was deliberately chosen to give the tenant enough time to actually become a tenant of the property. You can imagine people still want to fix up the apartment. People just need to settle down. So you can reasonably judge the rental price. I therefore believe that these six months are sufficient. If you were to extend that period, there would be some uncertainty, even among landlords, about whether the agreed rental price will continue to apply. That has to do with the freedom of contact I have just spoken about. In my opinion, a period of six months is reasonable. An extension of this could eventually lead to a somewhat unreasonable long term. Mr Lintmeijer also spoke about the threshold of €3 per month. That threshold is not included with the aim of preventing too many disputes. The essence is that when a case comes to the Rent Committee, it has to be dealt with in proportion to the costs that will be incurred if a complaint is to be dealt with. That is why this threshold is used. In fact, I have already mentioned the instruments for local tailor-made work in connection with an interruption. I don't know if anyone else wants to come back to that. That was about customisation in co-rent, but to the gentlemen of the SP and GroenLinks I say that I think their questions have just been answered in response to a question from Mrs Bitter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u62	I am very positive in this debate. So I'm definitely not "Bitter."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u63	Bigger. Oh, did I say "Bitter"? Excuse me! No, it's Mrs. Bikker. I think I said it right before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u64	For the Acts, everyone will know all about it from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u65	Absolutely, and I'm not wrong anymore. Mr Köhler drew attention to the position of the tenant, because it may sometimes be a difficult route for the tenant if he had to go all the way to court. The essence of his question was, in my opinion, whether the Rent Committee actually has sufficient powers. For example, under the law, the Rent Commission does not have the power to enforce maintenance, and that is what Mr Köhler is about, but has the power to reduce the rent. The judge can enforce maintenance activities. It is therefore important for the tenant that, depending on the type of complaint, both bodies are easily accessible to him or her. I think that's the basis of everything. I have just said that, in my view, the judge is also easily accessible to tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u66	Yeah, but that goes for the whole thing. In all cases, if you find that your opposite party does not comply properly with its obligations, you can with any complaint to the judge. But I asked why in the specific case of maintenance complaints the easier way through the Rent Committee is not accessible, because the Rent Committee cannot rule on this, other than rent reduction, but that does not resolve your maintenance complaints. So why, unlike other subjects, is this subject being excluded from the easier way through the Disputes Committee? In this case, why should only the canton judge make a statement on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u67	Yeah, why? Of course, that's a question. I understand very well that Mr Köhler says that you could do this differently and that you could extend the powers of the Rent Committee even further, so that they could enforce those maintenance activities on this point. That is not the system chosen, but by giving the Rent Committee the power to decide on the rental price and thus also to achieve a reduction in the rental price, I think the same effect can be achieved indirectly. If that doesn't happen, the hallway to the judge is open. If it is only accessible enough, I think this equipment is also a very good and passable route for the tenant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u68	Mr President, if I may try again, with your permission... The Minister replied: 'that has not been chosen now', but my question was why the Minister, or at least the government, did not choose to do so. A lot of complaints are about this. Surely it is obvious that the Rent Committee is an easier way to go, because that is why it has been set up, precisely on those common complaints. Then there is still the fact that the Rent Commission itself cannot enforce that. If the landlord doesn't do it, the tenant still has to go to court. Why is this easier way out for these common complaints? This must be based on a substantive consideration. You propose that we continue to rule that out. My question is: why, what are your arguments for excluding this obvious proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u69	Mr Köhler thinks that is a very obvious choice. My reasoning would be that it is obvious that the Rent Committee should focus on the reasonableness of the rental price. In doing so, maintenance, whether or not to perform maintenance activities and even the state of a home, are of course relevant. This is also a relevant consideration in the points system. Eventually, it also makes it clear to the tenants that the Rent Committee is about whether the rental price is appropriate or not in relation to all those factors related to the tenant. The fact that the ruling can be made that the rent should be reduced is, of course, a very relevant statement. For all kinds of other matters that go with it, the Rent Committee cannot force that directly. If there's really a problem there, then the courtroom hallway is possible. I think this also does justice to the fact that the Rent Committee is not a judge. The Rent Commission is not a judiciary. By maintaining this, there can be no ambiguity about this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u70	Finally, and briefly, Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u71	Now, in your bill, the Rent Commission is not only about rental prices, but also about products, services and even about the behaviour of the landlord's staff, but the most important service it has to offer, namely the houses well maintained, which it is not about. You have not yet convinced me why it should be reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u72	Maybe in second term, Mr. Köhler, who knows?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u73	Mr President, you are now suggesting that you ask that question again in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u74	No, no, maybe the Minister will come back to it again in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u75	I think that's a better suggestion, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u76	I fear that I may repeat myself, but sometimes that helps, because I would like to convince Mr Köhler. I believe that Mr Köhler is also well placed in the legislative proposal before us, although he would like to go a little further in some areas. I think that there are also very improvements to the proposal for tenants. If I could convince him, it would be worth something to me. Mr Van Hattem also had a number of questions about the role of the Rent Committee. He asked if the tenant could go to the Rent Committee, if rents become high as a result of sustainability or sustainability measures. The tenants of course have an important role and therefore power when there are renovation proposals, because the landlord always needs permission from the tenants. For complex housing improvements, and this is often the point, when it comes to sustainability, consent from at least 70% of the tenants of the residential complex is required. If less than 70% of tenants agree, then the landlord must go to court to ask if the proposal is reasonable. If tenant and landlord agree on the renovation, but for example not on the related rent increase, parties can ask the Rent Committee about the rent increase within three months of completion of the renovation. The Rent Committee checks the rent increase due to housing improvement against the investments made to improve the property. The rent increase is always limited by the housing valuation system, so I think there are enough handles there. Another question from Mr Van Hattem is whether tenants can rely on what he called spoiled living pleasure by nuisance. Mr Van Hattem spoke specifically about status holders. The Rent Commission is not allowed to issue a rent reduction in the event of a disturbance of the home enjoyment, for whatever reason. The judge will have jurisdiction at first instance or at first instance. He also asked where tenants can go with complaints about rental prices. He noted that some groups in the housing market had to pay lower prices than others. In general, there are also a lot of different rental prices. That could have all kinds of causes. If tenants have complaints about this, but I know the specific example he did not mention, they can of course simply go to their landlord, or to the Ombudsman. Mr Lintmeijer asked the Minister to monitor the mediation. Every year in the annual report, the Rent Committee mentions the progress made by the Rent Committee in mediation, so I can monitor it and the Chamber can also keep it in the reports of the Rent Committee. Mr Lintmeijer also asked if they were separate mediators. At the Rent Committee, mediation is done by mediators. Those mediators are not involved in the ruling that follows if mediation fails, and that is important. Evaluation is also foreseen and the Rent Committee conducts customer satisfaction research. Mrs Bikker also had a number of more specific questions about the reputation of the Rent Committee. I have already said a few things about this. Perhaps I can add that in the autumn of last year an information campaign was carried out by my department, aimed at students, to also point out to them the possibility of going to the Rent Commission. A test on the initial price is one of the components that has been brought to the attention. That campaign will be repeated this year. Then we will also see how we would like to reach other target groups of tenants. It's done for students and we want to broaden it a little bit. In a number of municipalities there are so-called rental teams that provide information and help tenants in their course to the Rent Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u77	It's a good thing the Minister's gonna make that communication move. Thank you for the commitment that this will be further developed. I would ask the Minister to go with the municipalities where the need is greatest, to see which target groups need to get more knowledge of this so that we reach the people where the pain is and they also find the way to the Rent Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u78	That seems to me to be a very valid point. It is partly solved by what I just told you, by extending the campaign aimed at students to other target groups. Because there are large differences locally, I think it is very important that municipalities also look very closely at which target groups are relevant. That's what's gonna happen to those rental teams. In the talks I have with the region, I will also pay attention to this. Mrs Bikker also asked about the exorbitant rent increases in middle rentals. I've already said something about what municipalities can do themselves. In the National Housing Agenda, this also has the attention of all parties, including the municipalities. We have agreed that there will be independent research to gain insight into the rent increases in the liberalised segment. We look at the existing construction, but also at new construction. We will use all the figures published by various bodies. We have just talked about the central cooperation table led by Rob van Gijzel, but there are also local cooperation tables that will pay a great deal of attention to this. In the Housing Agenda, the VNG is, of course, an important party as a representative of the municipalities. The municipalities, of course, have very important tasks under the Housing Act. When we discussed the Housing Agenda as a starting point for everything that needs to be done, the VNG was just there. Only because of the fact that there is now college formation in many municipalities, or that lectures have just started or have yet to take office, has the VNG said that it was an unfortunate time for them to put their signature under that housing agenda, but of course they are fully on board. There are a lot of points of interest. It is a table with parties who all have to do something and have all kinds of points of interest from their specific point of view. The same applies to the VNG. I think that's very legitimate. Everyone now realizes that we will really have to put our hands on it together now. No one can solve this problem on their own. Especially the municipalities are extremely motivated to solve it. The signature is not yet underneath, but the involvement is no less. The bill of mid-rent is in preparation and will reach the First Chamber by the usual route. In any case, this legislative proposal includes the drafting of the proposal in the regulatory agreement for the simplification of the market test, so that corporations where the market is not going to be able to invest in middle-rent. It will also be about a clarification of the Housing Act, so that municipalities can label middle-rent housing as scarce. Then these properties can also be kept and assigned to the middle-rental group. So that bill's coming up. Then a limited number of questions have been asked about the financing of the Rent Committee, which is also part of this proposal. Mr Schouwenaar said that such a differentiated rate happens to be the punishment of those involved. I think he also said that perhaps some more words could have been devoted to it in the written answers. That is why I am happy to answer the question here. At present, the Rent Commission uses fees that are not cost-covering and the purpose of the differentiated rate is to allow the landlords who have been unsuccessful several times to pay a higher share of the costs of their dispute. Because this cannot be taken into account in the landlord's contribution, it has been proposed to introduce a differentiated fee for those so-called many users. So it's not a punitive sanction, because it couldn't be, but it's a way of getting the person who actually causes a lot of costs to pay a bigger part of it. I hope that this explanation by Mr Schouwenaar will lead to a little more understanding of the proposal. I think that the polluter pays principle is a good approach in this case too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u79	I am sorry to say this, but I have the impression that you are repeating the way things are now arranged and how it is proposed. What matters to me is what really happens now. That is that landlords must behave differently, which you want to achieve by making them pay money. Moreover, if you do not receive an advantage, this is also a financial penalty. That is the criminal definition of criminal law, deliberate suffering in order to change behaviour. That's why I don't think this is appropriate here. This is a way of collecting income outside of criminal law. That is what I object to. That is also why I asked you to explain this and to reflect on that measure. I believe that this is an incorrect use of criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u80	Mr. Schouwenaar, next time, I'd love to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u81	Apologies, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u82	In the direction of Mr Schouwenaar, I would nevertheless like to try to clarify this possible misunderstanding. The differentiated charging scheme is not a form of punitive sanction. The question of whether there is a punitive sanction arises in the context of government enforcement of standards that are violated. However, the distinction is made between punitive sanctions aimed at inflicting harm on the offender and repairable sanctions aimed at remedying the infringement. The latter is therefore the case here. So there is no question of government enforcement of violated standards. The assessment of, for example, the rental price by the Rent Committee takes place through the private law context, in which the parties submit their mutual dispute to the Rent Committee. The government is not a party to this than in criminal law or administrative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u83	Mr. President, through you. I'm gonna try it in another language. I know that's not appreciated on the other side, but I'll do it anyway: caput non est lex.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u84	I see the chairman's okay with it, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u85	Caput non est lex, gorgeous!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u86	Another part of Mr Schouwenaar's question was about the level of the landlord's contribution. In my view, this is a logical and acceptable division. The amount that landlords are going to pay is relatively small. With a landlord of 100 properties it is on average €0.45 per house per month. The actual rate has yet to be determined but it is in that order of magnitude. In the design of the contribution, it was chosen to be in line with the existing data resulting from the declaration of the landlord's levy. This is also a practical way of dealing with it, because it reduces implementation costs. In addition, the bill contains a provision that allows higher fees to be imposed on landlords who are more often unsuccessful, as has just been discussed. Small landlords with less than 50 properties also do not pay a rental charge. So for that reason, reducing administrative burdens, they also don't pay fees, which is huge in the implementation costs for the Rent Commission and for the Tax Administration. So that's the reason for doing this. I come now to Mrs De Vries' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u87	Maybe it's about the same thing, and then maybe we'll be done very soon. You say that the reason why this is done is that it is easier and safer and that you know that you have income. However, my question was whether it is fair to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u88	That's right, that's exactly the point I'm coming up with. I understand, however, that Mrs De Vries says that in some cases it cannot feel reasonable. We imagine a landlord with a limited number of homes, namely 45, so close to the border but just below. A landlord we all say doesn't follow the rules at all and that you might label as a house milker, which is indeed an annoying word. On the other hand, there are of course also landlords with less than 50 homes that follow all the rules. So it also doesn't feel entirely reasonable when you say: we punish them all. Once again, the reason for this, although I understand Mrs De Vries' feeling, is implementationally in line with the landlord's tax on more than 50 homes. If there are house milkers, it is even more important that these tenants make the hallway to the Rent Committee as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u89	Very briefly. We keep track of everything. The Rent Commission keeps track of how many cases she has and where they come from. If this relationship really turns out to be a dead end, is the Minister prepared to look at it, as she said in the review of the Housing Act, and see if it is still reasonable and fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u90	I think it is wise to include these issues in the evaluation. So I'm willing to do that. Finally, as far as financing is concerned, Mrs De Vries asked how I would like to prevent the landlord's contribution from rising too quickly. The budget of the Rent Committee will take account of the rental contribution and a state contribution each year. This is part of the BZK budget, which is of course determined by the Second and First Chambers. This means that the decision on the distribution between the State contribution and the landlord's contribution is also determined through that budget and its approval. Mr. Chairman. Then the governance of the Rent Committee. Mr Schouwenaar had a question about the method of appointment. It's like this. The Implementing Act already provides that the members of tenant and landlord's organisations must be equally represented on the Committee and on the Advisory Board in order to avoid the emergence of majority holdings. The bill doesn't change that. However, in the legislative proposal, the competence of the umbrella organisations to nominate members and members of the board of directors for appointment lapses. Instead, the Rent Committee will open up vacancies and recruit candidates on the basis of profiles and submit them for appointment. In this way, the Rent Commission will be able to better recruit and select on the basis of quality and suitability. The Rent Committee will check with the umbrella organisations prior to the nomination of a member of the assembly whether there would be insurmountable objections to the appointment. Mr Lintmeijer's question was about the independence of the Rent Commission in relation to the co-payment of the landlords. That is a question that is a bit between funding and governance. Anyway... I understand the question very well, but I do not think that the independence of the Rent Committee is at stake, because it also contains checks and balances. The Rent Committee as such is an independent administrative body. It operates independently of government and other stakeholders. And there is a board of advice that the stakeholders are part of, but that board of advice advises and has no decision-making power. I think that's how it's secured to a sufficient degree. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a number of questions and answers under the heading "other." First of all, a question from Mr Van Hattem of the PVV on the approach of house milkers in relation to automatic access to the Rent Committee. The discussions with municipalities and with various parties on the broad approach of house milkers are now much in line. There are several instruments for dealing with all these undesirable behaviours in the rental sector. This includes the automatic access to the Rent Committee. It's part of the conversations being held. I have already said in the House of Representatives that I will share the results of these talks with the Chamber. That will happen before the summer. I am, of course, willing to share that with the First Chamber. Mr Van Hattem also asked whether there were performance agreements regarding rental prices for status holders. To begin with, I do not have an overview of all performance agreements between municipalities and housing corporations that exist in the Netherlands. As far as I know, the performance agreements do not make separate agreements on rent reductions for status holders, but are always more general agreements on rent reductions for vulnerable groups or households. I have also indicated in the reply that the Rent Committee cannot comment on a difference in rent between neighbors. The Rent Committee can only check per house whether the rental price or the rent increase meets the legal limits. There can and are often good reasons for differences between rental prices and residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u91	My question was not so much about differences between neighbors, but about differences in the policy of housing corporations. If the policy gives rise to differences in rent, can the committee look at it and possibly take measures or apply rent reductions? Could the Rent Commission do something about this in the context of the Tenants' Consensus Act? That was actually the thrust of my question. It wasn't so much about the difference between neighbors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u92	My impression was that Mr Van Hattem was also concerned with different rental prices between people living in the same block. That situation may indeed arise. I pointed out that performance agreements sometimes deal with certain vulnerable groups. There may also be other reasons for this, but the Rent Committee confines itself to checking per house whether the rental price or the rent increase meets the legal limits. If Mr Van Hattem wants more information on the precise performance agreements, he can do so. But that doesn't affect the jurisdiction of the Rent Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u93	It is mainly a question of whether certain policies are made by a corporation that has an impact on rental prices. How does that work? There is now a job extension option for the Rent Committee. This concerns products and services supplied. Can such policy changes also be part of this? That was actually one of my questions that came up in that. I always find it unclear to what extent a limit is drawn there whether or not it can be covered by products or services.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u94	I'd like to say the following. The housing corporations can make performance agreements with municipalities. Of course, most municipalities do. Within these arrangements, housing corporations will eventually differentiate in their allocation and rental policies. That's okay, too. If the Rent Commission comes into contact with such a specific situation, it will, of course, take that into account. So that seems to me to be just a natural part of the corridor to the Rent Committee. Mr Van Hattem also asked whether tenants, like landlords, could gain insight into the valuation characteristics that the municipality has used for the WZ. A tenant can, like a landlord, have access to the so-called valuation report of his property. This can in many cases be consulted via MyGovernment or via the municipal website. Tenants can consult that too. You can just log in with your DigiD. A valuation report provides an insight into the way in which the WMD value has been valued. Mr. Chairman. Finally, two questions from Mrs Bikker. The first question was a fairly general question, namely whether the bill contributes to the emancipation of tenants. In my view, the bill contributes to clarifying tasks and responsibilities, including between the tenant and the landlord. One could argue that in a sense that has an emancipatory effect for both parties. In addition, the tenant and the landlord will receive more opportunities from the Rent Committee during the procedure they enter into. You could say that it also has an emancipatory effect. For example, I would like to mention the option of choosing mediation rather than a ruling or simply a research report. I believe that this does indeed contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u95	That question about emancipation was in a context, especially for the tenants who are vulnerable. I saw them in the free sector, too. Previously, the housing market always talked about vulnerable tenants in social rents, but now we see that the middle class and the bottom of the middle class find a home most difficult. I hope that during the time that this bill comes into force, the Minister will really get an idea of whether those vulnerable groups will also find their way to the Rent Committee. That's where I care. That's what this question was about. Furthermore, I share everything the Minister said about what is emancipating on this point, but perhaps the Minister can comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u96	So an important part of the proposal, which looks at this test on initial rental prices for the first six months, really adds something for the very group that Mrs Bikker is describing. She speaks of a vulnerable group, but I do not know whether we should use that term. We may often think of other people when we are talking about a vulnerable group, but the people who depend on middle-rent and because of the market conditions have to deal with huge price increases, or with starting rents that you may wonder if they are reasonable, now have the opportunity to raise this with the Rent Committee. This may seem to me to be an important addition to the range of instruments at their disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u97	Thank you for that answer. All true. The instruments are there, but does that reach the people? That is my question. How does the Minister get that picture? In the end, that is why we are discussing this law here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u98	Yes. This is also reflected in Mrs Bikker's last question, namely how we know whether we will reach the tenants. It's hard to judge that from this position. That is why my appeal to the municipalities are very good examples; I mentioned the rental teams to pay close attention and to do a lot about it. I am thinking of providing general information on the website of the municipalities. They need to keep their finger on the wrist so that they know if the instruments are actually being used. I agree with Mrs Bikker. We must do all we can to achieve this in all kinds of ways, through the Rent Committee itself, through the municipalities, through BZK information and through target groups policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u99	That effort is going to be made. The minister puts the ball right with the municipalities, but how did the minister at the end, if all that happened, see if it works?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u100	The answer is, of course, that I have already said in the direction of Mrs De Vries and others that we need to evaluate the whole at some point and then see if it works well enough. Then we must also include this question and pay attention to it. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u101	Thank you. In doing so, we have reached the second term of office. I note that Mr Van Hattem is refusing to speak. I call Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u102	Mr. Chairman. I would like to touch briefly on five points. All five points are about questions we have already asked, but we find the Minister's answer disappointing. In fact, she has repeated in very clear terms the answer she has given in the written consultation and that we did not find it satisfactory at the time either. On the issue of not extending the scope of the Rent Committee, at least to its full extent, to the liberalised sector, I hear only evasive answers. Let me fly it in from another side one more time. If it is true that the landlords in the free sector are also so keen to agree that their tenants can go one-sidedly to the Rent Commission, then what are they against if we now legislate? I don't understand. I do not understand why the Minister is so persuasive in the attitude that the liberalised rental sector in particular could not be included in this dispute committee. Then about the six-month term. The Minister did not answer my question as to why, if it is contrary to the law that a much higher rent is charged than is permitted under the housing valuation system, that illegal condition is legalized after six months. Why should it no longer be possible to reverse the over-rent, with or without retroactive effect? The Minister adds as an argument that in the long term there should also be security for the landlord. In fact, the Minister says: you must quickly challenge that illegally high rent, otherwise it will not give sufficient certainty to the landlord that he cannot sustain his far too high rent. Surely it can't be true that the Minister really means this? We simply do not agree on the complaints about maintenance. It is a pity that the Committee on Disputes, which the Minister also wants to raise by law as a legal dispute committee, should not rule on the most common complaints. Judgments on the relationship between the rent and maintenance do not lead to recovery of late maintenance, which is an experience fact. In some cases, yes, but not in many cases. Then the contribution to the Rent Committee. The Minister is now saying a little more openly than in the written reply that the limit of 50 homes for the landlord must be easy from that point on, since this also applies to the landlord's tax. At the landlord's tax we were also opposed to the small landlords being exempted. Now that has been raised and now it is going to be the norm, but even now the small landlords are being exempted. That is a bit contrary to the fact that Mr Schouwenaar has just made, namely that at this point in time only 36% of the disputes before the Rent Committee come from the corporations. So 36% of the complaints come from that angle. They must immediately pay the Rent Commission, for 95%, because of the scheme for landlords who operate more than 50 homes, but we do not think that this is fair. It has to go one way or the other. Either the other landlords should also contribute, and then the law must be changed, or the Minister indicates that this is such a technical task that it does not pay, but then we have to go back to the old situation that it comes from the general funds. The current injustice has not sufficiently motivated the Minister in the view of my group to accept it. Finally, something about the limitation of the middle rents. As the Minister rightly pointed out, this is a matter other than whether the free sector should also be included in the Rent Committee. That is another question, namely whether there should also be standards for the middle rents, that part of the free sector, to set the maximum rents there if necessary. The Minister now says more clearly that she does not want to do so in general, but if there is a request from the municipality after consultation or consultation, I have not understood that correctly with interested parties, she can consider making that possible; I assume to make it legally possible. That "in consultation with interested parties" worries me a little, looking at the landlords with homes in the free sector. Take Amsterdam, for example. If a house of €800 is released there, it will now enter the market for €1,200 or €1,400.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u103	Do you think about your time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u104	This is my final remark. It makes sense for the landlords to do that. They'd be running a bad operation if they didn't. They're not gonna agree with the city that they don't do that anymore. The landlords certainly do not agree if the municipality so requests. How does the Minister intend to deal with that? Is it going to arrange within a few months for municipalities to be able to submit these requests, and is it going to come up with a further provision in the mid-term draft law that we can expect this year? Or is this more of a generality that is being pushed very long? We do not agree with that, given the urgency of the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u105	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u106	Thank you, Mr President. The Green Left spokesperson had to leave this Chamber prematurely and asked me to make my point on his behalf. I asked the Minister what possibilities she saw to allow access to the Rent Commission for tenants in the liberalised sector, other than the limited possibilities they already have. Can I explain the Minister's answer in such a way that in fact she sees only two possibilities, either on a voluntary basis, following the agreements made in the Middle Rental Cooperation Table, or on the basis of legislation? The Minister said that he was pleased with the results of the Middle Rental Cooperation Table, in which the trade associations undertook to urge the landlords affiliated with them to adapt their rental contracts in such a way that their tenants could go to the Rent Committee in the same way as tenants in the social sector. The Minister says that she wants to give this voluntary commitment room. She's taking a year to do that. In the meantime, she keeps her finger on the wrist, because she regularly sits at the table with parties. After a year, she wants to assess to what extent it has led to the desired results, again on the basis of an evaluation. The Minister also indicated to Mr Pijlman that she wanted to involve all groups of tenants in this evaluation. I assume that it is not just a question of whether it is going to work for tenants who are members of the industry organisations with which the minister sits at the table, but also for tenants who fall into a somewhat different category. The word "house milker" came by here several times this afternoon. On the basis of this evaluation, the Minister would then like to assess whether legislation is necessary. After this year, I think there are only two possibilities. It's not necessary because it's happening. Or it's necessary, because it's not happening to a sufficient degree. Can my group consider the Minister's reply as an undertaking that, if it proves necessary, I will come back to that in a moment because the results are insufficient, they will indeed come up with legislation? My last question is about that need. When does the Minister think it's necessary? When will the Minister be satisfied? What's the ambition? Should 100% of the landlords have included in the contract that they offer the possibility for their tenants to go to the Rent Committee? Or is the Minister satisfied with 80% or 50%? What if it turns out that all the landlords belonging to industry organisations have kept the agreement made at the Cooperation Table, but that the landlords who do not comply with it are just the group we are concerned about? On this point, I would like some clarification, so that we do not have an evaluation here in a year's time and conclude that the objectives that should have been achieved after a year have not been clearly defined in advance. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u107	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I give the floor to Mr Schouwenaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the Minister's answers. On one point, she used the term 'polluter pays'. I would like to point out that it is a task of the First Chamber to combat pollution. I cannot help but see it as a piece of legal pollution that punishments are being handed out outside the criminal justice system. Why? Because the safeguards provided by criminal law are therefore bypassed by the defendant. Unfortunately, I do not think that point is correct. The second point is that the Minister has said once again that the areas of the Complaints Commission, the Rent Commission and the Court of Justice are defined and are mutually exclusive. Thank you very much for that: that creates a lot of clarity. With my third point, I shall come back to what has already been said. This is about the appointment of the members of parliament. On this point, too, the Minister explained how it was arranged. We know that. What I was concerned about was that the Minister is monitoring that there is an equal representation of the interests of tenants and of the interests of landlords. The wording also indicates that. This can only be done at the expense of impartiality. So be it. I think it's a missed opportunity. I believe that parties benefit more from three impartial people than just an impartial chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u109	Thank you, Mr. Schouwenaar. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her clear answer. Once again, it has become clear what the Minister intends to do. It is a good thing that the Minister continues to discuss with the landlords, precisely in order to give shape to an effective form of rent protection. It is important, therefore, that this year the parties deliver on what they now promise. I really want to ask the Minister to keep his finger on the pulse during that process, so that we do not have to go to the Council of State in a year's time with all the legislation that has yet to be prepared, but that the Minister really has that ready when she feels: this is not going well. I ask her to work closely with the municipalities where the need is greatest. I agree with the remarks made by Mrs Vlietstra on behalf of the Labour Party. I hope the Minister will reply in the affirmative. My concern is in this sector, particularly in the field of cowboys. Let me use a less parliamentary word for that, excuse me. There is a whole sector of willing landlords, but there are also a few others in between. Does the Minister deal with them enough now? I hope that in a year's time she will be able to make that very clear. The second point concerns the tenants. The Minister says that it is a matter of waiting to see whether we are actually reaching the people for whom we are doing this enlargement. At the end of the answer to my general question, she mentioned the five-year period as the moment when we see it. I did some research, but here in The Hague in 2015 93% of the 500 recordings of the rental team were too high for rent. Then we really have a very serious problem to deal with. If we then offer rent protection, we really must offer it to the people who need it. The report of the Scientific Council for Government Policy also shows very clearly that not everyone we expect to save himself can actually save himself. I would like to ask the Minister to have an interim view of this. It is a shame that we will have to conclude that in five years' time. Focus on practice; I would like to call on the Minister to do so. Then I have one more point for the long term. I have indicated that the overheating of the housing market in the Netherlands actually happens every time at the time of the boom. The Minister has promised to agree with an emergency button in local situations when municipalities ask for it. I would also ask the Minister to consider in the review in five years' time whether our legislation is stable for the situations of overheating when the economy is running at full speed, or whether we need other measures. Then the Minister now has a plan of action so far so good, but in five years' time we could reasonably see if this is indeed the customization that is needed. I'd like to hear the Minister on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u111	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the clear answer. Secondly, I would like to mention a few points. The first concerns the provision of information, which has also been discussed in the first instance. The Minister has promised that the Rent Committee itself will take the initiative in this. She also said that the department has done everything necessary. I'm assuming I don't know, I'm asking the Minister that the corporations also include the entire complaint law, including Rent Committee and the court procedure, for their tenants standard now everything changes. Secondly, thank you for the commitment that the Minister is making to strengthen access to the Rent Committee. She wants to give the field a chance. You say, 'I am very pleased with what Van Gijzel said at his table; I am giving them a year to settle matters first.' I agree with you. Law and regulation lasts at least as long. Why would you do that if the sector is offering this on its own? However, we all need a good evaluation here. Did this work now? Has that promise been fulfilled? Then we can talk about it in a year. The final point is the VNG. I'm gonna finish with what I started at first. The coverage is a little less unambiguous than the Minister says. By the way, I am focusing on the media; you have been there. You say about the VNG: the signature...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u113	Do you think about your time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u114	Yes. The signature's not underneath it, but the involvement is no less. The VNG is making some other noises. I would like us to be informed about how the municipal involvement, which is essential to get the housing market moving, is being realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u115	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I was afraid you wouldn't make it in a minute, and you were right. I give the floor to Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, it welcomes the commitment that the 2015 review of the Housing Act also looks at all the ad hoc measures taken in recent years to improve the housing market, to see if all this is still appropriate at this time and for the problems that arise. That could cover a lot of things. They will undoubtedly pass by, so that is what we are waiting for. We believe that this is a good thing, better than dealing with ad hoc matters now. We discussed the contribution to the Rent Committee: who pays what? The law, and in particular the explanatory statement, states that the State contribution does not constitute a structural funding basis, because in the past it has often been found that a reprioritisation of the budget is necessary to ensure that you make that money available. Now it's about fifty-fifty: on the one hand the fee and the landlord's tax and on the other hand the Empire. With that first sentence in mind, I can imagine a little bit that there might be a danger that this fifty-fifty will not provide certainty for the future, even when I hear the Minister. She says: look at the budget in the future, then you know what the Empire is paying and then you know about the landlord's tax. Until 2021, it remains approximately fifty-fifty according to the explanatory memorandum. I would like to hear from the Minister whether we can continue to expect this in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u117	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. The Minister needs a suspension. I'm suspending the meeting until 5:10. That's six minutes, so you can barely leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u118	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will answer the questions in the order in which they were set in the second term. Perhaps I should note that Mr Köhler and I are probably not going to agree entirely today, however much I would like to do, because he was so disappointed by my reply. I would also like to answer his questions in substance during this period, but he cannot expect me to have a different understanding between the first and the second term. His first question was on the liberalised contracts. He says he wants to have a full review of that, and I say that we are not heading for it now, because it would actually aim to abolish the liberalization system as such. We have in the Netherlands a system of regulation and non-regulation. This proposal does not look forward to doing anything about it. Changing the liberalization regime would be a whole change of system. I can imagine that the SP is in favour of this, but we did not choose to do so. We opt for regulated, unregulated and contractual freedom in the liberalised segment. Then the six-month period within which the initial rental price can be verified. Mr Köhler said that after those six months too high rents are in fact whitened. I don't see it that way. I think that the scheme is right to see that there is sufficient time for tenants who have doubts, perhaps not yet when signing the contract, but at least when they have involved their home. Then tenants have six months to ask themselves whether the initial rental price is not too high and to go to the Rent Commission in those six months to check that. I think that's a reasonable deadline. I hope that, as far as it is necessary and too high an initial rent is requested, tenants will use it. Although Mr Köhler disagrees with me, an extension of that time would indeed lead to an unreasonable long period in which landlords are in uncertainty as to whether the agreed rental price will continue to apply. I wouldn't consider that reasonable, so I think six months is a reasonable period. Another question from Mr Köhler was about financing, which, in his view, amounts to a disproportionate proportion of housing corporations. They own an important part of the rentals, but not everything. They contribute to the costs because of the choice of the system, the link to the landlord's tax. I think that the housing corporations, such important landlords in the Netherlands, have a great interest in ensuring that there is a good and accessible Rent Commission and that it is therefore not unreasonable to ask them to do so. Other landlords with more than 50 homes also contribute. With regard to his question on the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u120	I have a brief interruption about the contribution collected from the housing corporations. I also heard Mr Köhler clearly ask that question; perhaps I will take a moment in his interruption. The point was that the housing corporations are not allowed to make a profit, so in the end these costs are returned to the tenant. I also mentioned it in the first term. Does the Minister have a stick behind the door to prevent the tenant from ultimately being put at a disadvantage by passing on those costs to the tenant? Or are there any other ways to prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u121	We also have the agreement in the Netherlands about the limited possibilities to increase the rent. Housing corporations can make a rent increase, but there are limits to that. That's, I think, okay. Housing corporations in general are indeed not profit-making. We do expect them to be financially healthy. We expect them to invest in new construction. We expect them to be sustainable. And we expect them to handle affordable rents. In my view, this is quite possible overall. There can of course be individual housing corporations where this is more difficult. But the tenants are always protected, because the rental prices in the Netherlands can never just take a huge flight. So even in these cases, taking into account the whole of property ownership, it is really about very limited amounts. They will therefore not lead to rent increases. But I think the tenants are generally sufficiently protected, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u122	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u123	Tenants are protected by limited rent increases, but it is still about rent increases. Let's add it all together. I also just quoted the EUR 108 billion that it is going to cost to make all social housing more sustainable. Those costs are all going to be passed on. Eventually, the rent will only rise instead of falling, and to that latter a lot of tenants actually need more. Does the Minister see that this factor also needs to be taken into account? And are there any possibilities for the housing corporations to finance this in a different way than by finally putting the ball back with the tenant?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u124	I sometimes have these debates in the Lower House. Then I say that it is not wise to highlight one measure there and to say that it costs a lot of money and so it will be passed on to the tenants. There are costs and there are revenues. Sustainability, for example, involves costs; of course. We also expect this to be sustainable and to be done in a sensible way. But there are also revenues, because sustainability means that energy bills go down. It is therefore an initial investment that will be paid out again in the long term. The sustainability can also lead to a higher enjoyment of living for the people in the home. So there are pluses and there are loves, and I think we should always look at the whole thing, not just one measure or one amount of money. The spokesperson of the Labour Party and of the SP asked what would be against legislation. The landlords therefore want to arrange access to the Rent Commission on a voluntary basis. Some parties here I hear say: well, if they do want to do so, we better lay it down in the law. However, I am actually turning that around: I think it is appropriate for a self-employed, free sector to be the first to do so. That is what has been said, and I would also like to give the sector the opportunity to resolve this through self-regulation in the free sector. Then I think it is important, as Mrs Bikker and others stressed, that we are monitoring whether this is happening and whether it is happening in such a way that the tenants will benefit from it. I certainly will. I sit very regularly with the parties at the table and I will, of course, ask them how they are going to proceed with this plan and how it is going to work. I think that this is a really better way of dealing with this issue than it is at present. I have confidence in that, but keeping a finger on the wrist, in order to stay with Mrs Bikker's words, is, of course, sensible, and I will continue to do so. I am actually still in the process of answering Mr Köhler's questions, but I note that at the same time I have already answered a number of questions from the other members of the First Chamber. I come to the maintenance deficiencies and the position of the Rent Committee. Mr Köhler regretted that the Rent Committee could not enforce it. No, I didn't. The Rent Committee can reduce the rent; the Rent Committee can give a ruling on that. The Rent Commission cannot force a landlord to take action on the issue of maintenance. But I think that also fits the character of the Rent Committee. It is an out-of-court dispute. Other measures, for example in the sphere of coercion when it comes to maintenance, fit better with the courts. So this is a choice. I understand that Mr Köhler and I will continue to disagree, but this is the explanation I would like to give.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u125	Mr. Van Hattem wants to go into this again, but I just said "finally." This is about the same point, so I think we're gonna let this go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u126	It is about another point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u127	I'm looking at the clock. Very briefly, then, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u128	Yes, very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I will come back to the point I just mentioned, namely those experiments that are used as a policy by a housing corporation or a landlord. The Minister now says that the Rent Committee can also decide to reduce the rent. Does the Minister really see it as an opportunity for rents to be reduced if there is a social experiment, which is a landlord's policy? Is there therefore the possibility to lower rents for other residents?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u129	Mr Van Hattem is now asking me about something where he does not see a role for the Rent Committee. I think he's asking if the housing corporation offers that space. Do I understand the question that well? Or does he ask if the Rent Commission can do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u130	No, it's about whether the Rent Committee can impose it on the housing corporations if a tenant with a complaint about such a policy experiment goes to the Rent Committee. Is there therefore the possibility to reduce the rents if tenants are bothered by such social experiments and thus enjoy less residential enjoyment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u131	I thought I had already given an answer to that in the first term. The answer to that is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u132	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u133	Mr. Van Hattem, the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u134	Yes, Mr President, but still one short follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u135	No, I told you that you could ask one short question, and I really want to give the Minister the opportunity to finish her answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u136	Mr President, thank you. Mrs Vlietstra, who also spoke on behalf of Mr Lintmeijer van GroenLinks, asked about these goals and how we are going to measure them. As I said earlier, keep the finger on the wrist. I said that I wanted to give the sector the room to fill this out myself. I have also said that this is the hand-out I would like to take towards Mrs Vlietstra that I am not ruling anything out. So I'm assuming it's gonna work out, and I'm assuming the sector fills this out itself. If that is not the case in a year's time, I will find out soon enough. I do not rule out that we would like to organise things differently by then, but I do not assume that this is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u137	One interruption, Mrs. Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u138	I put the question a little more clearly. We're talking about "need" and "results." I asked the Minister when she felt it was necessary. Is it satisfied if 80% of them stick to it, is it not satisfied if 100% of them stick to it? What should have been achieved in that year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u139	Well, this is in itself a good question and also a fair question. What do I expect? Parties have said, at the table with all those other parties in discussing our joint housing agenda: we want to do this, for our supporters and for our industry. I will, of course, ask those parties if they have succeeded. Of course they are not committed to any individual landlord, but it is my test that to a sufficient extent in their own constituency this possibility is indeed offered on a voluntary basis, and that I ask them in the meantime in the conversations: is this going in the right direction and can we in a year's time see that you have just done so? Of course, I will also be able to report to the Chambers on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u140	I see that you want to respond to this, Mrs Vlietstra, but I said one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u141	Mr President, I do not think that Mr Schouwenaar has asked a question anymore, but I do believe that he continues to look at the issue of the legal explanation differently than I do. I am not going to repeat the whole passage again, but I would really like to emphasise that there is no question of penalties outside criminal law. I therefore appreciate his concern about the legal interpretation and reasoning, but I hope he will reconsider what I said in the first period. Mrs Bikker, quite rightly, focused on the practice. She said we shouldn't wait five years for the whole review of the law to start acting after that. No, we do need to see how things are going in practice. We have organized this in a special way in the Netherlands around housing, with many responsible parties, being parties other than the responsible minister in The Hague. I am therefore highly dependent on how municipalities and provinces deal with it and also how market players, housing corporations and so on deal with it. But that, I think, makes it feasible in practice too, because local conditions can be so different. But the art is to be in much conversation in the different regions and to be able to deliver really customized work. On a regular basis, on the basis of that Housing Agenda, I will report to the House of Representatives. And, of course, I am always prepared to report on this. Finally, Mrs Bikker rightly called for attention to be paid to the system as such. Is the system based on difficult situations such as the current overheating? In fact, I would like to include this in the context of the problems we are seeing today: a recession. We have seen that the housing market has proved to be an extremely cyclically sensitive sector. The construction of houses is also very cyclically sensitive. We also see, in part, that there is overdue maintenance, that the construction is completely flat, that there are now too few people, that people are not trained for the profession. That is, of course, also a barrier in the market at the moment. I would therefore like to judge it both ways. Independent experts are already working on it. For example De Nederlandsche Bank looks very strongly at the housing market. So I think it is a very appropriate point from Mrs Bikker and I would say: let us then involve the overheating and the recession.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u142	Mrs. Bikker, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u143	Did I understand the Minister's commitment to coming back to the evaluation of this bill at that point, which was just as beautiful in its breadth, both overheating and recession? Because that was my question. And my other question, Mr President, in this one interruption, is actually looking at the question she has previously answered towards Mrs Vlietstra. I also asked a question about this: how do we ensure that what I have called the cowboys among the landlords are not the laughing third in the fine discussion that the minister rightly conducts? Of course, that would be very unfortunate. Unfortunately, these are two points, Mr President, but they are in one interruption, if you are still following them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u144	In one interruption, very good! We can of course involve the overheating and the entire analysis of the housing market in relation to the economy in the evaluation, but I have agreed with the House of Representatives to consider whether what De Nederlandsche Bank is currently investigating adequately meets the questions we are asking each other here or that perhaps more research is needed. I would inform the House of Representatives about this, so I think it would be wise to involve the House of Lords immediately. So that's gonna happen one way or the other. About the cowboys two things. The cowboys, but in a negative sense, are the ones who really abuse the circumstances. If it's illegal, it's illegal, and then of course it has to be dealt with anyway. So if there's a problem with the market right now, I'd like to talk to local authorities about that emergency button. This is a measure which will indeed have to be regulated in legislation. This can be done in the Housing Act or the Regional Planning Act, but it must be done in the law. For that, I want to start off with the municipalities that now think that they need something like this, to really put it in the picture, because often there are opportunities that can be used that do not require a legislative change. But I have promised, also in the House of Representatives, that on the basis of these discussions I will not rule out the possibility that I will come up with legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u145	One interruption, Mr. Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u146	I thought this was the time when the Minister would be able to answer my question at what time she is going to do what she has just outlined, so that consultation with these municipalities and submit any necessary legislative changes to Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u147	The consultation with the municipalities or with the regions is already under way, but I have now said to those municipalities that have already suggested that they would like to take advantage of such a possibility: come up with a proposal that we can discuss with each other. It is indeed the intention, I say to Mr Köhler, that this proposal is not a one-sided proposal from the municipalities, but a proposal which has been discussed, for example, at the cooperation table of the municipalities concerned or region, involving all the other parties needed to secure the housing market. In the end, there are a lot of interests in the housing market. Municipalities can give a certain meaning. That is also good, because they make the choices for example for the performance agreements they make with housing corporations, they make choices about their land issues and they make choices in a certain balance that they find appropriate to their municipality. But we also want the market to remain active. At the beginning of this debate, I also outlined that this is about the whole housing market, i.e. social, middle-rental and buying across the board. Of course, that shouldn't go anywhere, because that doesn't help us. So it has to stay going. But it is an invitation to municipalities to come forward with concrete proposals on the basis of which I can assess how we can implement that emergency button. My door's open, so they can come up with their proposals tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. Mr Pijlman had a few more questions. On information: I did mention the Rent Committee itself, I mentioned the Ministry, but that also applies to housing corporations, of course. I also mentioned the complaints authorities. So, yes, that's part of it. I think I've already answered the question about the evaluation and the field. As far as the VNG is concerned, I actually understand that Mr Pijlman says that he did not find the coverage as unambiguous as the Minister's answer now. But take it from me: the agreement with the VNG is to work together. The VNG has said that we are fully involved in the development of the housing agenda. They have given the reason for the formation of lectures. I respect that; that is what I said to the VNG. All the reports that have been made about this have caused a bit of noise on the line, but the bottomline and the only argument I have exchanged with the VNG, which I once again say I fully understand, is the formation of a college. VNG is an extremely important partner in this policy area. Mrs De Vries had questions about the contribution and the fifty-fifty distribution. I have just described this in the budget law.............................................................................................................................................................. As long as we don't think it's gonna be different, we're just gonna stick to the 50-50. Since it is governed by the budget law, the Court can always ensure that it is so, or deviate from it if it is desirable. Mr President, I hope that I have answered the remaining questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u148	Thank you. I'm gonna take a look around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-eerstekamer-5.u149	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I propose to vote on the bill next Tuesday.
