ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-26.u1	We have arrived at the examination of the legislative proposal 35000-XVII, Adoption of the budget statement of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation for 2019. I would like to welcome the Minister for Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-26.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-26.u3	Mr. Chairman. After the Netherlands has first been extradited to the power lovers of Brussels, who already dictate more than 50% of our legislation, the Dutch political elite is ready for another disastrous step. In order to reduce Dutch influence, this government takes foreign trade and development cooperation policies to global level, and enthusiastically rolls out the political agenda of the United Nations, the UN, to completely destroy the self-determination of the Dutch people. Citizens are misled by so-called "sustainable development goals." These are internationally known as "Sustainable Development Goals," abbreviated SDGs. These SDGs would have a better life for everyone on our planet, but especially for those who are lagging behind in Western prosperity. Therefore, the government, which does not undermine its amor for the UN, is passionately embracing the SDGs. It is therefore not surprising that Rutte III, Minister Kaag, has given the mandate to roll out the UN agenda. This minister was initially not a member of D66, but is up to the neck in the UN network. It can better embed the SDGs in the foreign trade and development cooperation policy, which is reflected in the policy paper Investing in perspective, which is imbued with these SDGs. The SDGs would be the tools for the global elite to fight hunger, poverty, inequality, illiteracy and so on. Our moral compass indicates that you can't oppose that. For example, billions of euros have been knocked out of our pockets under moral pressure for decades. And the result for the poor of the earth is to cry. They've only become poorer. And this while Oxfam reports that new sources of raw materials are being discovered and developed every day in Africa. If this huge source of income remained in Africa, there would be tens of billions of euros available to schools and hospitals, for example. The African Development Bank reports that over the last 30 years, Africa has lost 1.4 trillion dollars to illegal money flows. Then why, according to the African economist Dambisa Moyo, has there been 2.3 trillion dollars of development aid spent over the last 50 years, with Africa as the largest recipient? After all, Africa can have sufficient own resources. But what are we to do with the army of benefactors who are doing well to the development industry, an industry that is not only big business but also rolling out the left-wing agenda through the back door, and then undermining the rule of law? And all this funded with a bunch of taxpayers' money. All this is molded into a barely controlled network of NGOs holding hands and holding hands. This network is eager to break down the capitalist West. It dreams of the socialist welfare state where almost all people are equal and almost all people equally poor. Mr. Chairman. Today, at the borders of Europe, the cradle of Western civilization, there are billions of lucky seekers ready to storm Europe if they are not coddled by those silly gutters, and then to live out of it completely. The indoctrinated European population does not have to count on the support of its own national governments, not the European Union at all. They like to work together with the UN, which would like to give national governments a hand in their common goals. The UN has hatched a devilish plan called Global Approach to Migration and Mobility. In this context, there are four EU external dialogues, namely the Prague Process with Eastern Europe and Central Asia, the Khartoum Process with the Horn of Africa, the Budapest Process with Western Asia and the Rabat Process with various African countries. The Marrakesh Treaty is part of this. Mr. Chairman. Let these unstable regions now agree one-on-one with those countries where the government focuses on development cooperation, namely North Africa, West Africa-Sahel, the Horn of Africa and the Middle East. It is no coincidence that these regions are almost entirely Islamic. After all, the UN offices are packed with Islam cuddlers and anti-Semites. As long as these regions are Islamic, rolling out the SDGs in these regions is a disastrous task. Gender equality alone! If women have an inferior position somewhere, it is in the Islamic world. Mr. Chairman. While one of the UN's goals is to maintain international peace and security, they continue to feed the Palestinian conflict. For example, a separate organisation, UNRWA, has been set up to focus on more, more and more so-called Palestinian refugees, who are deliberately being maneuvered into a hopeless situation by their own Palestinian administration. This is how the Palestinian administration feeds its own pockets. Thus, Egyptian professor Ahmed Karima of Al-Azhar University indicated that Hamas counts no less than 1,200 millionaires among his leaders and middle managers. According to Palestinian minister Mohammed Dahlan, 1.3 billion dollars have disappeared since Abbas took office. Abbas, who himself has an estimated capital of $100 million. And the Palestinians themselves, they are fed with Jew hatred to achieve the ultimate goal: the destruction of the state of Israel, the only democratic country in the Middle East. The success of this little brave country is not granted to Israel and its inhabitants. After all, his existence confronts the Arab world with his own failures, every day. Americans are afraid of countries that stand their ground. The US President Trump is therefore completely done with UNRWA and has stopped contributing to this hate club. This hate club, which stores weapons in UNRWA buildings, this hate club of which a part of the staff including staff, their hatred of Jews and hymns on Nazi Germany spout on social media. But it doesn't seem to matter to the minister. She likes to jump into the financial gap of her former employer UNRWA and simply increases the Dutch contribution for her Palestinian comrades by 6 million euros extra, on top of the already existing budget of 13 million. And the Minister, he gets away with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-26.u4	Mr. Chairman. I have a tendency to stand up for the Minister for a moment, because I do not think that the linking of a political judgment is appropriate, and that, of course, should not be the case in this Chamber about what is happening in the world to almost personally formulated goals of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-26.u5	I agree with you, Mr. Lintmeijer. So I hope, Mrs Faber, that you want to contain your personal attacks a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-26.u6	Madam President. I would still like to respond to this. 'Cause it's facts I'm talking about. It's not just things. No, they're facts. Then I'd like to hear what's not right. But I don't hear that. All right, Chairman, I'll move on. As I said, the Minister is getting away with it, thanks to the anti-Israel network that is running at full speed. Of course it's subsidised. The taxpayer, stunned by horrific images of civil wars and malnourished children, is less and less willing to pay for corrupt governments who eagerly fill their pockets with Western currency and then let their own people die. Meanwhile, the indoctrination of climate madness is on the verge of full swing and the climate refugee is on stage to drag the gutmens into the climate and migration madness under moral pressure. A climate fund is therefore being set up within development cooperation. The total budget for this climate scourge amounts to almost EUR 0.5 billion in this budget. As if the African woman, who has to fight hard every day to survive with her children, is worried about CO. It is not the victim of climate, it is the victim of culture. Mr. Chairman. It is not known whether climate victims have already been killed. This is unlike jihad victims. In addition to the day-to-day increase in the number of jihad victims, the number of jihad victims is now more than twice as high as the total number of victims of Mao, Stalin and Hitler combined. It is therefore incomprehensible that this government is opening its borders to even more Islam, so even more jihad and even more jihad victims. The pro-Islamic and anti-Semitic UN completely ignores the fact that the lag of the Islamic world is mainly caused by culture. Culture strewn with Islam. Islam is putting people and their country at a disadvantage. Islam makes people passive, fatalistic. Poverty, inequality, underdevelopedness, it is all inshallah or the will of Allah. As long as these countries do not free themselves from the yoke of Islam, they will never find the strength to reach the level of the West. The truth is hard. Islam fails. Islam is unable to offer its supporters a humane life. The West can do so, but the Westerner is doomed to literally and figuratively bleed for his or her own success, at the hands of his or her own political elite. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Africa and the Middle East must put their own house in order. In many countries they sit literally and figuratively on a treasure trove of raw materials that hardly benefits their own population. Why should the Dutch taxpayer cough up billions of euros while according to the One Campaign interest organisation 1 trillion dollars disappear every year in a web of corruption and shady deals on natural resources? While one in five Dutch households is struggling to make ends meet, the total number of African dollar millionaires has doubled to 160,000 from 2000 to 2014, representing 660 billion dollars. This figure is expected to increase by 45% in 2024, some 234.000 people. As long as corrupt regimes lay a bomb under their own society, no form of help will help the poor of the earth. The global roll-out of the SDGs is a vulgar transfer of money from developed countries to developing countries, the price tag of which is estimated at $2,500 billion a year. The only result is that the ordinary men and the ordinary women all become equally poor and weak. A wholesome road! After all, you do not make the weak stronger by weakening the strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-26.u7	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mr Overbeek.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-26.u8	Mr. Chairman. A hard act to follow. Following this flood of accusations and suspicions which Mrs Faber has brought to the brink of applying Rule 94 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall come up with a completely different story, hopefully with a more humane image as a basis for that. Burkina Faso was unfortunately not here in 2011 by Secretary of State Knapen, but he was removed from the building in 2011 as a recipient of Dutch development aid. Nevertheless, this African country could be a model for what I want to talk about today. Until the 1990s it had a thriving, small-scale textile industry. Burkinian substances were wanted on all markets in West Africa. They could even compete with the fabrics of the famous Dutch company Vlisco from Helmond, which had acquired its advanced batik techniques in the nineteenth century in the Dutch East Indies, of course without respect for any intellectual property at that time. The Burkinian Government was about to modernise the textile industry when it was hit by a debt crisis. The IMF reported to help the Burkina Faso government, as it is called: in exchange for financial support, the government had to make structural adjustments and, among other things, blow off the modernisation of the textile industry. Finally, the main factory, Faso Fani, closed its doors in 2001 and raw cotton became the country's main export product: a textbook example of underdevelopment. Vlisco had no competition left and has dominated the African market ever since. On the internet photos of the pastor of the current minister, Minister Ploumen, rotate at fashion shows by Vlisco in Ghana and Nigeria: the minister shines with pride on this beautiful Dutch export success. In 2015 the IDFA showed the beautiful documentary entitled La Sirène de Faso Fani, by the Burkinian filmmaker Michel Zongo. This can still be viewed on the IDFA website. This small history illustrates precisely why the SP Group regrets that development cooperation is no longer an independent ministry, but is part of Foreign Trade, which, of course, belongs to the Ministry of Economic Affairs itself. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation is thus being sent on the road with an internal conflicting mission. I would like to hear from the Minister how she experiences this herself. In the explanatory memorandum to the 2019 budget, the general objectives of the policy are to reduce poverty and social inequality, promote sustainable inclusive growth worldwide and strengthen the international earning capacity of the Netherlands. Like other policy documents, the entire explanatory memorandum has been fully inspired by this latter objective. The justification seems to be that economic liberalisation creates a win-win situation, that investments by Dutch companies are good for the development process and that international free trade is positive for everyone. However, as we now know that milk is not necessarily good for everyone, so we have known for a long time that free trade in general favours the more developed country and harms the less developed country. There is no example in the history of the world economy of a country which has successfully developed into a post-industrial country on the basis of free trade; we know the opposite. The Netherlands has not grown by free trade, but by the monopoly of the United East India Company. England became the world's workshop by destroying the Indian textile industry with a hard hand. Germany and the United States passed England at the end of the nineteenth century by building their industry behind high tariff walls. From the 1950s onwards, Japan and South Korea successfully established themselves on the world market through a strategic industrial policy which focused on protection and state intervention. I'd like a response from the Minister. Free trade ideology condemns less developed countries to specialise in low value-added products and low spin-off products to other sectors. In the past, agriculture and mining were also low-value labour-intensive industries, whereas most of the value in international value chains is not used in production and assembly, but in research and development, on the one hand, and in marketing and financial services, on the other. The example of iPhone is well known: 20% of the final selling price covers material production costs, 5% labour costs, of which not more than 1,5% in production and assembly in China. Almost 15% is profit for suppliers, and Apple itself, without producing anything, collects 60% of the selling price of the iPhone as pure profit. Free trade, liberalisation and protection of intellectual property, combined with the suppression of Chinese production workers, maintain this distribution. This model does not contribute to inclusive growth, nor does it contribute to sustainable growth: there are few economic activities as polluting as the mass transport over long distances that this model requires. Does the Minister see the implications of the value chain perspective in the same way? The development of long global value chains, driven by outsourcing by multinationals, has also led to a decline in trade policy in terms of pure trade, and increasingly in terms of investment freedom, deregulation of capital markets, protection of intellectual property, and leadership in advanced technology. This whole so-called "new trading agenda" runs counter to what countries need for autocentric development: strategic industrial policy, a central role for the State, and access to the most modern technology. Countries such as India, Brazil, China, but also Mexico, Turkey, and Malaysia had become so strong together in the World Trade Organisation at the turn of the century that they could block the so-called "Doha Agenda', the negotiating agenda, when it appeared that the US, Japan and the European Union were not prepared to meet their interests, for example, in terms of abolishing agricultural protection. This agenda was then put at the heart of the new generation of "deep and broad free trade agreements," as it is called in the jargon, which in particular tries to negotiate bilaterally with countries such as Ukraine, Canada, and Vietnam. There are still a whole series of other countries on the way. In this way, the West has wanted to break up the resistance of the emerging countries in the WTO and to break them up. I'd like a response from the Minister. Gradually, China has become the main target in that process. China has gained its status as a poor developing country over a period of 40 years. Of the acclaimed global success in achieving the Millennium Development Goals, in particular the fight against absolute poverty, one billion people have been lifted out of absolute poverty over a period of 15 years, three-quarters of China alone, and that has not been achieved with liberalisation and free trade, but with a well-designed state-led development strategy. We now see that the immense success of its development model makes China the target of economic warfare by the West, the US first, but the EU follows at an appropriate distance. The accusations against China focus mainly on the fact that the strategic sectors are largely closed to foreign capital. And yes, like the US and Germany did in the nineteenth century and Japan in the post-war period, China only wants to open its economy to foreign competition as Chinese companies that can compete. Can the Minister share our view? China is also criticised for having a large trade surplus and partly responsible for the huge trade deficit of the United States. Well, there's a couple of comments that go with that. I'll give you two. Firstly, about 60% of Chinese exports come from foreign companies: in other words, companies such as Apple and Walmart cause an important part of the so-called US trade deficit with China. Second. The suggestion that China's development model is so terribly dependent on exports is simply wrong: China's trade surplus briefly reached a maximum of around 10% of gross domestic product (GDP) in 2006-2007, but by now it has fallen steadily, to even a small deficit over the first six months of 2018. Does that mean that large trade surpluses are not a problem? Yeah, of course I do. John Maynard Keynes, the leading liberal economist, suggested in the Bretton Woods negotiations in 1944 that countries with structural surpluses should be punished with high fines. And Nicholas Kaldor wrote in 1980 that countries with a high surplus of payments are a threat to the legitimacy of the free trade system, because they artificially slow down the growth of the world economy. Mr. Chairman. Why am I going into this so extensively? Well, it is not China, but it is Germany and the Netherlands that maintain irresponsible balance of payments surpluses, partly because of the lagging wage developments. In Germany, this surplus on the hand balance has been around 8% of GDP for years and 10% in the Netherlands. Bearing in mind the words of Keynes and Kaldor, my question is to the Foreign Trade Minister: what measures will it take to put an end to this unhealthy situation? How will it ensure that the Netherlands will import more, especially from developing countries? What is the Minister going to do to work towards a more balanced balance of trade? The Netherlands is one of the largest exporters of agricultural products, including to the Third World. This export has been largely subsidised by the European common agricultural policy and by cheap energy for greenhouse horticulture. What steps will the government take to put an end to this dumping policy, which makes it virtually impossible for farmers in Africa to compete in their own markets? We look forward to the Minister's answer to these questions. Finally, a brief factual question. Well over a year ago, we had a discussion in this Chamber about the government's intention to cancel the Dutch membership of UNIDO, the UN organisation for sustainable and inclusive industrial development. The Minister then withdrew that intention, including not to anticipate the reform of the entire UN development leg initiated by Secretary-General Guterres. Can the Minister give us a brief update on the state of play in this area? Is there any progress to report? Has cooperation between the Netherlands and UNIDO been beneficial for once? In the Minister's letter of 14 December on the geographical focus of development cooperation policy, we are pleased to note that the government intends to pursue a new broad development relationship with Burkina Faso. Is the Minister for Development and Cooperation prepared to say that it will examine in UNIDO context whether a re-launch of the Burkina Faso textile industry is feasible on a modern, sustainable basis? Or is the Foreign Trade Minister opposed to this because it would affect the international earning capacity of e.g. the Netherlands? We are eagerly looking forward to the answers of the two ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-26.u9	Thank you, Mr. Overbeek. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-26.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Minister for wanting to come to this Chamber to discuss a few points in relation to the budget. First of all, my group expressed its concern about the declining budget for development cooperation, expressed as a percentage of GNI in the budget of IHOS 2017 under Rutte II. This decreased in a number of steps towards the 0.5% and threatened to fall below it under unchanged policies. Fortunately, this Minister has re-launched the path towards the OECD standard of 0.7%. However, as far as my group is concerned, it is still very slow. If we read the multiannual estimates correctly, the planned intensifications of 1 billion for the next four years will not reach the 0.7% standard until 2022, i.e. after this cabinet period. This is also partly due to the repair of the cash drawer used in previous years to cover the costs of first-year reception of asylum seekers. The latter is allowed according to the international ODA agreements, but it is money that is actually spent in the Netherlands. If we go back towards 0.7% in 2022, it is still below the 0.8% rate we achieved at the start of the financial crisis and even further away from the 1% that my party stands for. Fourteen years later, fourteen years after the crisis, we are not yet back at the level before the financial crisis and this account is still partly among the poorest. What possibilities does the Minister see for meeting the 0.7% target at least faster? Even more important than the percentage is what we spend the money on. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also sees the achievement of the Global Goals for Sustainable Development in 2030 as an important guideline, contrary to what Mrs Faber just intended. Within it, our priorities are to support the poorest, to strengthen the position and self-reliance of women and children, to build a structural society and to combat the effects of climate change. With regard to aid to the poorest, we note that the ODA rate spent on it continues to fluctuate around 0.27%. Does the Minister consider this to be an acceptable percentage or does she agree with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that this is a very low figure? However, my group welcomes this Minister's commitment to women's rights, gender equality and sexual self-determination. Working on these rights is and will continue to be a permanent struggle that we like to fight with the cabinet. Our colleagues across the street have also put a focus on this and we are happy to endorse it. Mr. Chairman. Our group is convinced that the building of society for people can and must create the conditions to build a life in their own region. This requires a long-term agenda with balanced investment in the economy, work, strengthening the resilience of society and supporting instruments leading to the rule of law. However, in the area of structural society-building, we see that migration issues seem to be increasingly the focus of the agenda in the EU and in this cabinet. Are we asking the Minister to shift the prioritisation of countries from the poorest countries to countries that produce or allow refugees or migrants to pass through? The card in the letter at the end of last week, Mr Overbeek referred to the Theories of Change and the geographical focus of the OS policy seems to confirm that. And is it true that we have the impression that this means more cooperation with repressive regimes, which we should address, among other things, issues such as human rights, but which we are doing less and less? And what does this shift mean for our broad foreign and OS policy objectives anyway? An example of this is the EU Trust Fund for Africa. This fund is partly filled directly by the EU and partly by contributions from the Member States. In spring, over 2.5 billion of projects were in the pipeline, projects that had been approved, half of which were for migration management, government and conflict prevention. Can the Minister indicate what part of these projects is mainly concerned with matters such as border surveillance, blocking and discouraging migrants and more restrictive measures and what part is being spent on, say, more structural and positive social construction? And can the Minister indicate from what budgets are the 26 million euros that the Netherlands is putting directly into this fund? Does the cabinet attach ear tags to that money or is spending left to EU fund management? Does the Minister agree with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that the contribution to restrictive projects from ODA funds should be as low as possible and that as much as possible should be devoted to structural construction and sustainable economic development? Does the EU Trust Fund, which is almost as large as our own OS budget, meet this objective? Mr. Chairman. We do not have such a deep analysis, but we do have a number of questions about trade promotion. And I would like to congratulate Mr Overbeek on his profound analysis. We received a letter from the Minister on the International Strategic Consultation. The ISO should build on the objectives set out in the Investment Note in Perspective and develop public-private internationalisation strategies. It shall monitor programmes and ensure consistency between them. What strikes us in the portfolios identified before and by the ISO is that the concepts of sustainability and climate change are not or hardly present in them. My group is not a priori opposed to trade promotion and the involvement of Dutch industry in a lasting and reciprocal trade relationship. I would like to stress once again that this relationship must be reciprocal. Too often, however, we see that Dutch companies are also involved in fundamental abuses. I refer to deforestation in Brazil for the purposes of growing and trading soy, the so-called Corredor Norte, the lingering issue of oil pollution in the Niger delta, the adverse effects of rose cultivation in Ethiopia (drought and underpayment) and the sexual exploitation of promotional girls who have to sell beer. If we are sitting at the table, is such a public-private strategic consultation not also a forum where these and other negative effects of so-called trade promotion should be placed? And would themes relating to exploitation on the one hand and the adaptation of climate impacts on the other, not require a particular portfolio holder or an overarching programme manager? What can the Minister do about this in this context? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally. In recent weeks, my group has also drawn attention to the situation in Venezuela. I do that in this place, too. In the context of this debate, we would like to ask a few questions. We are not talking about a political analysis of the situation in that country, but about the consequences of the far-reaching economic and social disruption that is currently affecting people. Lack of work, food and medicine drives millions of people out of the country in search of pure survival. Countries such as Peru, Ecuador and Colombia now have their hands full of humane shelter. And also come within our Kingdom, it said in lesser numbers, refugees to especially Aruba and Curaçao. The Minister has now supported a number of millions of programmes in Colombia to accommodate people. We support that. But we are very concerned about how refugees from Venezuela are being received on the islands within the Kingdom. Among other things, on Curaçao in particular, Amnesty has produced extremely critical, if not destructive, reports, which include automatic detention, and that is why it is in appalling circumstances. Automatic detention is prohibited under Article 5 of the ECHR, which is in force throughout the Kingdom. My group is aware of the fact that, in particular, Curaçao has no asylum legislation, but believes that the Kingdom cannot evade its obligations. Does the Minister for Development, in consultation with her colleagues on Kingdom Affairs and Asylum, see possibilities for supporting the islands much more than is currently being done in respect of decent reception without the detention of Venezuelans, in order to put an end to a structurally undesirable situation? Does the Minister agree with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that Article 43 of the Statute in particular provides a guarantee of respect for human rights treaties? Does it recognise that at least the ECHR is at stake here? I would also like to refer to the motion to this effect tabled by my colleague Mr Strik on this matter this afternoon during the budget debate on Justice and Security. But we would also like to hear a response from this minister, given the importance of this matter. We look forward to the Minister's response, including on the other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-26.u11	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-26.u12	I shall suspend the meeting, pending the return of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Change.
