ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on criminals who are free to go to small airports in the Netherlands. I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. A total of six speakers have spoken. I propose that in the first period two interruptions be held in two. Everyone's got four minutes. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg, who has also requested this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If our own Marechaussee concerns a specific problem such as the vulnerability of small airports, then we must take this seriously. That is why I am pleased that we can debate this tonight. I say this because it does not seem as if the Minister thinks it is a very urgent problem, as the letter shows. But maybe he can reassure us today and take away our concerns. I have a number of specific points to make. If I read the figures given by the Minister, there might have been three incidents at small airports in 2017. But a small search of news reports shows that more has been going on. It's more than three cases. What does the Minister mean by "incidents"? And can he specify the numbers? Does the Minister confirm, for example, that it is very difficult to check what is happening between the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, especially since we have heard that there is a problem of trafficking in human beings at small airports? It would involve 14 Albanians, three children, and trafficking in hard drugs. These are fucking numbers. Mr. Chairman. The Marechaussee is also increasingly busy as air traffic increases in the Netherlands. I understand that the systems currently operate in such a way that administrative checks are carried out on whether there is a flight, and then it is examined whether there is a need for physical checks. Now the question is, of course, what if someone doesn't sign up for a flight? Then how are we going to check at the small airports? Can I even conclude that if flights have not been registered there is no control at all, and that there may never be spontaneous controls at these small airports? I think that is a worrying development, because if there is pressure at the major airports, one would expect to move to the small airports. The police say the same thing. I am therefore also curious to hear what the Minister has to say about the concrete points of improvement indicated by the Marechaussee. They argue, for example, that there should be at least a mandatory notification from aircraft to small airports. But the digital provision of that requires a change of law, I understand. Is the Minister prepared to do so? And what does he care if he doesn't want to do that to organize it? Mr. Chairman. In this context, I would like to look at a project called 'Wodan'. In 2013 I asked questions about this, because there was a route Wodan. It's been something from the KMar. It was rolled out at Eindhoven airport to monitor the risky flights from Eastern Europe. Thanks to this route Wodan of the Royal Marechaussee, 35 criminal partnerships were established in the period 2011-2014. These are gangs. So these are more than one or two victims per gang. It also really had a leading role in dealing with trafficking in human beings. During the period of Wodan's activity, it has contributed to the reporting of many more victims, especially from small airports, as said by the National Rapporteur on Human Trafficking. Mr. Chairman. For us, therefore, it is important to ask the Minister today: are you prepared to investigate whether something similar should be revived by Wodan? Should it be considered whether this approach can be extended across small airports? Because crime and criminals are always looking for the most vulnerable point. That makes sense. If we tighten our attention to the port of Rotterdam, people will go to Antwerp. If we focus our attention specifically on our major airports, then we go to the small airports. I've verified it with our Secretary of Defense. She also says that this is an alarming message, which she too receives from the Royal Marechaussee. What are we going to do to reassure them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Rutte of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr President. We cannot afford to have free ports in our country where organized criminals may or may not be free. The VVD is therefore keen on tackling free states, such as some squatting grounds and some neglected holiday parks. A month ago, in another debate, on terrorism, I expressed my concerns about the cracked ADM site in Amsterdam, which, according to a number of people who had entered me, would be a hotbed of crime. I do not know if there has been cause and effect, but a week later a raid took place in that area and an Eastern European gang was rolled up. Show them that signals about free states, where criminals would be free to go, are taken seriously. If the Royal Marechaussee sends such a signal about the small airports, where there would be no controls, then that is a signal that we should take seriously. Mr. Chairman. The Minister had the signals examined and indicated in his letter that no signs of a serious level of undermining crime have been received at these small airports so far. Police figures show that in 2017 there were three incidents at or around those small airports. For the time being, this is not in any relation to other places where this type of crime takes place. But that first quickscan doesn't reassure the VVD in advance. There is an old adage that says "search and you will find," but if you turn it around it is also true: if you are not looking, then you will find nothing. That's actually also the signal from the Royal Marechaussee: we don't check and so we don't find anything. At the same time, we also need to deal wisely with the existing control and detection capacity and use it as effectively as possible, i.e. in the places where the problems are greatest, where the threat is proven to be the greatest. The VVD is therefore pleased that the Minister agrees that it is a good idea to investigate the signal from the military police. The Minister joins me in saying that I think it would be wise to join the Brabant Zeeland Task Force, which has already formed a project group, which will share its findings with all the mayors of municipalities in the Netherlands where such a small airport is located during the year. That's good. In this way, it is practically investigated and knowledge is quickly shared. I would ask the Minister to inform the Chamber of the findings of this task force. I do have a number of additional questions. The task force knows a lot about organized crime. He has become wise in the meantime, because of damage and shame, a lot of experience with it. But is there sufficient knowledge and skills at the task force about international air traffic and effective controls on it? If not, how can this expertise be achieved? For example, is the incident detector, the Royal Marechaussee, involved in the investigation of the task force? If it is not yet involved, is the Minister prepared to organise this involvement? Apart from the ongoing investigation of the task force, I can imagine that the Royal Marechaussee will have a number of investigations carried out on a random basis, just look and see what you can find so that we can see the actual state of affairs. How does the Minister view this? Mr President, I look forward to the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Grothuizen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. Shortly before I was elected to this Chamber, as a prosecutor, I was allowed to do another case, I think it was my last case concerning drug smuggling at a small airport somewhere in the country. I am therefore familiar with the casusism we are discussing today. I was wondering back then, as I remember, who is actually responsible for controlling these airports. Is that the military or the police? It didn't make sense to me at the time. And to be honest, it is not quite clear from the Minister's letter either. My question is therefore: can the Minister explain the role of the military and police in these small airports? How exactly is the division of labour? Who oversees what? And is this cooperation going well if that is the case? As we all know, cooperation between investigation services is not always easy and self-evident. Mr. Chairman. I understand the potential problem. It is good that we are looking at sectors or places that are vulnerable to organised crime. Old holiday parks and marinas are susceptible to criminal activities, and small airports may fit in that list as well. There is little insight into possible criminal activities; therefore, things such as drug or human trafficking are easier to organise there than at, for example, a large airport such as Schiphol Airport. On the other hand, a spokesperson of the Marechaussee found the nature and extent of the problem difficult to determine. I think that's the dilemma of this evening: you don't know what you don't know. What we do know isn't exactly shocking. The Minister speaks in his letter about only three incidents in 2017. I therefore find it difficult to argue for more control, for example, at the moment. The extent of crime and the scale of the problem are not yet clear to me. The control we can use is not inexhaustible either. If we check more at small airports, it will automatically become less elsewhere. Control and detection are scarce assets. Mr. Chairman. D66 is a big supporter of smart detectives. That means you're working on the basis of information: information-driven tracking. I am therefore in favour of the Minister's letter. It is good to bring together different partners so that they can jointly identify the criminal activities that exist and thus create undermining images. That way, you have leads to focus on work. But I do have some questions about that. What exactly is the state of play? The letter's a little older. How's it going now? When exactly are these undermining images gonna be ready? And a very important question: what about the follow-up of any good information? Let me give you an example. I think it happens sometimes that a small plane stands out at the FBI, because it suddenly changes its escape route. These kind of indications are of course a good reason to see if something is going on. But if you're gonna get those signals, you're gonna have to be able to act fast. Can the Minister indicate whether attention is being paid to this succession? Are there possibilities for actually working and getting started? If so, who picks it up? Is that the KMar or the police, and is that secure? I'd like a response to those questions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. The title of this debate actually says a lot. This debate is about criminals who are free to go to small airports. No one wants that, of course. I do not think that we will have any major political controversy about this tonight. Many relevant questions have already been asked. Our Royal Marechaussee wants more control at small airports. There would be too little visibility on drugs and trafficking in human beings. A border guard acknowledges in daily Trouw that other priorities are set because of lack of capacity and that there is therefore no control on flights from small fields. This would also make it difficult to determine the nature and extent of crime at these 11 small airports in the Netherlands. According to the Minister, there's not that much going on. At least that's what I'm getting out of his letter. That would be the case, because there are few incidents known. But are we sure that image is true? The National Information and Expertise Centre doesn't warn for nothing, does it? There is no permanent supervision because there is too little capacity for that. And whoever doesn't look won't find it. If we were to abolish the police, we would also register less crime. At the same time, I read in the Minister's letter that he also thinks that there should be more insight into the problem. Are uncontrolled airports or are there no safe houses for crime? Have we made any progress in the last few months since the Minister wrote the letter to the Chamber? What's the status? Mr. Chairman. I also get the impression that the Minister is referring the problems to the regions. If there is a problem of undermining at small airports, this is reflected in the regional picture to arrive at an effective approach. Of course, we need the regions to do this. But good supervision, by competent and expert people, seems necessary to me. This cannot be resolved by the regions if, for example, the Royal Marechaussee is needed. After all, it seems to be a national problem, with even an international component. How is cooperation with the countries from which these small airports are operated? And how big is the capacity problem with the Royal Marechaussee right now? What if we were to agree that additional supervision is necessary? Can we do that? The key question for me is what the Minister is going to do to prevent crime at small airports from going unnoticed and therefore also going unpunished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Small airports as a port of transit for drug trafficking and trafficking in human beings: this picture was sketched in the media in January. The lack of permanent physical supervision at these small airports would put criminals in the hands of criminals. To date, the Minister has not discovered any signs of a serious level of undermining crime, he writes in his letter to the Chamber. That makes sense, we think. The Marechaussee also states that the nature and extent of such crime is difficult to establish, because public services are not present at these airports by default. We don't know because we're not here. To gain more insight, the Minister refers to the approach of the Task Force Brabant Zeeland. For my group, there are still a few questions ahead, starting with: can the Minister indicate how the supervision and control at the smaller airports have now been shaped? How exactly are the tasks between the local police and the military police divided? Is it true there's no permanent surveillance? Can we improve coordination when it is lacking? Then sign in flight plans. Flight plans contain data on the plane, where it's coming from, where it's going, how many people are on board, who they are. Such data shall be transmitted to airport operators. Are these data also provided centrally to, for example, the Marechaussee? And is it true that pilots pass on passenger and crew data only on a voluntary basis and are not obliged to do so? Shouldn't we go to a simple obligation? That data is available, so shouldn't we? My question is at the heart of the matter: what is the Minister going to do to gain more insight into the nature and extent of crime at these small airports, in the green fields? It's not just about the risks of drug trafficking or human trafficking. My group also received information from the reports on this and the reports on tackling money flows from non-free countries that have appeared in the media that cash money is being flown into our country via the smaller airports. Does the minister have any clues about that? Would he want to take that with him in the follow-up he's going to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u11	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that he needs about ten minutes to prepare himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u12	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you also to the Members for their input. Indeed, the reporting from the beginning of this year on the risk that criminals can use our small airports reached me too. I wrote you a letter on 9 February. As I indicated, I have so far received no signals from the investigation services that there would be a serious stream of undermining crime at or around these small airports. For example, police records show that three incidents occurred at or around these small airports last year. All three have been thwarted, two of them thanks to the close cooperation between police and Royal Marechaussee. Therefore, on the basis of the information I have at the moment, there does not seem to be a serious level of undermining crime at these small airports. By the way, questioning the Royal Marechaussee taught me that the call of the KMar for more control did not originate in a problem of a criminal nature, but in a possible increase in the number of border crossing points related to the KMar's border surveillance task. Nevertheless, it is good to see the nature and extent of possible undermining problems at or around these small airports. It is therefore a pity that the national meeting of, among other things, all the mayors involved, to which I referred in my letter of 9 February, has not been possible because of a lack of enthusiasm. Fortunately, the Task Force Brabant Zeeland, which has already organised a meeting on this issue at regional level, has informed me that it intends to launch a road show, where they will actively visit the mayors concerned. That's good for me. It is well known to your Chamber that this cabinet is investing heavily in tackling undermining crime. As a minister, I have also firmly committed myself to the fight against this undermining crime. The issue, that is to say the fight against undermining crime, is also very close to my heart as a coordinating minister. In order to understand the extent to which there is a potential undermining problem at or around small airports, we have the instrument of regional undermining images that are currently being developed throughout the country in the context of the Regional Information and Expertise Centres, the RIECs, as they are short-lived. If these regional undermining images show that there is a serious level of undermining crime at small airports, then what action can be taken at that time? In addition, as I would like to emphasise here, I will ask Peter Noordanus, the independent chairman of the Strategic Board of Undermining established earlier this year, to address this issue when he goes undermining the country with his hunting team approach. In this way, this subject will receive attention and the SBO can also reduce the developments surrounding this phenomenon. I would like to say, through you, to Mr Rutte, who asked a question about this, that I will give a feedback to the Chamber on the insights that are being brought back. At the moment, I think it is premature to say that small airports are causing major undermining problems, but I hope I have been able to make it clear to your Chamber that I, like my officials, keep my eyes very open to the relevant signal. So I'm coming back to the Chamber with that feedback from the SBO. I should now like to continue with the discussion of the questions. The member of Toorenburg has asked about flights that are not registered. "Doesn't one check spontaneously?" Well, if a flight is not registered, it is known to the harbor master. The harbor master has permanent contact points with the police, with the Air Surveillance team, and can point that out there. By the way, both KMar and customs frequently check samples. Those checks by the KMar showed nothing remarkable in this and in other respects. The customs authorities indicated the same after those random checks. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked if I am willing to breathe new life into Wodan and roll out further. Firstly, the KMar's information position is essential for security issues, including human trafficking and trafficking in human beings. I think that's obvious. In view of the still existing cut-off in the capacity of the KMar, there is a high risk that an intensification of controls at small airports could be at the expense of other tasks. That is why the Cabinet has allocated funds for the structural strengthening of the KMar's human capacity. The Chamber receives the 2019 priority letter for this summer, I announce. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked me how many incidents have occurred at small airports. Police figures show that there were three incidents in 2017, as I said. This is an attempt by two German pilots to transport heroin from Teuge airport to England, an attempt to smuggle Albanians from Teuge and an attempt to hijack a helicopter for the liberation of a prisoner. That's gotten a lot of publicity. All these incidents were thwarted by the police: the first two together with the KMar. The customs authorities have cooperated in various multidisciplinary checks at these airports within the framework of their own tasks. Those controls and controls on traffic coming from outside the EU do not have any significant findings to report at present.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u14	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u15	When I look around, I see that someone has to fulfil the role of opposition, so I will ask the Minister this split critical question. One of my questions was also about the lack of capacity at the Royal Marechaussee. The Minister himself acknowledged that there was a capacity problem. That is why the cabinet invests in this and in the summer we will receive a letter on the use of funds in 2019. Now I have the question to the Minister: exactly how much extra does this cabinet invest in the Royal Marechaussee, by when and what does that mean for the approach now? The incidents the minister just mentioned weren't the least. I am therefore very curious to see what we can expect at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u16	I'll start with the end. You are right: these incidents were not the least, but as I said, they were also thwarted. That's one. Two. I don't want to anticipate that letter that's coming. I promised you that. I want to hear from Noordanus how big the problem really would be. I think that is very important, and that is part of this. He then went into more detail. Then the road show of the Task Force Brabant Zeeland, with which many things were brought to the attention of the region at these small airports, may also have brought even more results in terms of alertness or problems. I would therefore like to draw from this feedback on the extent to which this problem would really be. At least at the moment we still have to rely on the recorded incidents and the findings of customs and the KMar, as I have just told you. They say, "We have no special business."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u17	I wonder how big the capacity problem for the Royal Marechaussee is now, according to the Minister. 'Cause I'm not comfortable with it. The Minister still leaves us in suspense as to how much additional resources can be added, when they can be used and for which tasks exactly, but the question is now topical and, in my view, urgent: how big is the capacity problem at the moment in the Royal Marechaussee and what consequences does this have? I think that is a question that could be raised tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u18	That question extends a little further than what the debate is about tonight. The debate tonight is about 'criminals have free play at small airports'. That is the title, as you rightly said. I have explained the following. Not only from the recorded incidents, but also from the reports of the KMar, customs and harbor masters, we have no signs of them, up to and including unlisted flights and the like. I did say I'd take it seriously. I'll give that to Noordanus. So we can't estimate that size here yet. I do not think this is the place to go through this letter of priority, which is not yet available, but I have promised you that it will come before the summer. Then some time later, when Noordanus returns, we can see exactly what the additional capacity could be for the deployment on this. If we really find that there is a problem, because we do not know that yet, and I repeat that the signals and reports do not yet give any reason to say that it is a serious problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u19	Thank you. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u20	Madam President. I come back to the questions raised by Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Van Toorenburg about these incidents and those specific figures. I have now worked out what kind of incidents these were, and I believe that this point should have been dealt with by now. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked how many checks are being carried out at small airports and whether there is ever a spontaneous check-up. Police figures show that 345 aircraft were checked by the Police Aviation Control Team in 2017, which is the number of flight movements in one day. The customs authorities checked 92 non-EU aircraft in 2017 and no irregularities were found during those checks. I would like to stress that, according to customs, there is no indication of smuggling activities from out-of-arm surveillance either. Ms Van Toorenburg suggested a change of law to allow digital reporting. It is mandatory to provide the data, but there is no requirement as to how this should be done. The KMar likes to see it happen before the flight and digitally. Now there is a pilot in which data delivery takes place using an app. In order to make digital delivery mandatory, either the Schengen Convention should be amended or an additional requirement imposed on flights to the Netherlands. At the moment, I can tell you, it is being examined whether that would be possible. Mr Rutte asked whether there was sufficient knowledge and expertise in international air traffic and effective controls at that task force. Last year, in the region of Brabant-Zeland, a regional meeting was held on the subject of small airports. It was organised by the Task Force in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and Security. I also mentioned this in my letter to your Chamber of 9 February. The KMar was also involved and present, and finally the Task Force Brabant Zeeland worked together with the RIEC, the Regional Information and Expertise Centre East Brabant, Zeeland, West Brabant and the associated action centres. These two links include police, customs and KMar, and that is where the necessary expertise lies. Mr Rutte also asked me how I would look at having the KMar carry out a number of surveys on a sample basis at the small airports in order to gain more insight into the actual state of affairs on this basis. The KMar has already checked on a sample basis and nothing remarkable came out of that at the time. The customs authorities have indicated that they have carried out frequent sampling checks with little or no findings. I intend to ask the KMar to share, wherever possible, the knowledge and expertise resulting from the police mission at designated airports with network partners such as the police. With the other authorities I can also ask the KMar to pay more attention to that. Mr Grothuizen asked how enforcement is taking place at these small airports. Several enforcement services monitor small airports from different roles and responsibilities. The task of police at small airports lies with the national police, unlike the large airports where the KMar is responsible for the police task. Each airport in the Netherlands has two staff members of the Police Aviation Control team. Those employees are very regularly present at the airports. So every airport has a permanent point of contact with the police. At the airports designated as border crossing points, the KMar is responsible for border control. The KMar is the Royal Marechaussee, I say just for the people who are wondering. Within border control, the Royal Marechaussee controls persons travelling to and from countries not covered by the Schengen Convention. All flights at the smaller airports are monitored administratively in the systems. On the basis of available information, such as a notification, it is determined whether a physical check should be carried out at the smaller airports. In the context of the supervision of non-EU goods traffic and in the context of the domestic supervision of excise goods, customs controls shall be carried out. This is information-driven and risk-oriented. Mr Van Nispen asked about international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u21	Mr Van Nispen has said that he must apologize briefly, unfortunately, because he has another activity. Please continue to answer his questions, because the SP Group is listening. You're just not getting any interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u22	Cooperation between small airports internationally is comparable to cooperation at national level. This cooperation is also taking place; there is much more to be said about it. Who supervises and who is responsible for these smaller airports, Mr Groothuizen and Mrs Van der Graaf asked. The police therefore supervise the small airports, the Royal Marechaussee on the big ones. The Royal Marechaussee also supervises security organisations at all civil airports, large and small. As I said, customs controls goods entering or leaving the EU. Mr Groothuizen asked when the undermining images were ready. It is planned that regional undermining images, as well as the national undermining image, will appear at the end of this calendar year. Mrs Van der Graaf asked if there was any indication of the import of cash through small airports. I have to say very briefly: no, there are no such indications at the moment with the police and the military. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u23	There is another interruption by Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u24	We get indications that cash is not always checked. If he's going to do further research, does the Minister want to take a look at this, too? Then it's about the baggage that customs have to check. We get that that doesn't always happen if people don't walk through the gate "something to declare," the red zone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u25	I don't understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mrs Van der Graaf, could you clarify your question a little more?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u27	We're getting signals from employees at airports. The Marechaussee's jurisdiction ends somewhere when it comes to controlling individuals. There must be reason to think that something is not right to check the luggage as well. The luggage is checked by customs. So the moment that that doesn't happen, you can't find anything that might be in those bags. Would the Minister like to take this with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u28	I'll take that with me, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u29	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term. I have heard that at least Mrs Van Toorenburg needs a short second term. I'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u30	Mr. Chairman. As the applicant for this debate and therefore the one that everyone has been dealing with here today, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Look, if there's no big deal, we shouldn't make it bigger. At the same time, I would like to put two things down. The Royal Marechaussee has repeatedly said, including our question, that there is a problem. Fortunately, the Minister says today: we're looking at a pilot to see if we should have better registration and we're looking at the undermining approach to see if there's anything we're missing. I think we should be satisfied with that for today. We would like to draw the attention of the Minister to the fact that we really do not want to have the same situation as we had at the time with the port of Rotterdam. Years ago, you may remember, President-in-Office of the Council, we, as a CDA, started to stress the problems in the port of Rotterdam. It took two and a half years for everyone to say: wait a minute, there is a very big problem at the port of Rotterdam. The same thing happened to us in 2013 in Eindhoven. Wodan's started, and they found out there was a human trafficking line. That's why, like I said, 35 gangs rolled up. Mr. Chairman. I don't want to be right today. That's why I'm letting go, and I'm not filing any motions. But I'm glad the Minister says he's gonna check it out and stay on top of it. Because really, we do not want to be right on this issue in the future either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thank you. I didn't hear a question in there, but I'm still looking at the minister. No? Then I think we're gonna stick with it. Oh, if you would like to respond briefly, I will give the Minister the floor very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u32	I have to make a very brief correction. The letter of priority is formally addressed to the Minister of Defence, and I am going to inform your Chamber. On Mrs Van Toorenburg's point, I would like to emphasise the following. We have the Strategic Board undermining. That leads me to put this down to that Strategic Council and say, "Come back to us and show us." That will indeed have a much more effect that we know more quickly what we are up to with this kind of thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-7.u33	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I thank the Minister, the MPs, the people in the public gallery, they even wave for a moment and the viewers at home.
