ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of the Member Verhoeven amending the Code of Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Law BES in order to repeal special provisions relating to majesty desecration and the insult of friendly Heads of State, Section 34456. I would like to welcome Mr Verhoeven. He is supported by Karsten Zwanenveld, a member of the D66 group, in trade-K in the defense of this bill. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The response will be discussed at a later date in consultation with the initiator. As the first speaker from the Chamber, I give the floor to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, of course, I would like to congratulate the author. He's worked hard on it. He also had to wait a while, but now he has his moment and compliments for it. What exactly is it about today? Are we talking about great things here, about freedom of speech, about the royal family? Or are we talking about simple things, an old article of law that is hardly actually being used, or just a little respect for each other? According to the VVD, today we are talking about great values and principles, but also about the reality of the day. As a former peace negotiator in the Middle East, I also think there will be a realistic solution in this beautiful Netherlands. That is why I have tabled two amendments, two practical amendments, together with Mr Kuik from the PvdA Group. But first: what do we really not have to talk about anymore? I refer to the ban on insulting foreign government leaders. That ban must simply be removed, and the VVD fully agrees with the author. Last month I asked the Minister for Justice and Security, who is also here, about the Chamber, because the Turkish President Erdogan was angry about a Dutch cartoon. He wanted the Netherlands to help him do that. That's bullshit! The Turkish President is very good at defending himself in Turkey. Maybe too good. The Dutch law does not need to help with that. So I fully agree with the abolition of the ban on insulting foreign government members. But Mr Verhoeven's bill is about much more. Of course, it's about majesty desecration, but also about a number of other things that have surprised me, and perhaps also the people at home. So let me first outline what the law is now, before the coming of Mr Verhoeven's bill. Now there is a general ban on insulting anyone. That ban will continue to apply in any case. That's not on the agenda here. So we're not going to delete that. This means that the injured party must report himself. If you're offended, you have to report it yourself. In practice, this ban results in very few convictions, but the ban exists and continues to exist. Then there is now a ban on insulting public servants such as judges, agents and directors. In this category, the offended person does not have to go to the police to report it himself. The state's attorney's office does that, if it's a really bad case. In the case of insulting a servant of the public cause, you also get a third sentence increase. The third thing we have here is the prohibition of majesty desecration, of the King or the Queen. There's now a five-year prison sentence on this. So what does Mr Verhoeven's bill want and what does the VVD want? One. Mr Verhoeven, if I have understood him correctly, wants to abolish the ban on majesty desecration. The VVD totally agrees with that. Two. He wants to limit the category of public servants, so that they no longer get that extra protection. That's what the VVD's against. But then... D66 wants the King ultimately to be given less protection than an official and for the King and the Queen herself to report on the bike. Mr Verhoeven even wrote in his memo: "But it is not easy to see why they deserve more than citizens or private legal persons." The VVD thinks that is wrong and a very bad idea. Let me go a little further on these points. What does the VVD think? We see no reason, within the ban on insulting those public servants, people who are committed to the cause of society, for all of us, to distinguish between different people: they are and they are not. Why is it less bad to offend the bailiff than the county clerk? Then why does one have to be protected and the other doesn't? The mayor must now press charges according to Mr Verhoeven, but not the municipal secretary. It's protected. All these people serve the public cause. They're committed to society, to all of us. They stick their necks out for that and make themselves vulnerable. Some are really at risk: soldiers, cops, aid workers. I know that this subject really touches a lot of these people, those fantastic people who do that work for all of us. I received a letter from the Coalition for Security, which stands up for a lot of those people, such as soldiers and aid workers. He says: this really affects us, let's not make a distinction. These people, according to the VVD, deserve our special respect. They deserve a little of our help. So let's stand for that as a society and make sure that if something really horrible is said to them, then the Public Prosecutor's Office will start that case before they do and that they will not have to press charges on their own. Of course, anyone who is committed to the public cause must accept criticism and even a great deal of criticism. Fortunately, we live in the Netherlands in a beautiful country with a lot of very powerful people. We have a fantastic freedom of speech here and there. The VVD thinks that's extremely important. People must have the freedom to say anything, including those servants of the public interest. Whether they're mayors, politicians, military or cops, you should be able to give your opinion on that. It must and must remain so. Sometimes those opinions, the insults, they're funny. I myself worked before becoming a United Nations MP for the peace negotiations for Syria and I lived in Geneva. Then I became a candidate for the House of Representatives and opened a Facebook page. The first entry on it was: traitor. Yeah, I was kind of laughing about that. That's the kind of thing you have to accept, of course. At least, I thought it was funny. But there is a limit somewhere. Those people, those cops, those aid workers, those mayors, those councilmen, those ministers, those bailiffs, those paramedics, they don't have to constantly guard that border themselves. Then it is important that we stand up for them as a society. And a little more: these people also represent something bigger. That officer is probably not being addressed for his personality, but for his position or for the uniform that Madame is wearing. Insulting these people is therefore insulting to the institute and that institution deserves our protection. We must not leave that to those who wear that uniform on our behalf at that time, and that is why we must stand up for those people. That is why I tabled an amendment, together with my colleague, Mr Kuiken of the PvdA, to maintain that broad category of public servants, not to cut them with scissors, because then you get the question: the judge does, but that member of the waterboard doesn't? No, we have to stand up for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u3	I would like to clarify the position of politicians. The bill does not give politicians and ministers the additional protection that officials do, and that is in line with European case law. So can you explain that a little bit more?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr Verhoeven makes such a cut. He wanted to exclude a lot of people from this protection. He said that it is European case law that judges and the Ombudsman should be protected. I think that's crazy. Indeed, judges and ombudsmen are entitled to that protection, but also the municipal secretary and the mayor and you, President, and the members of the Chamber and the paramedics and police officers are entitled to that protection. I don't think it's right to say, "You do and you don't."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u5	You cannot find that right, but the European judges say: politicians and ministers can say something back and officials cannot. You say the King is actually a civil servant. So you want to give that protection of officials to the King. But it is not Mr Verhoeven but European case law that says: a minister, a politician can say something back and must do so in order to protect himself. I think that's right. Why do you want to give politicians more protection now than Mr Verhoeven intends?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u6	The European judge makes such a distinction. Mr Verhoeven wishes to limit himself to that. I don't want to cut at all, like "this person does, the other one doesn't." The mayor, shouldn't we protect him or protect him when he's appointed? Does that change if we change the law? I think that's really weird. I also think that the Minister and Mrs Buitenweg, but also the paramedic and the bailiff, are entitled to that little bit of extra protection. Of course, as politicians, we must defend ourselves and not be skinny. No, we have to have very thick skin. You have to be able to say anything and disagree with us great. But you can go too far against some people. I think especially of the people on the street doing the work for us. I'd like them to be helped by the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr Koopmans made a clear statement, but a number of clarifying questions. He talks a few times about the police officer being denied extra protection. When I look at the proposal, I read that under Article 267, the extra protection that Mr Koopmans is talking about, is still the official. As far as I'm concerned, a police officer is a civil servant. It is also not covered by the exception provided for in Article 2 (1) of the Civil Service Act. So my conclusion is that that police officer is covered by that extra protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u8	Of course, Mr Verhoeven cuts around the public servants and leaves that agent there. Quite right; I am very happy with it. I'm just saying, why do you even start with those scissors? Why are you gonna choose the cop and maybe not the bailiff, or the city secretary and not the mayor? I do not know exactly, because in his proposal he refers to the Civil Service Act and there is another article to which we are referring. It's getting really complicated. I want clarity. Let's just give people who serve the public cause that extra bit of protection. Why don't you want that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u9	Clearly, then, I think we can at least establish that the police officer will continue to be subject to the additional protection, including in the own-initiative proposal. That misunderstanding has been cleared up. I heard Mr Koopmans say something else. If I remember correctly, and he will correct me if he doesn't, he said, "In a moment the King will have to ride the bike to report it." I would ask Mr Koopmans: do you agree that Article 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is not amended by this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u10	Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to go further into majesty desecration. I hadn't gotten to the argument yet. But the proposal is as it is. You and Mr Verhoeven are one of the defenders of this. I don't want to explain that to you any further, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u11	I asked Mr Koopmans if he agrees with me that that article is not being changed. Because if he agrees with me, then he also knows that the King can make a written declaration or that he can authorize someone to do so. I think it is important to have this discussion on the basis of the right facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u12	Right facts? I honestly don't know if the King has a bike right now. That's not what I'm saying. The point is that Mr Verhoeven is here proposing that the King should no longer be given the protection we give the other servants of the public cause. We'll take it away from him; I think that's a very wrong idea. I was just about to talk about that, but I am also very happy to listen to Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u13	I understand Mr. Koopmans is moving to the next point. I know the VVD as an extremely consistent party. Can you explain to me again why you think that insult of the King may disappear as a separate article, while you think that the attack on the King should continue to be a separate article? We've also criminalized murder in our law book, haven't we? Can you explain once again what the bearing consideration is to do one thing and not the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u14	Of course, I find it extremely painful to talk about what Mr Van Dam suggests: an attack on the King; I do not want to think about it. But Mr Van Dam will agree with me that the King is a very special person and a special institution. That's what it's about; that's what we have to protect, and that's what I stand for. Mr Verhoeven wants to remove a large part of that protection from insults. I say five years in prison for insulting the King is far too much, but that King must be protected from insults. But I don't want to get into the separate article about committing an attack on the King. I am glad that Mr Verhoeven does not either. So I certainly don't want to bring that up here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u15	I note that Mr Koopmans says: an attack on the King, I do not want to think about it. But you want to think of an insult to the King. You seem to find that much more normal, and I find it very special that you say that on behalf of your party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u16	I think Mr Van Dam understands that he is wrongly quoting my words. The King's insults are frequent. Very little is made of that. In practice, therefore, the article on this subject has very little value. But we have to take care of that. Mr Verhoeven is now proposing that all insults to the King should be totally impunity. The King becomes an ordinary citizen and must report on his bike. I think that's wrong. But all the other things aren't in front of this. So I do not want to go further than Mr Verhoeven does. I'm just trying to narrow down the damage he's done here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u17	Limiting the damage done by Mr Verhoeven: that sounds like music to my ears. But why should harm reduction be done at all? Why doesn't the VVD simply say: we find the arguments to completely remove majesty desecration, not convincing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u18	I see this as an invitation from Mr Van der Staaij to finally talk about majesty desecration. I also see that my time went on during the interruptions, so may I say that in response to Mr Van der Staaij's interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u19	Yeah, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u20	The ban on majesty desecration is a very impressive but ultimately very clear issue. Now there's five years in prison on insulting the King. That's not like this anymore. Despite the fact that this punishment is never imposed in practice, of course, no one in recent history has been thrown into prison for five years because of what he said to the King.He is still far too high and experienced people who take the law seriously, him as a threat in the sense of: it is there anyway. I think that's way too much. And the VVD thinks that this scares people too much to use their freedom of speech. That's why we want to get rid of that ban. Only, I want to go less far than Mr Verhoeven. I say the King is a servant of public interest. Mr Van der Staaij will certainly agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u21	Is the VVD's reasoning that there are now too many people in the country who say: I must stop deliberately insulting the King, because I have seen in the law book that there is five years on it? Is that indeed the social problem for which a solution must now be found?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u22	Mr Van der Staaij may know that it works both ways. On the one hand, there is a very high penalty provision, which has a deterrent effect for people, such as Mr Van der Staaij and myself. That's something to take seriously. So I'm saying two things. Some people take that seriously and we must reassure them: it is bad to insult the King in this hurtful way, but five years is excessive in relation to other punishments. But there are also people who know that this article is hardly actually being applied in practice. Those people are using the fact that this article exists as a reason to provoke. So on the one hand there's this huge punishment, but in practice it's not enforced and that's why people are going to show: I can insult the King and nobody's going to hurt me! We want to tackle this problem. That is why I agree with the abolition of that huge article, but I also agree with Mr Van der Staaij that we must protect the King as a servant of public interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u23	It's very special. So the penalty is five years. That encourages people to offend. Then we're gonna lower that. That's what she'll learn! Then they'll stop! I think it's really special. We're gonna pull that parallel more often, because I think we're gonna talk to the VVD more often about the penalty. If we want to punish harder, we have to lower that sentence! I really think it's a great reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u24	Mr President, may I respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u25	You can respond to it like this, Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u26	If Mr Koopmans wants to go into that, it is allowed, because I think it is really phenomenal. But all that aside. My question is actually about the internal debate that took place at the VVD. Mr Verhoeven came up with his miserable proposal to distance himself from that majesty desecration and said: well, that King may insult you; none of that matters. The reaction of the political leader of the VVD was: I understand that aspect of the friendly head of state, but we have to think for a long time about that majesty desecration. His reaction was: you must not withdraw the King's debate. How did that debate take place and how did the VVD come to say: well, it could be a little less toothless with that majesty desecration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u27	Firstly, on Mr Segers' first point, namely whether the VVD believes that you should lower the penalty to impose a real penalty. No, the crazy thing is: because this sentence is so excessive, namely five years in prison for saying something to the King, this provision has no effect. We in the VVD are very often in favour of stricter penalties. We believe that a measure of punishment should be realistic. Then we hope that the judge will use it as well. Only, the punishment at Your Majesty's desecration is simply not realistic. Five years in jail! You can do very bad things and in the current law you get four years, three years, or two years. We therefore believe that it should be balanced. That is why I say, let us make that measure of punishment realistic and simply protect the King as a servant of public interest, just like the other servants. Then there is the issue of the internal discussion at the VVD. I know that Mr Segers has his own method of making the internal debate clear. The discussion at the VVD is as follows. We now find this article on majesty desecration excessive. It doesn't work right. On the one hand, it is terrifying for people who take the law seriously, but on the other hand it is a kind of incentive for people to see how far they can go, because they are not being prosecuted anyway. We all want the law to be taken seriously. Then the law must also be realistic and enforceable. Therefore, like other servants of the public interest, the King must be protected. People who then break this law must be punished in a realistic way, just like all the others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u28	If we're talking about a five-year sentence, it's not a minimum sentence, it's a maximum sentence. There is no obligation at all to impose five years. If the state's attorney's office wanted to make a case out of something, it's hard to believe it's going to be five years. Luckily, we don't have minimum sentences. We are against it; the VVD has had a different opinion on it. It's not a minimum sentence; it's a maximum sentence. So I don't think it's a valid argument. I note in all clarity that where the political leader has said 'boys, we need to look at this very closely before we go on this path', the signal from the VVD is now finally: the institution of King is important, but also not so important to maintain what we now have and to maintain the protection we now have. That, I think, is the outcome of an internal party discussion that lasted two years. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u29	Before Mr Segers closes his acquaintance: no, we think the King, the Royal House, is very important. We also consider freedom of expression to be extremely important. We also consider the law to be very important. We want this law to be realistic with freedom of expression and respect for the royal family. That is why the VVD believes that five years' imprisonment is excessive. That is not realistic, and Mr Segers knows it. That is why we say: let us keep the law realistic, let us make the law realistic. So not what Mr Verhoeven is proposing, nor what it is now. Mr Verhoeven says: let us deprive the King of all protection. We think that is a bad thing. But now the law says five years in prison. That's a bad thing, too. It's just not realistic. Let's be realistic. That is why I think that I find Mr Segers and Mr Van Dam alongside me when I say that the King is a servant of the public interest. We all think freedom of expression is important, but let us protect the King from abuse of freedom of expression as much as other servants of the public interest: agents, paramedics, all those people. He deserves that respect and I think Mr Segers agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u30	One more question to the representative of the VVD. I do not hear you say anything about the proposal to simply reduce the penalty rate in the current article. So we maintain Article 111. You think five years is too much. Maybe you'll find the additional sentence too much. Let's do something off there, but let's keep this article going. I don't hear you say that. Would you like to talk about whether the VVD sees room for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u31	The point is that we now have Mr Verhoeven's bill which says: let's throw away that article and then let's put the King at the level of people who actually do not get protection from the Public Prosecutor's Office. We think that is a bad thing. There is an article to protect servants of the public interest: agents, bailiffs, mayors. In our view, that would be a very good place for the King. Let's put him in there. That's good, right? Then you'll have a realistic measure of punishment. And of course, these things happen very little, but when they happen, it's okay if you have an article that's just used a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u32	Please continue. I think you were just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u33	I spoke of 'often used', but of course I meant'realistic use'. What D66 is proposing is that if he hears anything vulnerable, the King himself will go to the police. But does Mr Verhoeven want the King, when he hears that someone has said something about his daughter on television, to miss out first on Broadcast to see how his family, his child is hurt and then to talk to his lawyer about it? That's not right to the special position of our royal family, is it? The royal family plays a very important role in our society and in our state system. The King is also there for life and therefore also has...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u34	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on. Mr Verhoeven says that it is a European human right that the Ombudsman is given this special protection. It is a European human right that the Ombudsman who gets protection as a servant of the public interest, and the King does not get it. That's crazy, isn't it? The King and the Queen deserve our respect. They work every day for the Netherlands. They're doing it for life. I am thinking of Princess Beatrix, who has given this country a special shine for 80 years. I'm thinking Princess Amalia. Abolish your Majesty's desecration? Yes. But giving the King less protection than a civil servant? No. That's going too far for the VVD. That is why I tabled an amendment, together with my colleague, Mr Kuik of the PvdA, to give the King as much protection as those other public servants. I ask the Chamber for broad support for this. I come to my conclusion. In this room, we all have our opinions. That's why we're here. As a convinced liberal, I am also very pleased that my socialist friend Mr Van Raak can give his opinion, and so is my politically reformed friend Mr Van der Staaij, and all the other friends and colleagues I see here. But it is at least so important that everyone in the Netherlands can freely express their opinion, about me, about them, but also about that agent and that mayor and about everyone, about the Prime Minister and also about the King. No one should be deterred by that five-year prison sentence, by that enormous punishment. Freedom of expression is essential for us, but let us give the people who are committed to the public cause the help that we as a society owe to them. So that means that the D.A. is acting for them if someone's really out of line. That little respect is part of the deal. So let us not choose between that agent and that mayor, and that official and the Ombudsman, or not. That is why I tabled that second amendment. Because of the enormous importance of freedom of expression, the VVD is in favour of the removal of the sentence on majesty desecration. If that punishment is never imposed, as it is now, it is in no relation to the act. We're in favour of severe punishment, but yes, of course, this is a very crazy figure. But we think it would be very wrong if this proposal by Mr Verhoeven meant that the King would suddenly no longer be assisted by the law, whereas officials would become it. The King deserves our respect and the King is a servant of the public cause. Let us therefore give him the protection he deserves, like other servants of the public cause. That is what we are talking about today: that freedom of expression and that little respect, and that is all very well. That is why I hope for broad support for that amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u35	I have a question. Mr Koopmans says he doesn't want to choose: he does, he doesn't. That sounds very consistent, but there will be debates all over the country, for example in the context of the municipal elections, and then Mr Koopmans can also debate with someone who has not yet been elected, a citizen. In this case, there are different legal bases in his proposal, because the politician is protected, but the citizen with whom he is debating does not have that additional protection. Does he recognise that there is a difference in legal protection, even though he pretends to be equal opportunities for everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u36	The idea we stand for is that the people who work for the public interest, as a profession or profession, whether that is an ambulance brother or that city councilman or that mayor or that agent, because they are working for the whole of society and sticking their necks out, get a little extra protection. What's that bit? That they don't have to go to the police station themselves. I think we can give them that little bit. And then I don't want to make a distinction. And then Mrs Buitenweg will say: yes, but what about the citizen? That citizen also has the right to respect and to help. That is why we still have the ban on insulting people in general. If someone really, really, really gets overboard, you can go to court and he'll do something about it. But if people are professionally, consistently, as an appeal, committed to the public cause, whether that is the King or Mrs Buitenweg or the clerk or the mayor or the paramedic, then I think that we as a society can best give those people that little respect that we say they do not have to go to the police station themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u37	I found it very pleasant to be aligned with the King, and then there was a very sadness. I fully agree with you that we need to offer extra protection to ambulance staff and to the police; those who are also confronting us. But what you're all about is that you're asking for extra protection for yourself, for the politicians. I think that is inappropriate, because we are free and frank in the debate. Then you can expect a headwind. We can defend ourselves. It's not for politicians and not for the D.A. to figure out if our souls are harmed or if there's an extra scratch on them. We should be free and frank to engage in that debate, and then you cannot align us with paramedics or police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u38	Absolutely. I certainly wouldn't want to align myself with paramedics, cops, people going out on the streets and all having to solve that sort of thing. I have a great deal of respect and admiration for that. I think they deserve that extra bit of protection. I just don't want to make that cut: that one does, that one doesn't. How does Mrs Buitenweg do that when a mayor suddenly gets elected? The Minister is appointed, but Mr Verhoeven and I are elected, so where do you make that distinction? The city council members are a little extra vulnerable anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u41	You were ready, weren't you? Thank you, Mr. Koopmans. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u42	Mr. Chairman. I'm a little worried about the coalition. When I hear the debate like that, I see hair cracks. Surely the King will not lead to division in this government? We will be following the rest of the debate with great interest. "I think the King makes very little of his job." I think I'm gonna drop a silence. The chairman looks a little confused to me. I see that no Member of the European Parliament is jumping up to say that this kind of statement really cannot be made. I think Ferdinand Domela Nieuwenhuis would have been surprised if he saw this tonight. In 1886 exactly these words appeared, that the King makes so little of his job, in Straight for Allen, the newspaper of the socialists. And of course he wasn't wrong. King Willem III was completely insane. This Oranjetelg was also called "King Gorilla." And yet Domela Nieuwenhuis' comment about the King's job had great consequences for him. Domela Nieuwenhuis was sentenced to a year of solitary confinement for majesty desecration. Today we are discussing a proposal by Mr Verhoeven to delete this special sentence for insulting the King. You will understand that as a socialist I will wholeheartedly support this proposal, even as a kind of tribute to Domela Nieuwenhuis. When we speak of majesty desecration, we must know what that is, "Majesty." The term comes from Roman law. "Majestas" was the power of the Roman Republic. You weren't supposed to mock him. This was seen as undermining the Roman state. At the time when emperors and kings entered, the majesty of the state passed over to the person. In our country, that was from 1815 on, for the Oranges. In 1881 the Code of Criminal Law included criminal provisions with substantial prison sentences. Domela Nieuwenhuis was, as I said, the first victim. But, Mr President, the Netherlands is also a democracy in which citizens must be able to speak freely and always criticise power. In our view, this free debate serves a higher purpose than the individual feelings of politicians, including those of the Head of State. We wholeheartedly support the author in this. The bill does more than that. It also wants to reverse the provisions on insulting friendly heads of state. And I can express our support for that too. The head of state which our citizens cannot criticize is by definition not a friendly head of state for us. Can everything just be said? Should political ministers not defend themselves against insults, discrimination, lies and defamation? Yes, Mr. Chairman. Any politician can and can always defend himself in the public debate. Fortunately, that happens every day in our country. But politicians can, if they deem it necessary, also report themselves. Can the petitioner confirm once again that, if we abolish the provisions of majesty desecration, the King, like any citizen, can simply report defamation, slander and insult? I admit that the King has a special position in our state order. On the one hand, he is an institution as head of state. On the other hand, he is also a person to whom ministerial responsibility also applies. The King cannot defend himself against allegations in the public debate. That's a matter for the Prime Minister. Does the author agree with me that it would be better if others could press charges before the King, for example the Prime Minister? If we abolish the special protection for the King, he will be subject to the normal rules. But the question is: what is normal? What rules are those? Those of politicians, who are not subject to special rules, or those of civil servants, who do have special protection? That's an interesting constitutional issue. Should we now consider the King as a politician because he is a political minister or is he more comparable to an official because he has the ministerial responsibility? I am asking the author, but I am also extremely curious about the Minister's thoughts on this. Several trade unions and police and military organisations are concerned that this proposal reduces the penalty for insulting an official in office. That's right, that's what I'm asking the petitioner. It is not intended that, by abolishing majesty desecration, we should reduce the special protection of police and other aid workers. Domela Nieuwenhuis had a lot to lose when he wanted to defend the free word. This socialist lost his own freedom and ended up in prison. Domela's courageous action is in stark contrast to the actions of many today's defenders of the free word, who have been given all the freedom to criticize others, but are caught in the cramp when they themselves receive criticism and who, instead of defending themselves, walk to court. I regret that Mr Baudet is not here today. Here he can hold the debate openly; you should not do that in court. Because, President, politics belongs in this Chamber and not in court. I don't think it's a test of courage when politicians sue each other because the other has said something. A courageous politician seeks the heat of the debate and not the shelter of the gown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u43	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now turn to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u44	Madam President. It is courteous to always compliment an initiator on the great commitment he has shown to make a legislative proposal and answer questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u45	So much for the compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u46	I can already hear Mr Verhoeven laughing, because why don't you say right away: what kind of gossip is this, can't it go into the trash immediately? Well, because you also have to show some respect for the office of the people's representative. Even if you disagree with someone, you can still appreciate the role someone plays. That's why I'm attached to just starting out like this. But I admit that the compliments in the rest of my speech are a little more limited, because the SGP Group is not very enthusiastic about the legislative proposal itself. It is always a good practice for every law, and especially every initiative proposal, to ask the question: what problem does this solve? I would like to hear the initiator, Mr Verhoeven, again. I have already heard from Mr Koopmans. As a result, I have already felt a little more, for all those people in the country who shudderingly every night see the grave threat of punishment in Article 111 of the Code of Criminal Law and then say: I must stop insulting the King; I must not do it anyway. I haven't come across these people on my work visits, but I'm always open when colleagues have experience. Hence the question to Mr Verhoeven once again: what problem does this solve? Is this, above all, more room for insulting the King, which is the thrust of this proposal? Isn't that a very unfortunate signal? Decent and respect are important values in a society. This is also fully up-to-date in 2018. This applies in general to the relationship between citizens, but this also applies to the attitude towards the authorities. Honor your father and your mother. Honor those who hold a responsible office in the administration of our country. These are values that I believe are still very important. Fortunately, there is a broad freedom of expression in the Netherlands. You may enthusiastically support the abolition of the monarchy and you may express extensive criticism of the King, but there are also limits. Intentional insult to the head of state is not allowed. And that is an understandable and rightful limitation. My group believes that it is well worth preserving. That freedom of speech is not all that. Apart from freedom of expression, it is also about respect for constitutional state institutions. And they disappear from the picture in this bill. The Council of State uses the word "shot" for that, and I share that. Mr. Chairman. The absoluteisation of freedom of expression is not the only problem that this bill suffers. I'm also tasting a freakin' equality spirit in it. If it's up to Mr Verhoeven, the King will have to complain himself if he's offended. Now I'm sure the King can stand up for his own rights if necessary, but do we really have to let the King himself go to the police station to report that he's offended? It seems a lot that this bill treats everyone equally, but that is, of course, only appearance. The principle of equal treatment is equal treatment. On the basis of the Constitution, there is something more to say than that everyone is equal before the law. The King has a special position. He's head of state. That has consequences, too. His own freedom of expression is limited, because of his role as head of state. He can't just say everything he wants. The ministers are responsible. It is therefore only logical that there should also be a difference. The King has a special task within our state system, an important connecting role. A lot is also expected from the head of state. That also justifies a particular respect for the Head of State. The ban on majesty desecration therefore still has an important role to play. Mr. Chairman. I also run into a legal systematic argument: Mr Van Dam had just had an interrupting debate with Mr Koopmans. We also have a whole department on royal dignity. Article 108 of our Code of Criminal Law also contains a specific provision for an attack on the life or freedom of the King, his husband and heir to the throne. Can the initiator explain to us why the provision on the prohibition of manslaughter would not be equally sufficient? This is also a special provision, which differs from what applies to other citizens, in that title on crimes against royal dignity. In short, this bill also sounds like a piece of legislation. And the principle that everyone is treated in exactly the same way when it comes to freedom of expression is not in line with the Constitution for another reason either. For Article 71 of the Constitution expresses parliamentary immunity. Insults expressed by MPs or ministers during debates cannot lead to prosecution. The distinction between "ordinary" Dutch and political ministers is thus reflected in other places in the Constitution. In short, politicians, administrators, state institutions and people who occupy public offices should certainly not feel too rushed on their toes, but because of their special place in the state system it is also not strange to have specific provisions apply to them. Mr. Chairman. For all these reasons, therefore, we consider it entirely justified to retain the article on majesty desecration. That is why I have Mr Van Dam's amendment to item No. 13 co-signed. Then the other part, about friendly heads of state. We can imagine a little more when adjusting the ban on insulting friendly heads of state. But when exactly is someone a friendly head of state? That's pretty spacious: about everyone you're not at war with. Wouldn't Kim Jong-un have stepped on his toes too quickly in the Netherlands? Is he really our friend now? That certainly raises real questions. The example of Erdogan has also been mentioned. However, there is still an interest in the proper treatment of Heads of State who are visiting here. In 1976, the Government considered that such a complaint could be the subject of a report only after a complaint has been lodged by the Head of State's friend. The evidence is, of course, usually long gone by then. Can the petitioner and the minister give their views on this again? Does it really remain virtually impossible for such a head of state to defend itself against such an insult if you make it a complaint? Wouldn't another solution be to add perhaps an extra ground in relation to the public interest, so it's clear that not every ugly word can be prosecuted? My key question, also to the Minister, is: how far do the international obligations in relation to what is called 'friendly Heads of State' really extend? Mr. Chairman. Let me turn to the final section, judges and officials who enjoy special protection under the current regulations. The VVD has already made a point of the complaint requirement for people serving the public cause. I don't understand why a civil servant needs more protection from insult than the King. In the reply, there is a rather special argument for this. Insulting an official in office has acquired a permanent and meaningful place in the citizens' awareness of the law. Oh, yeah? Then where is the argument of equality? In short, it seems that there is a great deal of legal awareness and development to put these provisions in the order set out in this bill. Rounding up. The SGP Group has fundamental objections to this bill and will therefore not support it, but of course we look forward to the response of the initiator, because it is always good to have a good discussion about it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u47	The petitioner has put forward a bill here to abolish the provisions on the desecration of majesty. I see that an amendment has been tabled by Mr Van Dam, also signed by you, in order to maintain the provision for majesty desecration. I wonder if you do not find this amendment destructive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u48	I would find it destructive if this were the only part of the bill, but as you have seen, the citation title has been changed by letter of amendment. These are different parts of the bill. It is also about the position of friendly heads of state, so the second part. The third is the regulation on civil servants with a public role. Then we actually take out one part of it with this amendment, so that it is not destructive. If all the amendments tabled were to be adopted on different parts of the legislative proposal at the same time, I believe that we would no longer have to vote on the legislative proposal, but that is another matter. In any case, I am pleased to note that no amendments have yet been tabled which could lead to a deterioration of the legislative proposal in my view. That actually shows how rabid this bill was. That's what I'm saying as a final compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u49	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u50	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin this debate by congratulating Mr Verhoeven. If you find something from a political point of view, it is an exalted duty to pursue it as a politician. That's what he did with verve. I have asked the messenger to present my story to the petitioner and his supporter. Maybe it'll make it easier for him to watch. I too should like to say that the complimentary part of my contribution has been with this. My input will show that the CDA Group completely disagrees with these D66 proposals on essential points. We do not want anything to change the way our King is protected from insult. We also do not want anything to change in the regulations concerning insulting mayors, aldermen, counselors, conductors of the NS, bus drivers of Connexxion or paramedics in private service. Before going any further, I would like to inform the initiator that it is perfectly clear to me that all those officials I mention in my contribution can continue to appeal to the general offense article, Article 266 in the Criminal Code. But we don't think that's enough. My party, the CDA, has long been fighting for decency in social life and for decency in the social debate. We are passionately in favour of this public debate, but we are very aware that, in an over-free and unheard-of social debate, it is always the minorities, the vulnerable, who are the first to lose out. That is why we were and are opposed to the abolition of Article 137c, the article on group termination. That is why we are in favour of a ban on the glorification of terrorism, which will soon be defended by the CDA as an initiative proposal in this Chamber. Freedom of expression is not unlimited, knows boundaries, including in protecting the weak. The King is, in some sense, a weak party in our system of states. He is morally strong, but through the ministerial responsibility under which he operates, limited in giving his opinion, in being able to defend himself. That is why, as citizens, we must assume our responsibility to protect the kingship and the king who functions in it. That is the CDA's commitment to this debate. Mr. Chairman. This bill focuses on three main issues. I shall deal with them in turn. Let me begin with the easiest part of the bill, the abolition of Article 118, the insult of a foreign head of state who is here on a state visit. You can't be against everything. That's kind of the motto I use on this part of the bill. This section is often linked to recent experiences with the Turkish government. That is something my group can imagine. But how would that have been twenty years ago if President Mandela had visited our country at the time and he would have been offended during a visit to the Netherlands? The maximum we had to offer him was a ride to the police station where he himself could report and complain. That is quite embarrassing, but there are more important issues in this bill to set up the arrows, such as the proposal to abolish the separately criminalized desecration of majesty. Let me first try to figure out why D66 actually wants this. In the explanatory memorandum, two main reasons are mentioned: the national developments surrounding the King's appreciation of our state system and the international developments, in particular European developments concerning the right of expression of freedom. I'll start with the first one. The author points out the changed social and political significance of our King, of the monarchy. Where in the nineteenth century our King was seen as the most important embodiment of the Dutch State, according to the author, the King in 2018 has been given more of a constitutional supporting role. I quote the explanatory statement: "It is also important to note the actual development in which the King has become more and more a 'Known Dutchman', who uses professional spokesmen, well-prepared interviews and a sophisticated media strategy." Our King, Willem-Alexander, is assigned by D66 to Geer and Goor. Thank you. It is clear that we, as CDA, have a totally different view of this. Of course, the King's constitutional role has changed over the centuries. But where D66 since 1830, when the majesty desecration was criminalized in our code, sees a constant downward line, the CDA sees a modern, meaningful, unimaginable form of monarchy that is worth protecting separately. And let me use words from others, first of all those from the Council of State. "The existing institutions in our democratic rule of law have not lost interest over time. On the contrary, at a time when views of the State and philosophical and cultural backgrounds differ, common polite values and standards become more important. This applies a fortiori to the King, as a special symbol of the national community. The King's comparison with any well-known Dutchman (...) is in any case contrary to that." Thus the Council of State. And what to think of the authoritative connoisseur of Dutch political and parliamentary history professor Joop van den Berg. In his book entitled Power lost, authority strengthened, he describes that it is Beatrix who has contributed significantly to a revaluation of kingship in the Netherlands. Beatrix and in her footsteps Willem-Alexander have made the royal house a refuge hill of tranquillity, cleanliness and regularity in troubled times of populism, terrorism and disasters, including maintaining the values of our country and Europe. May I also point out that what Professor Bas de Gaay Fortman says in his book called Morel Heritage? He sketches to all extent the inconvenience that can exist between the concept of hereditary kingship and the concept of democratic society. There is a lot to say about this in theory, but De Gaay Fortman focuses on how that works in Dutch practice. He notes that the constitutional monarchy is an essential part of our moral heritage. For me, that is summarised in this one sentence: "Anyway, in our country, the honor of the nation is represented by the successor in a family who has proved in particular in the last century that he can bear in all dignity and humility." In short: nothing ornament, nothing "known Dutchman," but the King as an essential institution in and of our democratic rule of law. A King who, for left and right, preserves and radiates calmness, tranquility, decency. The King and the Queen have that eye and ear for individual people affected by an air disaster, an attack, by disaster. Which binds us together, which is of value in our way of living together. Which, as De Gaay Fortman so eloquently puts it, represents the honor of the nation. And that, in the opinion of the CDA, is precisely what justifies the continued existence of a separate criminalisation of insulting the King in our Code of Conduct. Not a provision that protects the integrity of the king's private person or that focuses on the king's person in office. No, it's about the dignity of kingship, that's what it's about to protect. That is precisely why there is the importance of a separate criminalisation, in a separate part of our code. Article 111 is set out in Title 2 of Book 2 of the Code of Criminal Law. The articles in this title are about royal dignity. Here no complaint requirement, because it is primarily the government, the prosecutor who decides on the prosecution. This is contrary to Article 266 of the Code of Criminal Law, the "ordinary" insult article contained in Title 16. Title 16 deals primarily with the moral integrity of individual people: the importance that no one has to make out for rotten fish. Here the complaint gives the individual the opportunity to put the hand brake on the prosecution monopoly of the prosecutor. This underlines once again that individual interests of people are at stake here, not the public interests of the kingship. Mr President, I come to the second argument: the development of European case law on freedom of expression. There has been a great deal of change in this area over the past 40, 50 years. But does this case law or the recommendations of bodies such as the Council of Europe oblige us to abolish the separate criminalisation of majesty? With the Council of State, the CDA Group says that the legislative proposal as it stands today is far too much of an overreaction. The European Court of Justice draws a number of relevant conclusions in its judgments. I'm just gonna walk by. Firstly, public persons, especially politicians and executives, should generally be more pleased than any private person. Although a politician is also entitled to protect his reputation, this protection must be balanced against the interests of an open discussion on political issues. In this context, it is also often referred to as "the right to offend" and "the right to shock." Secondly, a special legal status for Heads of State who, solely because of their position or status, protects them from criticism and gives them a privilege, is not in line with modern practices and political views, according to European case law. But, Mr President, we do not have that situation in the Netherlands, do we? Can the applicant explain again how he appreciates the Dutch case law in this context, and in particular the so-called three-step doctrine? The first thing to do is to see if anything is offensive. Then it will be examined whether such an expression fits in with a social or political debate or whether there is an artistic expression, and then, as a third step, check whether the statement is over the top despite that context. This case law applies equally to insults of our Head of State. When reading the documents, I felt that the author did not properly understand the material requirements of a declaration of proof of Article 111. For example, the author of the note following the report states that the charge of grandiose desecration by the public prosecutor is much "easier" than simple insult, because all kinds of additional requirements must be taken into account in the event of a simple insult. The applicant states: "It is in this context that part of the justification for the deletion of the provision on majesty desecration lies." But this is factually incorrect. I refer to the literature in which it is clearly stated that the insulting concept in Article 111 refers to the offences described in Title 16, including the case law applicable to them. Does the petitioner agree with me? This leads to another question: why has the petitioner not bothered to ask the opinion of the Public Prosecutor on such a delicate subject? There are so many assumptions, so many legal and practical assumptions. The assessment of this type of criminal law requires a great deal of specialist knowledge, which the author of this bill does not place on the table, given the answers he gives in the report's note. Understandably, by the way, because it is complicated matter. Is the applicant prepared to seek that opinion, not only from the Public Prosecutor, but also from usual and relevant other advisers? To sum up, Mr President, as far as European case law is concerned, the CDA Group believes that our current Dutch approach fully complies with European standards. In the Netherlands too, much can and can be said about the royal house, especially if this is done in the context of a social debate. One of the most recent, controversial cases is the so-called "fuck the King" case, in which the man who made that statement eventually linked the discussion about slavery and Black Piet. In the three-stage case-law of our own Supreme Court, that took away the criminality of the verdict. We don't live here under a rock! The only point that can be criticised from a European perspective is the measure of punishment and the additional penalties for restricting the right to vote and to stand as a candidate. As a CDA, we could imagine that there would be an adjustment there, and we would like to discuss this with the author. But only if the separate criminalisation, which is precisely the expression that it is not about the private interests of Mr. Willem-Alexander but about the dignity of the kingship, remains intact. And only if the complaint requirement goes off the table in line with the previous one. Mr. Chairman. Finally, as regards the desecration of majesty, a word about that complaint. If it's up to the petitioner, the King, like every Dutchman, has to file a complaint. I have already argued how this is underlined once again that this insult becomes a private matter. But I predict that this complaint requirement will hardly be prosecuted in our country for insulting the King, because the King will look forward to contributing himself to prosecution. The practice so far, and I speak from personal experience, is that our King has nothing to do with prosecutions on Article 111 of the Criminal Code. The Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice and Security have nothing to do with this either, or at least do not interfere. It is the Public Prosecutor's Office that decides whether to prosecute, and at best the King and the Ministers are informed that this is going to happen. The King is not involved and that is only right in this multimedia Internet time, in which everyone who makes a decision is made. Because the King is not involved in this, he is also not critical. That will change completely with this D66 proposal. It is not for nothing that the criticism of the Council of State focuses on this point: the introduction of the complaint requirement. In addition, there is ministerial responsibility. The complainant states that the King's complaint falls under the ministerial responsibility and that the King can consult with the Prime Minister: do we or do we not? Where the D.A. is currently making a legal-technical assessment, it is being prosecuted for the desecration of majesty, whether or not it is a political act. This is my prediction that a complaint will not be made soon, even in the case of gross violations, because any politician, even if he were quite right to do so, would have the suspicion that he or she would silence opponents? Did the petitioner come up with that, or is it perhaps a deliberate goal? In particular, the introduction of the complaint requirement is a matter for my group. As I said at the start of my speech, freedom of expression is worth a lot, but rightly limited when the interests of the weak are at stake. Our King and our kingship, precisely because of the ministerial responsibility, are limited in the ability to defend themselves. The author points out in the documents the assertive attitude of our royal family when it comes to conducting interim proceedings or other civil actions, but what he does not seem to understand is that it is precisely the king as a private person: as a father of children and as a protector of the privacy of his family.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u51	I'm trying to understand Mr Van Dam. I believe he is saying: I do not see that there will soon be a case for insulting the King, because if there is to be consultations with the Prime Minister, the choice will not be made soon to take ministerial responsibility for this. He then opposes the more technical assessment by the D.A., which he sees in the current situation. I see him nodding. But isn't it true that all the decisions the prosecution is making now are simply the ministerial responsibility of the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u52	That is certainly true, but when we talk about a specific criminal case here in this Chamber at Oral Question Time, it is generally the Minister of Justice and Security who says: sorry, this is a specific matter, which is with the Public Prosecutor and I am keeping a certain distance from it. What is going to happen here is that it is literally stated in the explanatory statement that the petitioner is giving the King the warm advice to have another discussion with the Prime Minister whether or not he is doing so. So the Prime Minister is directly involved in that consideration. That is the essential difference between now and what is intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u53	What a blessing it would be if we in this Chamber were to talk less about individual criminal matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u54	It's not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u55	Mr Van Dan is right, it is certainly not his fault. Of course, the question remains that in this proposal, too, the decision lies with the King himself or he says: I am offended and I want something to be done with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u56	I think I have argued in detail that this is precisely the other side of this proposal. The King is above the parties. In the present situation, he is not interfering with any prosecution for majesty desecration. That complaint requirement obliges him to express his opinion on this matter. I fully agree with those who say that Article 164 states that you can also send someone else. But you will agree with me that, even if you send someone else, it remains your personal decision to file that complaint. I call the complaint the hand brake on the prosecutor's prosecution monopoly. I'm moving on. When it comes to the dignity of kingship and the public interest of the ban on violating His Majesty, we must do so. As owners of our democratic rule of law, we must create resources and opportunities for this. As the King upholds the glory of our nation, so we must uphold and protect the King. In doing so, adequate, separately criminalised protection against insult is appropriate. Mr President, it is time for us to move on to the conclusion of my contribution, and I also think that it is time for you not to worry about the third part of the legislative proposal: the significant limitation of the criminalisation brought about by Article 267 of the Criminal Code. The author of the bill wishes to preserve the increased penalty and lack of the complaint requirement only for officials in the strict sense of the Civil Service Act. Let me start with parts 1 and 3 of the article. In so far as part 1 is concerned with public authority, a public body or a public institution, the CDA Group wonders whether the petitioner has considered that recent convictions for insulting the police, and not an individual officer but the corps, belong to the past. And I'm not talking about individual policemen. I'm talking about the institute. I mean, for example, the action against the abbreviation "ACAB," "all cops are bastards," on T-shirts. Does the applicant consider that the insult of such authorities or public bodies will continue to fall under the protection of Article 266, or is that going to lapse? Or shouldn't these kinds of expressions be punishable anymore? Is the applicant prepared to seek advice from the police and other relevant bodies and institutions? But then the pièce de résistance of the bill and of this contribution: limiting Article 267 of the Criminal Code to just those who are referred to as civil servants, i.e. not representatives of the people or political directors. At first I thought it was a mistake of the author, a little too generous of the scythe. But, no, both the explanatory memorandum and the note on the report show that the author is wisely referring all those who are now covered by the term 'official' but are not civil servants within the meaning of the Civil Service Act to the general offense article. I quote the author: "For the rest, the initiator is based on the Civil Service Act as it stands. This indeed means that no additional protection is offered to people who perform public work in the service of a private employer. However, that is the case now. This is recognised in the Safe Public Task programme. For this reason, the programme provides for hand-outs for the submission of complaints." Mr. Chairman. What kind of handouts are those? I have been active on the part of the prosecution for years in the practical implementation of VPT, Security Public Task, and I know how many measures have been taken in that programme to prevent the identity of the injured aid worker, public or private, from entering a police trial report. But if there is to be a complaint, a personal desire to prosecute, then it will be very complicated to guarantee anonymity. What is the applicant's view and has he sought advice from those responsible for the VPT programme or from the emergency services concerned? Would he then immediately ask if his assumption is correct that VPT is, I quote, 'focus on physical and verbal violence'? "Threes and intimidation must be considered more than insults." What about all the VPT prosecution cases I've done as a prosecutor with double or sometimes triple fines and demands? I ask that because everyone understands that it starts with insulting and continues from there. By whom did the petitioner take advice here and is he prepared to re-examine the scope of the VPT programme? Mr. Chairman. The reason why I thought that the petitioner had made a mistake is that with the so strict civil servant concept of the Civil Service Act a large number of private workers, the conductor of the NV Nederlandse Spoorwegen mentioned above, the bus driver of Connexxion, I suddenly have to think of Mr. Teeven, but also a large part of the ambulance staff is out of the boat. Would the complainant be prepared to join the term "official" in Article 84 of the Code of Criminal Law, which means that this ambiguity is directly a thing of the past? It is in itself remarkable that the petitioner goes to another law, namely the Civil Service Act, to borrow a definition there to then transplant it to the Code of Criminal Law. By joining Article 84, all those people in the front line remain spared from the complaint requirement, they can defend themselves against insults in relative anonymity under the operation of the VPT programme. And, Mr President, in conclusion, would the author be wise to make explicit reference to the concept of "official" in Article 84 of the Criminal Code, including the mayor, the alderman, the councilman and all the other politicians and directors? Of course, they too may fall back on Article 266 in the applicant's proposal, but then they must lodge a complaint. And I predict to you, as with the King, that almost no politician will. If I may, I would also like to respond to what Mrs Buitenweg asked: should we, as politicians and civil servants, be more pleased? I fully agree with you, Mrs Buitenweg, but that is precisely in the three-stage approach to insulting. In the second stage, in the social debate, I shall just say that we are politicians and that we may indeed need to have a thicker skin than Aunt Mien from the Takkenstraat, who also opens her mouth. But it can't be that we're completely unprotected and we ask people to be councilmen and then they really have to be made up for everything? Of course there is Article 266, but if you are offended and have to file a complaint, then you and I know how the whole city, the whole village, is going to express an opinion on that. That is the protection that I believe we should offer, especially with the forthcoming elections, to council members and others. Mr. Chairman. Let me sum it up. The CDA is opposed to the abolition of the separate criminalisation of majesty desecration. This article, in this special place in the Code of Criminal Law, marks the importance of the King's dignity, not a private interest. Do not make a complaint compulsory, because under ministerial responsibility it will not quickly arrive at a complaint. We want to take part in the debate on the moderation of penalties and the re-evaluation of the additional penalties. We will not stand in the way of abolishing Article 118 and Article 267 (3) aimed at those foreign Heads of State or Government. It does not deserve the beauty prize, but we will not oppose it. We are opposed to the amendment of Article 267 in the sense that large groups of private aid workers should complain if they wish to be prosecuted in this respect. The CDA Group very much hopes that the petitioner will see room to amend his proposal in this respect. It would also be wise not to impose the complaint requirement on directors and representatives of the people. I should like to thank you for your attention and to wish you every success in answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u57	Maybe I can also thank Mr Van Dam for sharing his expertise from his previous life here with us. If I have understood him correctly, he does believe that there is room for a reduction in the penalty rate. Those five years are way too much. That's what I said. I actually hear him say that. He says: it is also very important that the King should not make a complaint himself. That's what we agree on, I think. Then there is the point that the King doesn't have to have experienced the insult himself. He doesn't even have to have heard it himself, but sometimes there are people who say things that really can't. Then we don't have to tell the King before it gets bad. That is what Mr Van Dam thinks, if I understand correctly. Now the amendment tabled by Mrs Kuik and I also states that the King does not have to have experienced it himself. Does Mr Van Dam see this as the important point with me? And can we not rise above the question of whether it is in this article or in that article and simply look together for a practical solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u58	I think that, in practice, we may be able to get a long way together, but our Code of Criminal Law is not a punk node where you can easily tie a knot to the left or the right. Our Code of Criminal Law has a structure, a classification, and one chapter is not the other. What you are doing, and doing fairly opportunistically, because I have already pointed out a certain fact that you are not in it, is this: you take that insult from the head of state from Title 2. Again, Title 2 is not about personal insult, but about the dignity of the Head of State. Of course there is a connection between that, because if our King, I shall say it on Prince's Day, sits in a swimsuit in the golden carriage, then his personal appearance does indeed undermine the dignity of the head of state. Of course, there's a connection. But the touchstone, the criterion that matters, is not that personal insult. If you transfer that article from Title 2 to Title 16, you may not realize it yourself, but then you will fundamentally change the character of that article. And I'm resisting that. I really don't get it and I repeat: I really don't understand why the VVD Group wouldn't be willing to talk to us about maintaining Article 111 and talking to D66... I read Trouw this morning and let me tell you that I read Trouw every morning, but today there was an interview with Mr Verhoeven and he also said: I am mainly concerned with that five-year sentence, that it goes down. And Mr Verhoeven...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u59	He can't say anything yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u60	No, you're right, Mr. Chairman, excuse me. But that's the point! If we move overnight that article to another part of the Code of Criminal Law, we'll do more harm than you're aware of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u61	I do not regard it as an insult to Mr Van Dam to put me away as an opportunist. That's his right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u62	I'm not a criminal here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u63	It is, of course, completely unjustified, but it is his right to do so. What matters to me is that we are here looking for a way. I think I find Mr Van Dam there next to me to protect the King, and not with five years in prison. It's just that he doesn't have to report himself and that he doesn't have to have heard that insult himself before it's bad. If we agree on this together, I think we can find a practical, pragmatic solution, regardless of whether the title is this or the article. Together, practically, because ultimately it's about those servants of the public interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u64	I think that the VVD suffers from statements made in the past about this article, especially in the light of the abolition of insulting a foreign head of state. However, Mr Koopmans, I am also saying this to the VVD Group as a whole, because you are making the character of this fact completely different. Once again, if you put it to Rule 267, it is more than in Article 111, as it is now, about the personal insult of people, and we should not want that. I am not going to explain that again, because then the President would quite rightly say to me: you repeat yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u65	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Let me also begin by congratulating and thanking the initiator for drafting the legislative proposal before us. This debate tonight is not about whether or not we are in favour of our royal family. This debate is hardly about freedom of expression. As far as freedom of expression is concerned, the PVV stands for the greatest possible freedom of expression for all Dutch people. Everyone must be able to express their opinion without fear of persecution. Opinions should not be criminalised. In an open, free society you have to be able to say what you want and at the same time you have to be able to take criticism. In a society in which one is free to distribute, one should also be able to collect occasionally. Even if this is perceived as hurtful. As far as PVV is concerned, the border lies with the inciting of violence. What this debate is all about tonight is the following. There is a ban in the Netherlands, and it has already been said by several previous speakers on the deliberate insult of persons. It's a so-called complaint charge, which means whoever feels offended can file a complaint. The prosecution may then decide to proceed to prosecution. The maximum sentence is three months in prison. Now it is true that when you insult a police officer, for example, you can add a penalty of exactly a third, and when you insult the King or a friendly head of state, you can even go to jail for five years. Those so-called sentences on the single insult are removed from the law with this bill. My group believes that this is a good thing. In addition, the initiator proposes to delete the penalty-aggravating element when insulting, for example, a mayor or politicians and public institutions. That, too, is a good idea for my group. The present proposal retains categories which, in the event of insult, are particularly protected by increased penalties. For example, if you insult a police officer or a military officer, you still have a chance to raise that aforementioned sentence by a third. I therefore believe that a justified question to the initiator is why he is perhaps already asking that question by previous speakers in a different way, rather than giving the King that extra protection. An amendment by the VVD'er Koopmans aims to fix this omission. I would like to hear the reaction of the author on this point. The D66 Group, the author of the motion for a resolution, cannot but serve its own supporters well in this legislative proposal. The petitioner makes a great deal of effort to provide the judges with this additional protection. The King doesn't, the judges do. My group does not find that very sympathetic and that is why we have just tabled an amendment which regulates the need for judges, like politicians for example, to get a bit thicker skin. No additional protection structures for the judicial power. Not even for us, the legislative power, not for them either. Judges interfere in the public debate, so equal to us, MPs, and like almost everyone else in the Netherlands, they must also be able to take a hit. Now the figure of the friendly head of state. The initiator rightly wants to delete Articles 118 and 119 of the Code of Criminal Law. Friends of the Heads of State should not be extra protected in terms of insult. The PVV, like the initiator of this additional protection for friendly heads of state, wants to get rid of it. We do not want light-headed foreign leaders to be able to undermine Dutch freedom of expression through the courts. I would like to ask the author whether he sees any possibility of restricting the right of friendly Heads of State to invoke Article 266, the single insult. In this context, I would like to point out, and to this I ask for a response from the author and the Minister, that non-friendly Heads of State or possibly even all non-Dutch people can invoke Article 266. I'd like the opinion of the petitioner and the minister. Does the applicant see any possibility of regulating that in future only the residents of the Netherlands may invoke Article 266 of the Code of Criminal Law? One more technical question. As stated, Article 266 is a complaint offence. I understand from previous speakers that the prosecution may also be able to make an independent declaration. I can't find that in the law, but perhaps the petitioner can help me a little. Therefore, this question, which may be unjustified, but which I am nevertheless asking: how does the initiator ensure that the prosecution can also proceed independently if the police or the Public Prosecutor observe an insult under Article 267 of the Criminal Code? Why does the King or the military have to report the insult themselves? Can the Public Prosecutor not prosecute those categories independently if your bill is passed? On this point I would like a reply from the author and also from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u67	Last question, Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u68	I thought two more, Mr. Chairman, but you'd have counted better. Can Mr. Markuszower explain on the basis of which he concludes that judges are interfering in the public debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u69	First of all, by making statements. They're public. That's the public debate. Let this also be an invitation from me that they will be more involved in that public debate. As you know, I am strongly in favour of judges being elected every four years. I have tabled a motion for that too. I do not think that your group has supported them after a long doubt. But if judges were elected, they would have to be elected every four years. That is an excellent time when they must intervene in that public debate, otherwise it would be very difficult for them to be elected. So that's where it fits in. In that context, I am reasonably consistent. As long as these elections are not yet organised, as long as that motion is not yet adopted by this Chamber and is not yet made law, judges may intervene in the public debate. I think they are not doing enough right now, but their statements make them part of the public debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u70	You're right: one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u71	Then I conclude that Mr Markuszower believes that judges participate in the public debate through their verdicts, which they do not do; they only speak through their judgments, but that he would like to deny judges the extra protection, coupled with an invitation to do so. I really can't tie a rope to it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u72	I believe that judges, if they make good judgments through their judgment and those who publicly defend themselves, will find themselves more protected. I believe that there is now a great deal of incomprehension about some judgments. I think it would do the judiciary good if they were to defend those judgments themselves in the public debate. And I invite them every day. Thank you. Good luck with the answer and the further trajectory of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u73	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u74	Madam President. First of all, a warm word of appreciation; I sincerely believe that. Now Mr Verhoeven should not laugh a bit shy. It is a sincere word of appreciation for the initiative he has taken and for the time he has put into it. Apparently, he thinks it's an important subject. His wallet is getting wider. But seriously, there's a lot of work in it and I know it takes a lot of time. I thank him for the effort he has put into this. D66 wants to get rid of the ban on majesty desecration. That's clear. That also fits very well in the tradition of majesty stone that D66 regularly kicks. Once in a while, a royal subject comes up, and this time it's majesty desecration. The effort is therefore genuinely appreciated, but with the content of the report, which Mr Verhoeven clearly understands, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has a little more difficulty. Moreover, it is touching that Mr Van Raak is concerned about cohesion within the coalition. I really like it. But you do want to connect left and right, and if the left wants to make an effort to keep the coalition together in particular, then I can reassure him. The coalition will certainly not break up on this point, although we may be voting differently. Madam President. Before going to the three topics, I would like to add my voice to Mr Van Dam's question on the consultation. I also noticed that the Public Prosecutor's Office has not been asked for advice. But this also affects the position of civil servants. So it would be very good to ask their representatives. It is in line with the democratic tradition of D66 to draw it a little wider, to get input from others in society and perhaps to be contradicted. It's part of a proper preparation of a law that you'll also let yourself contradict and ask for input. So my warm encouragement to consider that again between now and the first deadline of the author.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u75	Before you continue, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u76	I was focusing on the SP's concerns about the coalition. I don't have that kind of concern either. But I was still browsing the coalition chord for a while. It says that we have to keep certain provisions on insult in it and that sometimes even something needs to be added. Why didn't ChristianUnion and CDA also manage to maintain this article on majesty desecration in the coalition agreement? Because also the Christian Union and the CDA think this is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u77	Sometimes you make an assessment at the table and then you say, as the Prime Minister would say, "bad political feeling" that you don't come together entirely. At this point, it was estimated that this might indeed be very difficult. Then we decided to leave that to the free forces of the Chamber. With the strength of arguments, Mr Van Dam has just made a glowing argument................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u78	I understand, therefore, that there is still good hope that a majority in the Chamber can be convinced of this with the strength of the arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u79	It's possible. Then there is the First Chamber, where even more thoughtfulness is judged. So Mr Verhoeven is not here yet. We're gonna see. Step by step, we're going through this process. Madam President. There are three elements: the position of the King, friendly heads of state, and public institutions and ministers. The author of the bill proposes to delete the special protection which grants the Code of Criminal Law in the event of deliberate insult to the King, for example. The result of this proposal is, among other things, that an official will be given more protection than the King. That may fit in with a certain tradition, but that surprises me. Where the Netherlands has become increasingly divided, the royal house is an important symbol of unity and solidarity. It connects us with our common past and connects us. Therefore, according to the Christian Union Group, the royal family is a blessing. The Council of State also states that the King, as a special symbol of the national community, plays an important role. In my opinion, Mr Van Dam mentioned the quote: "Right at a time when views of the State and philosophical and cultural backgrounds differ, common polite values and standards become more important. This applies a fortiori to the King as a special symbol of the national community." I'd like to join in on that. It is precisely in this important role of the Institute of the Royal House that there is a need to be careful with its members. The proposal to abolish the King's special protection as a whole is contrary to that. I don't understand why it's necessary either. What's the urgency? I'd like to hear that from the petitioner. At least we do not see that urgency. In fact, we believe it is important to maintain this special protection. That is why, together with the CDA and SGP groups, we have tabled an amendment to allow the royal family to retain this special protection. Could the petitioner outline the procedure for the King, if he makes the complaint? How does the author propose to do that? Is that indeed a physical report, or is that otherwise a report? Do you want the King to go to court? Should he hire a lawyer? Sketch that whole process of how the King can defend himself if he's offended. Madam President. Then there is the second point: friendly heads of state. The applicant also proposes to delete the special provision concerning insulting a friendly Head of State. This does not mean that intentional insult is impunity, but that prosecution requires a complaint from the victim. I feel, for example, that, in view of recent history, different colleagues have already referred to Erdogan and to what has happened in Germany, I do feel sympathy for this part. At the same time, I would like to hear from the Minister how he appreciates this. Madam President. Thirdly, public institutions and ministers. Special protection in the form of increased penalties for officials in office shall be limited. This means that people's representatives, ministers, state secretarys, the National Ombudsman, but also people's representatives in municipal councils, for example, will be deprived of special protection. I would like to ask the author about the ratio behind this. Is he not making a mistake here because of the protection of individuals, who must be able to do so, I agree with him; I too must be able to confuse with the protection of institutions and offices that are important for the proper functioning of the government? So it is not about protecting myself, but about protecting, for example, the office of representative of the people. The introduction of a complaint requirement for public institutions and officials really raises questions for my group. The Council of State is also questioning this. In the case of insulting public authorities in function, the emphasis is not on protecting the person of the authority itself, but on protecting the public offices and, consequently, on the importance of the proper functioning of the government. And the good functioning of the government is under pressure, so that makes the questions I ask even more intrusive. In fact, I would like to say the opposite: precisely at a time when interwovenness between the underworld and the upper world is lurking, it is becoming increasingly difficult to recruit good council members and threats to mayors are getting more and more news, this protection is in place. Then why does the applicant choose to reduce that protection? Isn't that the wrong signal at the wrong time? The petitioner also narrows the circle of persons covered by the term "official." What does this mean for the conductor who gets offended? What does this mean for the ambulance staff working at a private company? Are they no longer protected by a preventive effect of an increased penalty? Is that the signal the petitioner wants to send? I would like to clarify this point. Madam President. My group is far from convinced of the usefulness and necessity of this legislative proposal, but we are looking forward to the reply of the author. We look forward to the continuation of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u80	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u81	Thank you, Madam President. I now have a page with so much on it that I hope I can treat everything coherently, but of course many of my points have already been touched by colleagues. I think it would be better to respond to that than to make a whole speech. In response to Mr Markuszower, I would like to say that, as far as I am concerned, it is about freedom of expression, at least the principles, because we are discussing them with each other, although there are not so many matters in the area of majesty desecration every year. It is the principle that people should be able to express out loud what they find, especially in relation to government institutions, which nevertheless have a special dominant position. The power must be able to be criticized. I would like to thank the author, Mr Verhoeven, very much. He's sitting there with a beautiful king's blue tie. My thanks, unlike some, are not a stinker for the effort but a sincere thank you for setting up and working out this idea. Thank you for including an amendment to the previous proposal. At least it now states explicitly that judges must also have protection. I think that is right, because I am also saying this in the direction of Mr Markuszower's judges cannot protect themselves at the moment. Judges have a judgment in a particular case and are not going to motivate that judgment extensively. There is a special press judge who explains, but it is not up to the judges themselves to interfere fully in the public debate. They cannot protect themselves and should therefore be protected by the government, which has entrusted them with a task.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u82	Does Mrs Buitenweg agree with me that formal judges do not stand in the way of explaining their own judgments? Is she familiar with television programmes such as Watching in the Soul in which judges have extensively motivated cases, including their own? So it is not a figure of imagination that I am describing, it is real and it is actually happening that judges have discussed their own judgments and judgments of fellow judges in the public debate, on TV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u83	When people tell things on television, they can be quietly addressed, but I do not think they usually answer for a specific verdict and do not tell the ins and outs of a particular verdict. If they are offended, they must be protected. That is what I think is happening, and that is why I think it is logical that Mr Verhoeven has taken the step to include it in this proposal. Who is now covered by the category of civil servants who need additional protection? I read in Mr Koopmans' and Mrs Kuik's amendment that politicians and ministers should also be included. We've just had a brief talk about that. I find that difficult to reconcile with the European Court of Human Rights. I listened to what Mr Van Dam said. He says: in the end there are all kinds of checks-and-balances built in, so it often doesn't come to prosecution. But it's not just about that. Of course, there is a certain chilling effect. If there's a law that says this is extra criminal, it has a normative effect. There's a frightening effect. The whole idea of recording that extra increase in punishment is also that there is a deterrent effect. That is also what we want to make clear to people. We want to make it clear to people that they should not act insultingly against police, ambulance personnel, firefighters. This terrifying effect is important, but that is precisely what I do not want for politicians. I do not want people to say: we are only holding back what we say to politicians or ministers, because the law says that we are risking an extra penalty for this. It is precisely because of this terrifying effect that I say that this does not make any sense. It is logical that this protection should be granted to officials to whom we assign certain tasks, who sit face to face with people and who cannot so easily defend themselves publicly. For us, this deterrent effect is not necessary and even counterproductive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u84	Does Mrs Buitenweg really think that when it comes to gross insults? So we are not talking about political positions. We all know that's what's happening to us. Do you really think that because we hold this public office... No, I don't even want to involve it on myself: does she think that council members, who do that besides their work, should not have extra protection? That is a public interest, apart from the lack of that complaint requirement. I really can't follow you in that, because I'm talking to Mr Van Staaij after.I don't feel that now in the Netherlands everyone is shuddering in his bed thinking: oh, gos, I can't say anything, because before you know it, the government locks me away for years. I thought we were done with Domela.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u85	But it's also about the system. I have also listened carefully to Mr Segers of the Christian Union's comment on the protection that council members need. I think so too, especially in the case of undermining, which occurs in certain municipalities. I often have the feeling that physical protection is mostly necessary. If you are seriously offended, you can of course report it yourself. In the case of serious insults, when things get really out of hand, when people feel threatened, that is, of course, also a task for the government. This is what I'm talking about. In the case of ordinary insults, a complaint can now be made on our behalf, while I believe that we, as politicians in the public domain, should also be able to collect the necessary amounts. I am in favour of special protection for civil servants, for judges, for police officers, for paramedics, but I do not need any additional protection for us in relation to the protection enjoyed by ordinary citizens in the public debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u86	Well, here's the thing. I have an alderman, a mayor or a councilman in mind standing in front of a hall full of people who are angry, for example, because of the arrival of an azc. Those are brave people who stand there on behalf of the community and get everything thrown to their heads. That's right, you gotta take a punch. You really have to have a thick skin and you'll develop it if you're in politics long enough, so you'll be fine. But there may be a moment when it is even more vulnerable if the person himself has to take that step and say: now I am really offended. That makes him extra vulnerable, while we can also say: it is really about the office, it is really about the position that someone is fulfilling and it is the position in which he is standing in front of that room that needs protection, because you would stand there. reflective: isn't that a consideration that could still be relevant to the GroenLinks Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u87	I understand very well what you're saying. I also sympathize, because I know all those rooms in Amsterdam. I also see people struggling there to express their views in consultation with citizens. There will be a lot of rebuttal and that is certainly not always pleasant. So I sympathise, and I also recognize the threatening atmosphere that can come from that. Your point is quite right, but there is another point, namely that you are going to have a debate. You are going to have a debate not only with colleagues here, but also with colleagues outside the Chamber. Sometimes there is also an uneven playing field. In addition to the inequality you are now describing, there is also inequality if you do offer that extra protection. That is the inequality between politicians who debate with citizens, where they get an extra protection and the other one doesn't. It is a choice, and I choose not to give extra protection to politicians who can protect themselves publicly vis-à-vis citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u88	It is not a question of needing additional protection, but rather of ensuring that they are protected and able to function in such a way as to serve the general interest and the public interest. Last week there was an issue in Drenthe, where a deputy stands for the installation of windmills. This gave him a caricature or a cartoon, in which he was depicted as some sort of Nazi executioner. If he has to go after that one more time himself, that's throwing oil on the fire. If he is protected in that position, because of the difficult decision he has to make, and protected by others, it makes him more powerful. It is a point of consideration which I would like to put to the House. I see that Mrs Buitenweg wants to take that into consideration. It's about the public domain and the office. It's not about delicate souls or long toes, because I'm not so interested in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u89	That's true. I would like to consider another point, for example for this person who is depicted as a windmill Nazi, if I understand you correctly. For this person it is decided that it will be prosecuted. That may be uncomfortable for that person, because it is very public how it is depicted. If this is not required, it may also be that such a person is not prosecuted, so that much less public awareness is given to it. I think that a requirement that you yourself should file that complaint can provide protection, especially for public figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u90	I'd still like to clarify how things are going. People are gonna have to report it themselves anyway. We're talking about that complaint. If someone does not press charges or if no one is reported by the province of Drenthe on behalf of someone, and so on, then there will be no swift prosecution. The essential element here is the complaint. Since Mr Markuszower also asked how that is going, I think it is good that we know how it is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u91	My main point, as I have just said, is that the purpose of this law is to have a deterrent effect, so you want to ensure that people behave with restraint. That's what we're supposed to do, and that's what we want. We want people not to speak in ominous terms to people from the police, the fire department or the ambulances, so a reluctant effect. And that clashes with the debate that we do want and which we, as politicians, must be completely open about. It's that mix I'm unhappy about. I do not think that we, as politicians, should be on the same lines as aid workers or civil servants. Let us acknowledge that we have a different role, as the European Court of Human Rights has always said. In this respect, I say that civil servants and aid workers need additional protection, but we as politicians do not. As far as I am concerned, this includes political leaders. As far as I am concerned, this extra resilience I expect from us also applies to the whole category of public bodies. I read that in Mr Verhoeven's proposal, but I saw that in an amendment tabled by Mrs Kuik and Mr Koopmans, public authority and public bodies are put back in Article 267. Then I think: is our democracy really so fragile that people are not allowed to speak harshly about Parliament, for example? Mr Van Dam said that the monarchy is really worth protecting. I'm sure that's what this Parliament is. But that doesn't mean that we can't catch a very strong headwind. I think it should be protected in the discussion with each other and not by an increase in the penalty in an article, so as far as I am concerned, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is following Mr Verhoeven's proposal. I have noticed, however, that it is difficult to get the list of officials to work properly. I have already informed Mr Verhoeven of this. It seems that, certainly by taking out those political ministers, there will be some sort of exception to an exception, which does not make it too clear who is being protected, for example ambulance staff. I ask him if he can give a precise list of which people would be protected and who would have a public task and would not be protected. I find it striking that no one in this house has any additional protection for the Heads of State or Government who are friends. With us neither as GroenLinks, but also with Mr Koopman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u92	"Koopmans" with an s.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u93	"Koopmans," that's what it says here. This could lead to the particular situation that demonstrators who want to be heard on a state banquet where both King Willem-Alexander and President Putin are present should think very carefully about who they are pointing their plates at. I would like to hear from the author of the legislative proposal and also from the Minister whether they find such a difference, which now seems to arise in view of the majority in this Parliament, to be justified, both in the system of our system and in the diplomatic relations. Finally, the complaint requirement. We have talked about this a lot. The question before us is whether the King himself should press charges. Well, the good news is, as we've already noticed with each other, he can do it. At various times, the King has filed a complaint against people or against magazines, for example. He also didn't ride his bike to the police station. The Royal House is an institution and an institution can also report it. The King can command someone. The same applies to Parliament. I have said that, as far as I am concerned, Parliament cannot have extra protection as an institution, but if there was a problem, I can imagine that the President could also authorise someone to go to the police station. I think you should paint it more in that situation. In addition, there is civil law, and there the King knows how to ward off himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u94	It's not quite clear yet. Does Mrs Buitenweg think that the King should enjoy less protection than an official?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u95	I believe that the King deserves as much protection as the Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u96	Parliament is not something that goes to the police station as such. That was obviously very nice, but I don't think we're gonna do that. The point is that in Mr Verhoeven's proposal there is still the category of servants of the public. However you define it, Madam President, Mrs Buitenweg's or mine's way, that category will continue to exist. People who serve the public interest. Does Mrs Buitenweg now say that the King does not belong to the category of people who serve the public interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u97	No. You heard me right. I do not think that we, as political ministers, deserve extra protection. I'm saying emergency workers get extra protection. As politicians and political leaders, we do not get them as far as I am concerned. The King is one of them. He can be protected through ministerial responsibility. As far as I'm concerned, the King gets the same protection we get as politicians. That is therefore a lower level of protection than for aid workers. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u98	Mr Van Dam, one last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u99	Yes, your accounting is mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u100	Yeah, I'll keep track.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u101	I hear Mrs Buitenweg say that the King must be protected in the same way as Parliament. Now it is true that in Title II, i.e. in the front of the code, also parliament on a number of protection things, such as disrupting the meeting, detonating the building and more of that kind of thing...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u102	GroenLinks is not in favour of the King exploding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u103	If you say here that you want to give the King the same protection as Parliament, would it not be logical for you to keep that insult of the King in the same part of the code of conduct as where the parliament is now protected? May I infer from this that you would be willing to think about it, perhaps with a return of the sentence and other things?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u104	What I wanted to report is that I think the King's position is an institution of power. It's not about the person. It's an institution. We need to be able to debate what we think of that. The King must also be resilient or the institution of King must be resilient, as must parliament. That chilling effect doesn't fit in with the restraint that you introduce by establishing in a law that a heavy penalty is imposed on insulting someone. That's what I wanted to say. I believe that this additional protection belongs to the people we are giving to carry out without being able to protect themselves. But we as political ministers can protect ourselves, and also the King, through the ministers, can protect himself. I do not think that we should put ourselves in a better position, but that the focus should be on the protection we provide to the police, to the emergency services, to the paramedics. I have only asked the author to clarify these categories a little bit. I think we can handle that very well ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u105	Finally, Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u106	You're not putting the King in a better position. You're putting the King in a worse position with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u107	No, not in a worse position than you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u108	I am really and seriously asking Mrs Buitenweg. The Ombudsman, who does a good job and gives his opinion on everything for his work on our behalf, wants to protect you. The King, who does good work on behalf of all of us, will not protect you. The Ombudsman gives his opinion; that is his appeal. The King does not give his opinion; in his professional description it is stated that he does not give his opinion, except in the speech of the throne. The King is not here to express his opinion everywhere. The Ombudsman does. You say we're going to protect the Ombudsman, but not the King. Are you serious?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u109	You say the King doesn't give his opinion because it's an institution. I agree. It is that institution that needs to be criticized. And that is something we must be able to say to each other: do we want the monarchy or do we not want it? That can sometimes go in harsh words. That is indeed a very different function from that of the Ombudsman. So, I agree with you that it is a completely different function. But the King isn't just the man. The institute must be able to be discussed. That's gotta be resilient, too. Mr Van Dam expressed a number of words from people who had protested against the monarchy. I don't have to repeat any of that here. Of course, that wasn't about the person himself, it was about the institution. And yes, I think that we should discuss this quite freely. That can be quite rough from time to time, but I think that the institutions we have in the Netherlands have really evolved a little further since 1881. The Netherlands is not so fragile and we can handle an institutional discussion without fearing the collapse of the whole house of cards in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u110	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just had to smile at Mr Koopman's remark: go to the police station with the whole parliament. If you listen to some parliamentarians and see how quickly they are hurt, you would almost get the idea that it might be wise to set up an annex from the police station here in the Lower House. Mr. Chairman. On my behalf, too, I would like to thank the initiator and his support for writing this initiative law. It will be no surprise to you that D66 is in favour of this proposal. It was nice to see that the debate in the various media had already burst before the debate in this Chamber. "The coalition is steggling," I read somewhere. The Newspaper of Wake The Netherlands even talked about fighting in the coalition. Yes, Mr. Chairman, it is true that we do not always agree in this coalition. And I think that's very healthy, too. But let us at least disagree today on the basis of the facts and let us not argue about incorrect information. That is why I would like to begin by clarifying a number of misunderstandings. That's how I read, and I heard today, that the King should report it on the bike and that we should in future be allowed to insult aid workers with impunity. Those are all misunderstandings. I'll get back to you on that. For for the public and for ourselves, it is essential, as far as I am concerned, that we have a pure discussion, on the basis of the facts and on the basis of what is and what is not in this bill. First of all, the special sentence for insulting the King is deleted. The disproportionately high sentence of up to five years in prison, a fine and possible loss of voting rights disappears. The same applies to the insult of friendly heads of state, currently subject to a maximum of two years' imprisonment and a fine. Thirdly, the proposal aims to adapt the group of posts and officials protected by Article 267, the additional protection, as has already been mentioned a few times. This removes public institutions, public authority, public institution, politicians and directors. Which brings me to the first misunderstanding. Here and there it has been suggested that the additional protection that officials now have, for example a police officer, is also being deleted. That is not the case. This proposal refers only to directors and politicians, for whom this additional protection will lapse. Then there could be confusion, for example about train conductors. At the moment, lead conductors are extraordinary investigators, so civil servants. For that group, therefore, nothing changes with this law, because for them the additional protection of the aforementioned Article 267 will continue to exist. For the ordinary conductors, they are not already civil servants. They are therefore completely outside the scope of this legislative proposal. So nothing changes for them either. Of course, insult remains punishable for them on the basis of the basic article, Article 266 of the Code of Criminal Law. I would like to hear from the initiator or my reasoning and my reading of the bill are correct and consistent with the purpose he is aiming for. I would also like to hear from the Minister how insults to, for example, aid workers and other non-officials, which several Members of Parliament have rightly expressed concern about, have been dealt with in, for example, the directions of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the points of reference of justice, so that this additional protection can be met. Mr President, I come to the second misunderstanding. Also for D66, insult is not the norm and it never will be. So for the groups I just mentioned, directors and politicians, too, the existing offense of Article 266 continues to exist. Only the extra penalty which applies to insulting those groups is now deleted, at least, in the initiator's proposal. The third misunderstanding, chairman: the King on a bike. It has already happened before, I think Mr Koopmans also mentioned it, and I would like to take away the image that the King must go to the police station on his bike in future to report it. Of course, this has been whispered to me by the spokesperson Sport.......................................................................................................................................................... As the law states and remains standing, anyone, including the King, can authorize someone to press charges on his behalf and file a complaint. He can also do it in writing. I see Mr Van Dam shaking no, but it really is, Mr Van Dam. Mr President, that brings me to the last misunderstanding, which, among other things, concerns the Prime Minister, namely that the King cannot publicly defend himself. I wonder if that concern is justified. I understand the ministerial responsibility for the King in such a way that the Prime Minister can defend the King. Does the initiator agree with me? If so, can he work it out further? Is it true, as I ask the initiator, that this law does not really change the fact that the King can also employ the National Information Service? He did so when he was unjustly accused of not giving priority in traffic. As far as I am concerned, but I ask the initiator, it does not change the King's ability to initiate civil proceedings, as he has done on a regular basis, for example when it comes to publishing photos of his daughters in the media. On that point, I would like a response from the initiator. Mr President, so much for the misunderstandings. As far as I am concerned, we are going back to the substance of the proposal. Since 1966, D66 has been a champion of freedom of expression. Previously, my party removed articles of law that unjustly restricted freedom of expression, such as the ban on blasphemy. Is that freedom of speech unlimited? No, of course not. We live in a decent country and insulting is not the norm. Freedom of expression is a right, but does not give anyone the unlimited opportunity to insult other people. I therefore believe that this proposal is not about insulting but about equality and freedom of expression. As for D66, every man is equal before the law. The reason for punishing certain people in society more severely than insulting other people must be serious, precisely in view of the importance of that freedom of expression. As far as I am concerned, this applies, for example, to police officers or judges, who, given their function, deserve additional protection from criminal law. For example, judges can only defend themselves by giving a judgment and police officers carry out their duties on behalf of the State and often act literally in the line of fire in order to uphold the right for the sake of society. In addition, they are not affected on the streets in their authority by insults. As far as D66 is concerned, this additional protection does not apply to the King, friendly heads of state, directors, politicians, public institutions, public authority in general and public institutions. That's why the initiator wants to change the law. Let me be clear: the draft law does not seek to make the insult of the King, his friends, the heads of state and other authorities completely unpunished. The insults that apply to everyone, such as defamation and defamation and simple insult, simply persist. The criminal law still has a function in this respect. However, as far as I am concerned, the additional threat of punishment for insulting those categories runs counter to the principle that, in a democratic rule of law, everyone is equal to the law, unless there are very good reasons to see it differently. Those additional provisions are therefore not necessary with regard to D66. I look at Mr Koopmans to see if he comes to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u112	That was an invitation. Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u113	I wouldn't dare resist such a proposal. It's a very serious question. Is it true that Mr Grothuizen here says that officials, the Ombudsman, should be protected, but that the King should not be protected? If there is a very broad feeling that we should have a little more respect for the King, for the institute, that we do not have that complaint requirement, is it not true that we can discuss it here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u114	Of course, we always discuss everything and I also listen to all your comments. However, I still believe that I am going to think about it for a longer period of time, and that there is a clear difference, which I have tried to explain earlier, between general functions such as the kingship, an alderman, a politician, a director on the one hand, and officials who are more directly on the street, at the counter or as judges in court on the other hand. I see a distinctly different role in that. Mr. Chairman. D66 is not alone in this view. It is now established case-law of the European Court of Human Rights that public individuals should be more well-off in general than any private person. The freedom of political debate is the essence of a democratic society. It is precisely politicians and rulers, including heads of state, but also directors, who should be able to tolerate criticism more than a private person. As far as I am concerned, the additional protection we have in the current criminal law is clearly contrary to that. In addition, this bill fits in with the idea of a modern kingship. When the Dutch Code of Criminal Law was designed in the 19th century, the state was still the King in the first place, but that role has changed considerably over the last 150 years. The King may still have a binding and symbolic function, but the King is no longer the State. "L'état, c'est moi," to quote Louis XIV, we no longer know with our modern ceremonial kingship. In fact, with this proposal, we give the King himself more power. He can now decide for himself when he feels that he is offended instead of others doing it for him. Mr. Chairman. The offences we are talking about today, contrary to what some people may think and have been expressed a few times here, are not a dead letter in the law. People have been actively detained in recent years on the basis of the article. It is striking, however, that these cases hardly lead to prosecution or trial. This gives the impression that my question to the initiator is that this penalty provision is sometimes abused, because this kind of detention took place mainly at demonstrations. Could the initiator go into this and possibly give examples? Finally, I would like to ask whether the initiator can explain whether he believes that this will change any abuse with the entry into force of his law, should it come to that. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the friendly heads of state. For them too, the additional offence for insult is removed. In many cases, public or political debate is the reason for criticizing those friendly heads of state. The definition of "friend" is rather spacious anyway. That is, in fact, every foreign power with which the Netherlands is not involved in an armed conflict and there are quite a few. These are also very many not so decent democracies. With regard to D66, these are also public figures for whom freedom of expression should not be restricted by such special criminal acts. Germany decided last summer to remove a similar article from the German penal code, following the Böhmermann affair, that comedian who insulted Turkish President Erdogan. As far as D66 is concerned, we are following this German example. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. This proposal affects the fundamental aspects of our democratic rule of law. These are freedom of expression, equality before the law, norms and values. With this law, D66 does justice to one of its priorities: to counter unnecessary restrictions on freedom of expression. I hope that I have convinced you and the House of the importance of this bill and wish my colleague every success in answering the many questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Grothuizen. Finally, Mrs Ploumen has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u116	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate and congratulate Mr Verhoeven on presenting, drawing up and defending this legislative initiative. The rest of my speech remains fairly complimentary, I'm sure. Since I myself have been working on an initiative proposal for equal pay for equal work for women and men, I know how much work that is. So my thanks have only increased over the last few months. Should the PvdA Group have made a list of priorities, it would not have been on one for our group. That makes us even more grateful that this was the case for D66. And you can already hear it, Mr President: the scope of the bill is supported by the Labour Party. Colleagues have already said that the ban on majesty desecration dates back to 1881. There wasn't even a woman's right back then. So you can figure out how long ago that was. So it's not so weird that there's going to be a moment to reconsider that and turn it off against the signs of time, you might say. Others have already said it in the context of the proposal for an initiative: the initiator does not intend to make the insulting of the King, the friendly heads of state and other authorities completely impunity, but in our view he is trying to frame it in a different, more modern time. We believe with the initiator that Dutch legislation provides sufficient security and protection for everyone against insult and slander. The same goes for the King. And five years in prison for insulting the King is quite a lot. So that's why we have our support. We do have a few questions. I have followed the debate between the various Members carefully, and I also welcome the fact that the process of the proposal is such that we have been able to listen to each other, that we can debate it, that we will have the answers from the initiator and the government later and that we can then consider it. When it comes to the question of who is actually covered by the legislative proposal, the debate between Mr Segers and Mr Buitenweg outlined both principles. The Labour Party has chosen to follow more Mr Segers' line in this case. High trees catch a lot of wind. That's not a big deal either. That's what they're for. But at the same time they deserve extra protection if that wind is very spooky. I refer to the words of Mr Segers, who also specifically said: it is mainly about the office that needs to be protected. That would for the time being, having heard everyone, also be the line of the PvdA. But I would also very much like to hear the comments made by the author of his proposal on which ministers, which groups are now and are not covered by it. Has he, as Mrs Buitenweg suggests, simply followed the case law that exists in Europe? Or is there another consideration? The second question has also been raised before. This concerns the question of the King and the bike; I will just summarize it. Mr Grothuizen says: clear, the King does not have to ride the bike. But I would also like to hear from the author himself how this is done. Can we trust that the King doesn't have to report himself, but that others can do that for him? That is the second question we would like to put to the author. We look forward to the answers to our questions and look forward to continuing the debate with colleagues. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u117	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. This was the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-9.u118	I have already said at the beginning that the follow-up will take place at a different time. Of course, this is determined in consultation with the initiator. I thank the Members of Parliament. Of course, I would also like to thank the initiator, the Minister for Justice and Security, the support and the staff. I'd say everybody at home. We'll move on next week.
