ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-eerstekamer-11.u1	The next item is the goodbye to the Registrar of the First Chamber of the States General, Mr G.J.A. Hamilton. I give the floor to Mr Thissen, former Member of this Chamber. Cool, you got the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-eerstekamer-11.u2	Madam Chairman, dear Ankie. Mr. Warrior, dear Geert Jan. Members of the Senate, partly former colleague and perhaps best future members of the Society of Old Senators. I'll take you back in time. School year 1969-1970. Bishop of Schöndeln College in Roermond. In September 1969 a boy of 12 just exchanged shorts for a long, a fixed and certainly too heavy bag with school books and started his junior class. Thanks to Roermondenaar Jo Cals, he entered the secondary school system according to the Mammoetwet. As everywhere in the Netherlands there were also four school years of gymnasium and hbs old style. I believe that the final exams of old style took place in 1974 with so-called broom classes. All right, back to 1969, the start of the school year. That 12-year-old boy was me. And pretty soon after the start there were elections for the school parliament, abbreviated SP. Yes Tiny, we were pretty soon confronted with SP at a young age, although it was SP; with you it is "the" SP. Now you should know that the SP consisted of three groups: the City Group, the Internals Group and the Externals Group. That too, of course, is a fundamental difference: you do not consist of three groups, you are a unitary group. The seats were distributed in proportion to the number of registered pupils living in Roermond, outside the villages and the number of students attending boarding school. The candidate for the City Group with the ambition to become president of the SP was a Geert Jan Hamilton. Brilliant speaker and a whole gentleman already, especially in the eyes of a bridge peeper. In addition, the young priest-teacher Chrit Willem's rise campaign was conducted in the catechesis classes. In any case, go and vote and I will have voted as a young and yet very sensible man, so Geert Jan Hamilton, who became chairman of the school parliament that year, his graduation year. The year before, he was the secretary of that body, his first clerk's office. To outline the context of the world in which Geert Jan and I grew up a bit more: BC Schöndeln was a very solid and good school. A Roman Catholic school. Not that there's a causal link; I see Elco Brinkman looking happy. We were taught by almost all academics and even a large number of PhDs. In addition, it was a rich and beautiful school with an auditorium with stage tower and all sound and light accessories, sports fields, tennis courts and a swimming pool. A rich school, also because the priest-teachers cost their national salary at a cost, indwelling and giving up pocket money at the Bishop's College. They lived on the school grounds in a separate apartment next to the three-building boarding school. If you think "I'm going to Roermond this weekend and I'm going to look at that: it's all broken down, both the priest's flat and the boarding school. A boy's intern. The Bishop's College Schöndeln was also a boys' school. Geert Jan was only in class with boys until his final exam. With me that was until the school year 1973-1974, when two girls in 4 alpha entered our class. In the inner city was then the girllylyceum Sint Ursula. There was frequent contact with that, you can imagine, both at the annual Hamstraat Parade, which had already been abolished in my time and the dance class at Pietje Moors. I got a bronze medal; I don't know if you got a medal there as well as annually in Ursula's plays, where boys from the college were invited to play the men's roles in plays there and vice versa she was with us. That's how Geert Jan played in various stage performances and I played five years later. And in the school year '74-'75, five years later than Geert Jan, I became chairman of the SP, the school parliament, after the year before being its first secretary. But in my later career I went a little further along the path of presidencies. I'll tell you some things about the context of the city where Geert Jan and I grew up. Roermond, old town, city rights since 1232, bishop's city, Hanseatic city, city where justice was spoken and is spoken, liberal city, very Catholic and Roman city and certainly late in the last century conservative city. Your high school days took place in the sixties of the twentieth century. The Constitution of 1848 led to the restoration of the hierarchy in 1853 and thus founded the Roman century for Roermond, which ended in the 1960s. Although... During the municipal elections of June 1970 Geert Jan had just obtained his diploma in gymnasium alpha at a turnout rate of just over 60% more than 80% of the votes were cast on the collaborative four lists of Catholic Roermond, a local KVP variant. René, those were tidy, young! They thus occupy 21 of the 25 seats, flanked by two PvdA'ers, one VVD'er and one local list. By comparison, in the recent municipal elections of March 2018, the CDA won 15% of the votes cast at the turnout of 54%. To reassure everyone else: something has changed. Churchally, there was really the end of the Roman century in Roermond in the 1960s. Thanks to the innovative Second Vatican Council, a progressive space was created within the Catholic Church. In Limburg this led, among other things, to the establishment of the Hogeschool voor Theologie en Pastoraat. It also led to more open-minded pastors and priest-teachers, also at the Bishoply College Schöndeln. In Roermond, the Youth Church was founded in 1969, the later ecumenical basic municipality of Jonge Kerk in which Geert Jan was very active and so was I, more than five years later. Because the renewal had also struck in the Roman diocese Pope Paul VI appointed in 1972 the ultra-conservative Jo Gijsen as bishop of Roermond in a successful attempt to crush the renewal and as a result many Catholics left the church after the sad singing. The social and cultural changes and changes in the direction of more democratisation in the 1960s did not go beyond Roermond either. And so neither did Geert Jan, who, after his final exam, first went to America with AFS International Scholarships and then went to study law in Rotterdam in 1971. Why Rotterdam? Well, because he already knew Nijmegen. There he was born in 1952, five years later in Roermond in 1957, and there he grew up in Nijmegen until the family Hamilton moved to Roermond in 1962. In many activities in which Geert Jan participated, I became active five years later: school, cultural society, school parliament, Young Church. In the First Chamber, however, he entered the Senate two years after my entrance. In 2006 Geert Jan is appointed as Registrar of the First Chamber after a career specializing in health law and working, among other things, at the Association of Health Insurance Funds, the health insurance companies and as Director of Legislation and Legal Affairs of the Ministry of VWS and as such jointly responsible for the design and establishment of the new health insurance system. I think I speak on behalf of all the former Members and Members who have experienced him when I say that the Senate in Geert Jan has had an extremely competent, expert, honest, serviceable and excellent Registrar over the last 12 years. Accessible, too. You could always call on him if you needed just as precise information. He carefully figured it out for you or he knew exactly how to refer you. Aimabl, exceptionally nice and, for the office clerk also not insignificant, neutral. Although, a tip of the veil in that sense: given his education at school and lessons both in extracurricular activities and in the renewal in the church, he will be confused with dogmatism and regentism and always opt for the civilized, the content. Both in society and in the manners, in the interpersonal and in the debate. Geert Jan, you, in my view, were passionate about a proper course of law through this part of the States General. I thank you very much for all the work you have done in recent years for the parliamentary work here as well as for the institution of First Chamber as such. You made sure, with your staff, that the work for all of us was well informed, especially when we didn't have to push with all those packs of paper that we got poured out every week and only had to bring an iPad here and back. I'll start one more time at least five years later than you: my retirement. Es God stayed, so much feather. I'll give you that head start again. I wish you and your loved ones a very long time in good health, happiness and love. The goat dich good, Warrior.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-eerstekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Cool Thissen. I now give the floor to myself. A cathedral? I don't need it, Warrior. He gets involved in everything. It's gonna stay that way. But it's also nice. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the First Chamber of the States-General. Dear former Presidents, distinguished ex-Griffers, distinguished guests, distinguished staff of the Chamber. As President of the Chamber, I have never addressed the Registrar as a 'dear Registrar' in a plenary session. To be honest, I have never felt the challenge. The Warrior's just here. On this special day, September 25, 2018, we say goodbye to the Registrar of the First Chamber, with, indeed Cool, the beautiful Roman names Gerardus Johannes Adrianus Augustinus? Aha. I made it Adrianus, Hamilton. It is nice, because for a moment I thought of Pope Adrianus VI, but that was not quite good. On this special day I do now have a strong need to say "dear Registrar" and even to call the Registrar in plenary by the first name. Dear Warrior, dear Geert Jan. Today is the day you knew would come, to quote a verse from the King's Song for the inauguration of King Willem-Alexander. By the way: the grammatical improvements in the lyrics of this song are from my hand. In preparing my speech, I thought it would be useful to first of all consider what prompted you, more than twelve years ago, in 2006 to aspire to the position of First Chamber Registrar. After all, you had a wonderful career in the field of health insurance and the health care system. I went looking for your application. Let me drop the door in the house right away: I didn't find it. I did find a nice resume, with a list of publications in the field of health care, but not a letter of application. After some thought on my part, that also turned out very logical: you didn't apply to the position, you were asked. I found a copy passport from 2006 and one from 2017. The difference is big. In 2006 a youthful, cheerful, cheerful Geert Jan looks at me. Your glance and glance in 2017 are of a completely different nature. Somber, signed. Almost a police photo, ripe for prison. Yeah, that's the one, Warrior. That's terrible, yeah. It appears that the registrarship has taken its toll. But if I look at your recent photo in the Volkskrant of September 20, then I see the Geert Jan as we all know you: friendly, cheerful, competent, modest, discreet, neutral, honest, serviceable. Geert Jan, with you today we say goodbye to a Registrar who has made his mark in the First Chamber, in the Binnenhof, nationwide and international over a period of more than twelve years. The thread in your career at the First Chamber is the great love you have for the Institute. The usual reaction of members, former members and even outsiders when your name is mentioned, Geert Jan, in the context of the First Chamber is: introduction of the iPad. Your name will remain attached to that innovation forever. On 13 September 2011, the members of the First Chamber were treated to an iPad on which all the meeting pieces of the First Chamber can be found via a special app, instead of meeting pieces in printed form. Not everyone was cheering right away. For example, I was so used to weekly thick piles of paper on which I could take notes, that at the beginning I was mentally opposed. But that happened very quickly to me and the entire Chamber when we realized that the iPad not only contained the recent Chamberpieces, but also served as an excellent archive. With only the iPad in hand, all documents are available at the touch of a button. Geert Jan said at the introduction of that iPad: "The Senate sometimes has an image of dustiness, but in addition to quality and care, efficient working and transparency are also paramount. That's why the First Chamber was always at the forefront of digital information and fast communication." That's a good line. The First Chamber had to be pushed to the front by the Registrar. Of a completely different nature, namely back in history, Geert Jan's commitment was to restore the gallery on the second floor of the Chamber Building, the gallery that connects the Mauritstoren with the Mary Stuartkabinet. Until 2012, this gallery consisted of a scrap-coated coffee corner, the kitchen of the house manager's house and the room for the officials who support the various directors during plenary debates. Geert Jan, as a great lover of history and more specifically the history of the Binnenhof and parliamentary history, made sure that in 2013, as he calls it, the "listening" Amalia of Solmsgallery named after Frederik Hendrik's wife, could be put into service. That gallery is an asset to the Chamber Building. In the same line of history and beautification of the Chamber Building, Geert Jan managed to obtain a bust of Lieutenant-Colonel Lodewijk Thomson. Thomson was a member of the House of Representatives at the beginning of the 20th century and was sent as a military mission by the Netherlands for a peace mission in Albania. Geert Jan also provided portraits or busts of our monarchs since 1815. Thus, all the Oranges are represented in this Chamber building from the Father of the Fatherland. These matters are certainly not unworthy and even groundbreaking, such as the introduction of the iPad, but the real substantive work of the Registry consists of directing the Registry, ensuring that the parliamentary process is going well and supporting the President. Your support from the President, Geert Jan, I have greatly appreciated the more than five years we have worked together, and I am also sure that my predecessors as President of the Council are sitting at the government table today who have appreciated support in three years, Yvonne Timmerman, and twice two years, René van der Linden and Fred de Graaf, respectively. Every year you are responsible for the organisation of Prinsjesdag and every year that day runs very well, to the pleasure of the President. You even appear to have a direct line with the weather gods: every year the sun shines. You always bring the support of the President very discreetly and modestly, but at the same time with emphasis. And that's a good thing, because no one knows the Rules of Procedure as you know it. You yourself said about this at the farewell of Jacqueline Biesheuvel as Registrar of the House of Representatives: "Sometimes it is inevitable that the Registrar, with the emotion of a fish in cold water, explains how procedures that parliament itself has established are put together." I remember very well that time when, during a plenary debate, I turned off the microphone of the speaker's seat because, even after repeated requests on my part, the Member of Parliament concerned did not want to take back the words I objected to. I turned off the microphone spontaneously. A few seconds later, you presented the Rules of Procedure to me and pointed out to me that I had acted correctly in the Rules of Procedure. No hair on my head that had thought of that at the time. It's extremely nice that there'll be a Warrior covering your back. Or at the time when a roll-call vote had been requested, but at the end of the debate by the party spokesperson who had asked for a roll-call vote, it was proposed to refrain from a roll-call vote and still to vote by political group. 'The outcome of the debate is clear' was said. Together we came to the conclusion that in that case the result of the vote would be 180 degrees different. The roll-call vote was maintained, by the way, after intervention by the Chamber and more specifically by Mr Tof Thissen. On a few occasions, as President, I wanted to raise a point in the debate. In principle, the President shall not do so unless the order of the debate so requires. That few times I first consulted with Geert Jan, who sits next to me at the rostrum, as today, in the knowledge that Geert Jan is the first to know that the institution of First Chamber must not be damaged. Only after his green light did I put on the naughty shoes. You've also done a lot for the introduction of new MPs. That introduction is well organized, with a lot of written explanation. Nevertheless, Members of Parliament keep coming up with questions, even after that introduction. With wise policy and very friendly you are always willing to answer all questions, even though the answer is black-and-white in all the explanations. You sometimes murmify about that to me, quietly. Under your leadership, the Registry has become a well-organised, well-oiled company without losing the character of the family business. This proved to be quite clear during the organisation of the parliamentary part of the presidency of the Netherlands of the European Union. You, along with the Registry, have had an important part in the smooth running of the successful conferences. Your warm interest in Europe and the European Union, your knowledge and also your excellent relations with the clerks of the parliaments of the European Union came in handy. A sad episode for the First Chamber was the tragedy of bringing down MH17, in which our First MP Willem Witteveen, his wife and his daughter died. We stood for it together. That helped me, that helped you. I just mentioned Geert Jan's love for history, more specifically the history of the Binnenhof and parliamentary history. Geert Jan, you make a contribution to history yourself. When in 2015 200 years of bicameral system would be celebrated, Geert Jan thought it would be nice to have a piece of music composed especially for this occasion. It became the "Hymne for the States General." The title of the piece comes from Geert Jan himself. Since then, the play at the end of Prinsjesdag is heard in the Knight's Room. The "Hymne" is already part of the history of the States General. Almost three years now we live with the concept of "renovation of the Binnenhof." You've been on the so-called steering committee for some time. In that capacity, you do your utmost to ensure that the renovation is positive for the Upper House. That is not a small thing; the brake pedal must be stepped in repeatedly. They're thinking of abolishing the balconies and making another stairwell of the Hall. But I won't go into it right now. On 30 April 2013 the whole of the Netherlands met you. You crossed the middle path in the New Church as the Warrior of the United Assembly. Geert Jan, only few experience such an event as more than active participant, namely as an organizer. The inauguration of the King takes place at a United Assembly of the States General in the Nieuwe Kerk in Amsterdam. Only three months were available to organise this particular event. The last time was thirty-three years ago, so it was obvious that there had to be a modernisation. You have been exemplary in leading the process, a process with influential players from different sides with different interests. You kept your head cool from the deep conviction that the United Assembly, in which the inauguration would take place after all, should be set up in an exemplary manner. In addition to all this, you also made sure that several publications were published with the aim of bringing the First Chamber closer to the public. A nice so-called "coffee table book" titled "House of the Senate" was published in 2013. In the English version "The house of the Senate." It is a handy, richly illustrated and informative publication about the building of the First Chamber for Dutch and foreign relations. But it didn't stop there. In 2015, on the occasion of 200 years of bicamera system, the book "Veelzaakte in part-time" was published. That's a beautiful production of the Registry. You yourself said in the presentation of the book, in the carefully chosen terms that we know of you: "I, as a Registrar, take responsibility for the book as a whole and, if necessary, I can be dealt with by the political level of the First Chamber." And very recently, the book "Brief Guide to the Senate" appeared. On our last joint trip abroad, at the beginning of this month, you drove along like a commercial traveller bags with specimens to please our foreign hosts and hosts with this last joint pen fruit of the Registry. Also internationally you have shown yourself to be very active as a Registrar, not only with foreign travel together with the President, also in your own capacity. I'm going to talk about that. Before I mention that part, I can imagine that many people now think: "Doesn't there have any begs at all on the Registry Geert Jan Hamilton? Doesn't he have any peculiarities at all?" Oh, yeah. Geert Jan, you are the carnal proverb "sustainability with pleasure builds houses like castles." Yeah, you're smiling right now, but not anymore. Recently, Ilse and I experienced that when we had to carry Paris in high heels for over half an hour through the night. It would have been helpful if we had taken a taxi as soon as we left the restaurant, but no, the metro was, so you thought, a great way to get around. Unfortunately that was disappointing when the subway we had to take was no longer driving because of repair work. Another peculiarity of Geert Jan is his occasional special use of words. In the beginning of my presidency, I had to get used to the expression "least taken," a favorite of yours, Geert Jan. I had to let it sink before I realized exactly what you said, "least taken." Another favorite is the word "notification." The words "well" and "now" are also in your mouth. It is worthy of language as a constitutional servant of the First Chamber. You also have the incomprehensible habit of harassing the President with e-mails in the middle of the night, usually around 3:00 or 3:30 a.m., staff of the Registry, and others. A final point by which the always correct, carefully formulating, neutral, discreet Registrar turns out to have human traits is the culinary fondness of Geert Jan. During a reception or wherever, no shrimp escapes his attention. Geert Jan, I recalled all your warm interest in Europe and the European Union. However, your international interests go much further. Because of this interest and your active commitment to the Association of Secretaries General of Parliaments, you have repeatedly represented the First Chamber in an excellent way for an audience of top officials of national parliaments worldwide. You gave a presentation in both the European Parliament and the ASGP on the digitisation of the First Chamber as the world's first parliamentary body to work completely paperless. You gave presentations about integrity, the inauguration of the King and many other topics that are of interest to your international colleagues. You are the support and abandonment of the President and of the Chamber as a whole in the area of parliamentary diplomacy. However small the steps that can be taken to achieve better understanding and better relations between parliaments, it makes parliamentary diplomacy useful and valuable. Together with other MPs and staff from the Registry, we have made a lot of foreign visits. I always knew I was supported by your great commitment, your file knowledge, your knowledge of people and your diplomatic skills in all visits. You can be proud, Geert Jan, of what you have meant internationally for the First Chamber. Geert Jan. As a thank you for all you've done for the Chamber, only one gift fits: a private iPad, completely empty, without apps, without digital newspapers and other sources of information. That'll get used to you. But I'm sure you'll soon be inseparable from it again. I'll give it to you in a minute. I will also thank Ineke very much for her involvement in the Upper House. Her will end up with the Silver Tulipbroche of the Chamber. Finally, Geert Jan. In the twelve years and one month as Registrar of the First Chamber of the States-General, you have meant a great deal to the First Chamber, also internationally. In your previous position at the VWS Ministry, you have made an important contribution to the design and implementation of the Health Insurance Act. You have been actively involved in administrative activities and social side activities. Therefore, it has... and now the.. His Majesty the King is pleased to appoint you Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau. You may clap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-eerstekamer-11.u4	It's an honor for me to give you the decorations. I will undoubtedly be much more clumsy in that than all the mayors in our midst, but I'm going to do my best. Would you stand there for the rostrum? (The President appointed Mr Hamilton as Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau.)
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-eerstekamer-11.u5	This is a special moment. I need to take a look. I thank His Majesty the King for the great honor that has fallen upon me. I would also like to thank all those who advised him in this decision, and I suspect that you, Mr President, know roughly who they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-eerstekamer-11.u6	In fact, I'm sure. There are at least two of them on the other side of the table!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-eerstekamer-11.u7	I would also like to thank you for your very warm and comprehensive words, in which a great deal has emerged. I do not want to say that it has slipped away in part, but you have done very thorough research into what has happened over the last 12 years. At some point I got a little warmer myself, but it wasn't that bad. It could be worse. I would also like to thank Mr Thissen, who has gone very deeply back into our common roots in the beautiful Limburg country in the town of Remunj. It is true, it is also history, we are 50 years further away from that period of great cultural change in the Netherlands in the church. We've both experienced that very intensely. I love the way you put it here. I don't know if there's ever been so much about Remunj in this Chamber. We talk about Remunj sometimes, but not always in the conference room. I might have a tendency to be improvising about what I have heard, but then I would be threatening to run counter to the speaking time I have always tried to maintain. I had a few things to say myself. I also start in the past; there is something about me of history. In 1961, when I was 9 years old, I went away with my parents and brothers for the first time outside my hometown of Nijmegen. During a week on the coast I met the sea, the pier of Scheveningen under construction, Madurodam, the Peace Palace and much more. At the end of the vacation, my mother asked me what I liked most about that week. Without hesitation, I said, "The room with the golden roof." When I told this petite histoire in my discussion with the selection committee in 2006, one of the group chairmen, Mr Schuyer, said: "Interesting, Mr Hamilton, that you keep such a good childhood memory in our conference room, but that cannot be reason enough to appoint you as the First Chamber Registrar." I totally agreed with that. On my side, it was not primarily the early inflamed love for this beautiful building that made me ambience the function of Warrior of the First Chamber. That was the firm conviction I had and always maintained, that the First Chamber within the Dutch state system plays an important and indispensable role in the legislative process. The fact that the First Chamber came on my path was certainly not obvious. My father was a doctor and to his grief I was more of an alpha boy. I have sublimated the incapacity to become a doctor myself by studying the legal aspects of health care relationships as a young lawyer. From my earliest childhood, I knew that the world was made up of health care patients and private patients. In the fifties of the last century, sick fund patients were people who from seven o'clock in the morning took place in the basement in an increasingly smoked waiting room in the midst of piles of Panoramas and Libelles hoping to get their turn at some point. Private patients were people who called by appointment at the front door and were immediately led to the office by the maid. I thought that was a weird difference in approach and understood as a young person that it had to do with payments and insurance. In the last century I had a great time as a lawyer at the dome of the sickness funds, later the health insurance companies, fascinated by the big money involved in health care and the special flow of money. I fully agreed with the health insurance scheme that there should be one general health insurance for the whole population. In 1993 I was sitting here in the public gallery and saw Secretary of State Simons grilled by the First Chamber about a bill which he wanted to implement a further phase on his way to public insurance. I sat next to a Member of the House of Representatives who, with me, was bewildered by the way his related group was moving in a different direction than he had supported with conviction in his Chamber. The bill passed, but due to the demands made by the Court of Justice on the implementation regulations, the plan fell. I refer to the Kaland motion. In the following years, Minister Borst managed to guide an impressive legislative sueuvre through both Chambers. She didn't want to burn her fingers on the health care system for a while. At the end of her period, she left a blueprint for a new health insurance through a note. I was able to participate in this, because in 1999 I made the transition from civil society to the VWS ministry. I became Director of Law and Legal Affairs, an unusual starting position for a novice state official. In the years 2003 to 2005, Minister Hoogervorst, supported by an enthusiastic team of employees, established the Health Insurance Act. As recently pointed out at Mrs Van Leeuwen's commemoration, the First Chamber gave the Minister the fire on his bill in June 2005. I sat with my colleagues upstairs in that dungeoned civil servant's room, which has now gone into the Amalia of Solms Gallery. Here, the First Chamber for which it is on earth did critically question the government, obtain further clarification as necessary about the meaning and purpose of legal texts, and pay full attention to the implementation implications of the proposal. Already the presence of a First Chamber as an institution operating in this way is disciplined for the legislative process. From the first stage of the legislative lawyers in the ministries, or rather the first attacks on the keyboard, it must be clear that the bill at the end of the journey will have to pass a final review by the First Chamber of the criteria for proper legislation, including constitutionality, and compliance with international treaties. The assessment of the outcome of this review is part of the political consideration that each Member of Parliament must make for his or her final assessment of a proposal. A democratic rule of law and a free society are governed by laws and decisions based on them, not by intentions or policy ideas that politicians rise up with in the morning, not even by agreements they conclude. The laws count and each of them must have reached the finish line on its own. It is important for the political parties to put a lot of real legislativeally involved candidate-room members back on the list in the upcoming elections to the First Chamber. In 2006 I dared to switch to the First Chamber. I also saw a further development of legal specialist on a sub-area by generalist as a new challenge in my career. The office of Registrar of the States General, with now a Registrar for the First Chamber and one for the Second Chamber, is one of the oldest posts of State in our country. Since Jan van Asseliers conceived the Plate of Abandonment in 1581 there has been great constancy in the core tasks of the Registry: ensure that the meetings are properly prepared, the decisions are properly formulated and everything that is traded is properly reported. Today, this means that the Registrar is also editor-in-chief of the website of the First Chamber on which everything is recorded and archived. The instruction for the Registrar of the First Chamber of the States General, as established in 1849 and last amended in 1969, I have always felt very useful. Apparently, so did your room, otherwise you would have changed it. The President is responsible for the work of the Registrar and the Registry in the administrative-political sense. The President shall direct the proceedings of the First Chamber, as set out in the Rules of Procedure. The President shall act in the full light and the Registrar shall stand by him or her in the shadows. The functions of President and Registrar are set out in the first and second paragraphs of Article 61 of the Constitution respectively. The constitutional anchoring of the appointment of both officials has never been controversial in my knowledge, and I hope and expect it to remain so. President and Registrar are condemned to each other and they see each other on many days of the year longer than their life partners see them. The latter don't see them for days. I am very honored that the former Presidents I have been allowed to serve are also here today and also my two ministers. Mrs Timmerman-Buck stood like a lion, or I must say lioness, in front of the First Chamber and no one could testify more clearly to the existence of the First Chamber than she did. Mr Van der Linden, with his extensive experience, has strengthened the European and international dimension of the work of the First Chamber. Parliamentary diplomacy can no longer be excluded from the work of the Chamber. As a race leader, Mr De Graaf needed few words to tell us how he wanted things to be done. Under his leadership, my colleagues from the Registry and I were able to organise the biggest festivities in the recent history of our country: the inauguration of our King in the United Assembly of States General on 30 April 2013 in the Nieuwe Kerk in Amsterdam. In his period, a major step in the digitisation of the First Chamber was taken. The fact that he saw this with the Household Commission mainly as a matter of efficient support and management demonstrated great confidence in the Registry. Administratively, he showed that with little money, successful ICT public projects are also possible. A characteristic feature of the First Chamber is that this room is debated at the sharpest of the cuts, but that outside the Chamber the association of members is casual, involved and friendly, across party boundaries. I have learned from my international official contacts that it is a blessing that relatively little plenary time should be devoted to procedural matters and debates of order. Other parliaments sometimes lose seas of little productive time. The situation with us is so favourable because most of the questions of order, order, handling internal and also constitutional issues are captured by an important body, the College of Seniors, chaired by the President, consisting of the political leaders in the Chamber. In the twelve years I can see, there has never been a planned meeting of the College, nor has there been a planned plenary session. Discipline is important for a parliament. I don't want things to go away. The members are also very open and friendly in their dealings with the employees. I am very grateful to them, all of you, for that. The joy of work for everyone, including me, is to a great extent determined by the colleagues you are dealing with every day. You know, Mr President, who here with expertise, dedication and often passion are doing the real supporting work, how the committee staff run under the guidance of the deputy clerks, who provides ICT support, who provides information and communication, who is very committed to Prinsjesdag, county visits and all the events we have here, who provides the facilities, bosses and household services, provides human and financial support, provides mail and archives, man up the President's Office and Registrar, prepares the Chamber's documents, supervises the entry of new members, prepares the Chamber's agenda and much more. With my colleagues on the management team, I have always sought to bring in the best people. I would like to thank all my colleagues and former colleagues from the bottom of my heart for their excellent cooperation. I would also like to thank the "rented" staff of the Security Office, the praiseworthy Service Report and Editorial Service, the Registry Interparliamentary Relations, the Parliamentary Documentation Centre, the catering in our restaurant, other service providers and our house photographer. The contacts throughout the year with the colleagues of the House of Representatives are frequent. I would also like to thank them sincerely. And, of course, the members of the political groups, in whom some people already see the political blood crawling. You, Mr President, have spoken to me for a long time. I have never been allowed to address you as a Registrar in this Chamber, and I never will. That's why there's a single word now. Our cooperation has been the longest I have had with a President for almost five and a half years. With the openness, generosity and cordiality that you are yourself, you have won the Registry for yourself. I have always observed that your presidency is being carried very widely in this Chamber. You unite great skill in presiding with perpetual insight into legislation and a now huge, also international, reputation as the first representative of the First Chamber. They want you everywhere. The way in which you, certainly internationally, act and pay attention, is so good for the Netherlands and for bilateral and international relations. It was a privilege to be able to support you. I thank you and all the Members for the trust you have always placed in me. And, Ankie, I thank you for the great pleasure that we have had so many times at work and on the road together. We are going to separate functionally, but I am sure it will not lead to a real separation of roads. I also thank my family, with all the children in our great combined family, for all the sympathy over the years. Finally, I thank my dear wife Ineke for all the love, care and support. As some of you know, during the years of my registrarship, she has often had to fight an enormous battle for survival, and she does so with a bravery and lust for life that always moves me. She is also active in health care and thinks that we at the Binnenhof are rather spoiled people compared to countless healthcare workers. I've known very happy years in the First Chamber. I thank you all and wish you, Mr President, your Chamber, all those involved, including my successor, and parliamentary democracy the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-eerstekamer-11.u8	After the end of the sitting, there will be an opportunity for Members and those sitting here on the balconies, the guests, to say goodbye to the Registrar here in the room.
