ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Election Act on measures for the electronic publication of the minutes of the polling offices and the statements of mayors of the votes cast in the municipalities, the amendment of the Election Act to simplify voting from abroad and the extension of the possibility of experimenting, and the Arrangement on the possible allocation of additional seats for the Netherlands in the European Parliament. We're gonna go through three laws together. I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, as well as the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. There have been six speakers. Since it concerns the treatment of three legislative proposals, I would like to agree with you not to create obstacles when it comes to the number of interruptions, but I would ask you to do it in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u2	First of all, I give the floor to Mr Van Gent of the VVD. It shouldn't be a surprise that he's making his maiden speech today. We have an agreement in the Chamber that someone who does his maiden speech should not be interrupted. So we are going to listen carefully to Mr Van Gent's contribution. Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I should like to begin by thanking my fellow spokesmen for letting me lead the way. I would then like to thank my fellow group members and the staff for sacrificing a Thursday evening to be here. I appreciate that. Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that I consider it an enormous privilege to stand here as a member of the old and venerable institution of the States General. After all, the history of our parliament goes much further than that of the Dutch State. As a former professor of history, I therefore take this opportunity to give a brief lecture on the emergence and development of our parliamentary democracy. Consider it a form of professional deformity. But I am convinced that the historical context is necessary in order to understand our political present and our future. The first meeting of the States General took place in Bruges on 9 January 1464. A long time ago. It is noteworthy that the first meeting of the representation of the states of all the 'countrys from over' was held at the initiative of some Dutch and Zeeland cities. They were concerned about the Duke Philip III of Burgundy's intention to start a crusade against the Ottoman Empire. Ten years earlier they had sealed the fate of the Byzantine Empire by taking Constantinople. The Dutch and Zeeland concerns were understandable. Philip III, nicknamed the Good One, was already 70 years old. Yet the grand duc du ponant, the great Duke of the West as he called himself, was not very pleased with all this compassion. The Burgundy considered it an affront that not himself, but some Dutch and Zeeuwen had dared to call his people's representatives together. But soon it appeared to him that the meeting of the states was useful, not least because he could ask them for extra money. Thus the Duke soon organized new meetings, and here we recognize a common thread through the history of the States General. Successive governments generally found the people's representatives difficult, but in the end could not without their wisdom and their money. Thus, the States-General once began with an angry, but ultimately a very satisfied landlord. Mr. Chairman. I'll warn you, I've got 550 years to go. As we saw, the States-General settled in the Southern Netherlands in their first years, even after the Spanish Habsburg Empire had acquired authority over the Netherlands. And now the Dutch Uprising, which broke out in 1568, is often dismissed as a question of faith, but I would like to point out here that many Dutch Catholics also participated in it. In fact, the indignation of the Dutch was mainly caused by the high taxes introduced by the Spanish king to finance his many wars. This turned out to be explicit when his infamous governor, the Duke of Alva, announced the so-called "tenth badge." This measure to charge 10% turnover tax on all movable property, or rather a kind of sixteenth-century VAT measure, set the whole country on fire. So you see only a wise lesson of governing: you must never let the tax burden rise too high. On 26 June 1581 the States-General adopted the Act of Abandonment, with which they formally deprived the Spanish King Philip II of his power over the Netherlands. The Dutch parliament will rarely have taken a more important decision than it did then. For the first time in world political history, this officially rejected the King's authority, under the argument that a people has the right to rebel, when a prince does not fulfil his duties and behaves like a tyrant. In short, the people have the legal right to choose their leaders. The Act of Abandonment became a kind of motion of distrust avant la lettre. However, our illustrious predecessors would have been surprised at the ease with which such motions are presented today. The Spanish king responded by sending an army, and as the Spaniards recaptured more and more cities in the Southern Netherlands, the States-General was forced into a wandering existence. They then met in Brussels, Namur, Ghent and Antwerp. And then the representatives of the people left for the North, where in Delft, Doordrecht and Haarlem were gathered. If we may believe the ancient annals, the most pleasant and therefore the most fruitful meetings took place in Middelburg, where one stayed in the late summer of 1583 and 1587. It was not until early 1588 that The Hague became the temporary seat for the States General, pending the return to the Southern Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I think it is an inspiring history, and I wonder if we can learn from it. In my mind, I see us making a new grand tour all over the country. And the States-General could then meet for a few weeks in a different provincial city each time. For example, we can go from Zeewolde to Leeuwarden, and then we can go to Deventer via Assen. After Venlo, Alkmaar and Breda the representatives of the people could spend another late summer in the beautiful Middelburg. It is a good way to get out of The Hague and strengthen the relationship between citizens and politics. I do not see it coming so soon, meetings in different provinces, but what is important is that more attention should be paid to those regions which often feel remote from national politics. Mr. Chairman. After this literal and figurative trip I return to my speech. Another important year from our parliamentary history is 1798. At that time, the National Assembly not only introduced the first Dutch Constitution, with fundamental rights for every citizen, but also a democratic centralist unitary state, based on the doctrine of separation of powers. The Netherlands at that time knew the Batavian Republic, but was in fact a vassal state of France. It is sometimes underestimated in our country how much our political and legal system has been influenced by the French. For example, our Civil Code and the registers of civil status are based on the Code Napoléon. Where, according to some, everything is determined by Brussels today, the Dutch still reap the benefits of the Paris rules. The basis of the current system of parliamentary democracy was laid 50 years later by the constitutional amendment of 1848. Our parliamentary history has many famous nights, but none of them were as crucial as King William II's Night. The 55-year-old prince joked against his diplomats that he had finally only accepted Thorbecke's proposals, because he had become conservatively liberal in one night. At least his experience shows that it is never too late for conversion. By introducing ministerial responsibility and royal immunity, William II lost much of his power, but the survival of the dynasty was assured. It is sometimes argued in the Netherlands, also in this house, that radical changes are needed, but in this respect we should take an example of the velvet revolution of 1848. Finally, in this overview of the history of our constitutional system, I would like to consider another key year, 1917. In the middle of the First World War, which held most of Europe in its grip, the parties in the States-General decided on an important compromise whereby the introduction of universal suffrage was exchanged against the equivalence of special and public education. Liberals and Socialists felt that every Dutchman, regardless of income or education, should have the right to vote. Ironically, it was their opponents, the confessions, who benefited most from the introduction of universal suffrage and then won the elections for many years. For example, political decisions may have unexpected consequences. Nevertheless, the pacification of 1917 shows that the biggest political breakthroughs are made in the Netherlands by polding, with ideological contradictions not rushing into the rush. It is precisely because parties are prepared to bring water to the wine that constructive solutions can be sought and found. Now, 100 years later, I believe that this consensus policy is still a prerequisite for the successful management of the Netherlands. Now back to today's agenda. We are dealing with three legislative proposals in the area of voting rights, which is a very important issue, because the election of our elected representatives is the foundation of our democracy. We will support the amendment of the Election Act to make the minutes of the polling stations available electronically. We strongly support the modernisation of the electoral process through information and communication technologies. We also support the amendment of the Tickets Act and the Temporary Experimentation Act to simplify voting from abroad. The VVD has always been a warm advocate to make the Dutch vote in the strange low-threshold. The third and final proposal concerns the arrangement of the possible allocation of additional seats for the Netherlands in the European Parliament. As far as the VVD is concerned, it was not necessary at all to distribute British seats to the other Member States, but now that that decision has been taken, we can live with the government's proposal. Mr. Chairman. I hope that this has made a small contribution to the development and consolidation of our beautiful political system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Gent. I congratulate you on your maiden speech and suspend the sitting in order to give you the congratulations you certainly deserve after such a wonderful speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u5	I will resume the sitting after the congratulations have been completed and I will give the floor to Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Gent on his beautiful maiden speech. It was a beautiful historical perspective. I couldn't have imagined you'd start with the Ottoman Empire tonight. You can imagine that I have a thing with that too, but I will focus on the present and the future tonight. Mr. Chairman. This evening we are discussing three legislative proposals on the right to vote. These are three relatively small legislative proposals, but since the right to vote is a fundamental part of our parliamentary democracy, it is a good thing that we are discussing this with each other today. As far as my group is concerned, we can well follow the reasoning behind the three legislative proposals before us. However, I do have a few questions for the Minister on all three proposals. First of all, the legislative proposal which regulates the electronic disclosure of the minutes. GroenLinks is pleased that the government wants to regulate this legally following an approved chamber motion. An electoral process that is as transparent as possible is very important. It is good to read that this transparency will also apply to the island councils and the electoral colleges for the First Chamber on Bonaire, Statia and Saba. Then there is the proposal to make participation in elections for people abroad easier. The starting point for this legislative proposal is good and understandable, but GroenLinks shares the concerns of the Council of State about the balance between accessibility and integrity of the electoral process. Can the Minister promise that she will monitor properly how the option proposed by this law will be used and that this legal possibility will also be proactively evaluated so that we can prevent abuse of the voting by letter in a border municipality? Can it also indicate how border municipalities are involved in preventing this legal possibility from being abused? Furthermore, the municipality of The Hague has stated that it would like to keep the registration period of 14 days and that it does not consider it desirable to reduce the deadline to seven days. Following the opinion of the Council of State, the Minister made a note of this in the explanatory memorandum. My group would nevertheless like to receive a further explanation from the Minister on this point. Finally, the legislative proposal on the allocation of any additional seats in the European Parliament. My group is pleased that the procedure is clear before the elections. However, on this point, I have another question that my group also asked in the written round, but which we would like to have a further response to. Why is there a temporary law here? Can't this scheme become a permanent part of the Kiedswet? After all, at a later date the number of seats could also be adjusted. We look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u7	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Den Boer of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u8	Mr. Chairman. I too would very much like to congratulate Mr Van Gent on his beautiful maiden speech. Maiden... Where were the women in the development of this parliamentary democracy, I was wondering. Anyway, there's every reason for a party. This year we are celebrating 100 years of voting rights, a milestone. I think it is right that we should consider this as a Chamber in a festive manner. Today we are talking about proposals that amend the Tickets Act. So we see: our electoral system remains in motion. For the best, I'll just say right away. D66 supports the changes that are being made, although we remain in favour of an integral amendment to the Election Act as recommended by the Election Council. And I have a few more questions for the Minister. Mr. Chairman. One of the proposals we are discussing today concerns the online publication of the minutes of a polling station. D66 considers this a good step forward towards greater transparency in the electoral process. That way, everyone can see the police report at home. And I also look forward to the bill that regulates that municipalities place the documents on a central website. In this way it is easier for interested parties to see records from different municipalities. And it can also be useful for researchers. How long will these documents remain online, I ask the Minister. I have heard that the VNG is concerned about the online publication of the names of the members of the polling station. Why is this necessary, I ask the Minister. Can it remove the concerns of the UNG about this? Mr. Chairman. D66 supports the steps taken by the Minister to improve voting for Dutch people abroad. The right to vote is one of the most important rights attached to citizenship. The measures taken by the Minister are welcome. The fact is that only 70,000 voters abroad have registered on a permanent basis, while around a million Dutch people live abroad. Are there any bottlenecks that prevent people from registering, I ask the Minister. Small improvements can at least help a lot. The amendment in question includes, for example, the deletion of the obligation to return the voting documents in an orange envelope. I also mention the obligation for the City of The Hague to send the voting documents to the Dutch abroad no later than 12 weeks in advance. For example, voters have longer time to receive the voting documents and send them back on time. It is also good to hear that in the upcoming elections to the European Parliament five European embassies are organised in European capitals. The vote may be delivered in person on the day of the vote until 3 p.m. D66 is also pleased that the Minister will map out the options to give Dutch residents living abroad influence on the composition of the First Chamber in the future. Can the Minister give us a tip of the veil here? What's she thinking? Mr. Chairman. I would like to make another point, which concerns the accessibility of the elections. D66 believes that in our society everyone should be able to participate in the electoral process, regardless of restrictions. The Minister stated in her letter of 15 October that she intends to experiment in 2021, in three years' time, to support voters with intellectual disabilities. Why is the Minister waiting so long? And in the letter I read that these experiments are designed by means of "early voting," already voices thus. But can people with intellectual disabilities be assisted during early voting? Is that gonna be part of the experiment? I'd like a clarification. And, Mrs Bergkamp, what a coincidence that you are using the sledgehammer to deal with this issue about people with disabilities who can participate in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u9	Thank you. There's no such thing as coincidence, let's just say. But I see Mr Bosma looking in the eye. Maybe you should explain to him what the coincidence is. I hear him asking if I have a limitation. Don't we all have a limit? I have tabled an amendment on this subject in the past. But that is not relevant in my role, now, of chairman. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Raak of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Van Gent, congratulations on your wonderful maiden speech. I liked it. As far as I have come to know Mr Van Gent, he is a classic liberal, a liberal gentleman. There aren't that many in the VVD either. In 1888, Domela Nieuwenhuis was the first socialist in this Chamber. Socialists have learned from him that politics is fighting against men's statues. I will promise Mr Van Gent that I will do so wholeheartedly in the coming years. I think we can still have some good debates together. I am not going to read the laws that we are discussing today, because then I am out of my speaking time. I would also like to thank Mr Bosma, because the first law we are discussing today has come through a motion by Mr Bosma. I think it is very special that an approved motion by Mr Bosma has been transposed by the Minister into law. That's how we see how beautiful this room can be. All records and all associated electronic files will be actively made public. We have also seen results made public in the previous elections to this Chamber. Then we also saw that thousands, thousands of votes were not counted, were miscounted and that whole parties were not counted. That's what worried me anyway. That did not affect the results at the time, the experts say. But of course I was wondering how all these other years went, when the Election Council got the results and that was never published. Many mistakes will undoubtedly have been made in those years; we do not know how many. Did that affect the results? We won't know. I therefore think that disclosure is extremely important. We should not count ourselves well, because when the results are established, the results are made public and everything turns out to be wrong, then we cannot change the results. We can see it went wrong, but there's not much we can do about it. That's right, I'm asking the Minister. So it's important to avoid making mistakes. We have discussed electronic voting here in this Chamber for a long time. It can't be. Everything connected to the Internet is irresponsible, I say to Mr Van Gent. But there are possibilities for electronic counting. Now I understand that the Minister has already experimented with a new model ballot, with a beautiful emblem on it of the parties and the candidates' numbers. The expats, the people abroad, are already allowed to participate. How's that going? And can the Minister tell us when we're finally going to introduce it? There's been a law here before. I loved that at the time. The majority of the Chamber rejected that at that time, but I hear people shouting and saying that we need to count faster and better and that we need to make fewer mistakes. Why is it that the Minister is not prepared to re-table that law? Then I promise her there will be more support in the Chamber right now. I think it is very good to give people abroad, the expats and other people who are abroad more opportunities to vote. I also see that there are all kinds of initiatives to enable facilities at Dutch embassies or in border municipalities. Expats, high-income and high-educated people, make it easier to vote. That's what I'm here for. They're civilians, too. But I also look at many neighbourhoods in the larger cities, where turnout is very low, where many people live with lower income and lower education. That is precisely where the number of polling stations has decreased in recent elections. I totally agree that we need to make it easier for people abroad, the expats, to choose, but I don't understand why we need to make it harder for people in certain neighbourhoods in this country, where there is already a very low turnout. And I certainly do not understand mayors saying: in those neighbourhoods turnout is low, so we are going to set up fewer polling stations there. And then they put the money they're left with in the city treasury. I don't understand, and I find that very difficult. So I also ask the Minister: how are we going to ensure that in the upcoming elections mayors don't reason "in that neighborhood people don't vote so much, so let's just close it there"? I think we should do the opposite: when we see which neighbourhoods have a low turnout, we need to invest extra in them. Not only to invest extra in the expats, but also to invest extra in the citizens of the neighbourhoods where the turnout is now so low. Does the Minister agree with me? Isn't it? I was able to watch television between the companies this afternoon, the debate on the Brexit in the English Parliament. I found it impressive, all those MPs, those people's representatives who went to get the President's attention. They may all ask a question to the Prime Minister, who stands there for hours. I kind of liked it. I thought, "That's better than our little Question Time." But I also saw that it didn't do so much good. I believe that the counter stood at 7 out of 650 parliamentarians. We have to wait and see how the Brexit is going, but it is good that we already have a law today to properly distribute the extra seats for the Netherlands in the European Parliament. I have no objection to that. It's cumbersome, but that's all that's happening right now. So I can agree to it. In the meantime, Mr President, I have also said that we can agree to all three laws. With regard to the European elections, I would like to make a comment on the Kiestekt. After Mr Van Gent and Mr Bosma, I would like to congratulate the Minister on the fact that she has managed to allow this interference from Europe in our elections to the European Parliament to be without consequences. All kinds of measures have been proposed: a threshold, interference with the candidacy, with the procedures. They are all just as decorated as it has no effect on the Netherlands. Then you can say: fine, the European Parliament wants to interfere with our elections, but we set it up in such a way that it does not affect us. I agree, because it does not affect us, but I would like to put a more fundamental question to the Minister. Europe is not a country. The European Commission is not a government. The European Parliament is not the parliament of a united people. I do read in the Deed that Members of the European Parliament are elected as representatives of the citizens of the Union. No, from the Netherlands! The Dutch people in the European Parliament represent the Netherlands. I would like to ask the Minister a more fundamental question: who is actually talking about our elections? European institutions are not about our elections, are they? Because I fear that if we do not, it will become a kind of habit for European institutions here to decide how we are going to organise our elections. If we do not say anything about it, that is quite normal, then that is a step that we have taken. Once again, Mr President, this time we got away with it. It has no effect on us. But what about next time? I would like to make a more fundamental statement on this. Who is talking about the elections we are holding in the Netherlands: European institutions or ourselves? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u11	Mr Van Raak is, of course, also a spokesman for the Antilles. Now I read that there may not be elections at Sint-Eustatius, which is a Dutch municipality. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u12	Hihi, I'm not sure that's entirely within the scope of this debate. I'm sorry about that. I get it. I would have preferred it if we had had elections to the Citizen Council. At Statia there is now a Citizen Council that advises the government commissioner. I would have liked to have had elections before that. Especially at the moment, because of the developments that are there, if Mr Bosma who is watching the Netherlands has also been dragged to court, I do not think it is possible yet. It still hurts me very much, it's still a stone in my shoe that we've had to intervene. I hate that. We have put local democracy out of play there. But if you see what happened there, I have to conclude with the PVV that it was necessary. As a parliament, as parties, we have all agreed to it. In any case, I am pleased to note that the population is very relaxed underneath it and is actually quite hopeful about the developments that are taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u13	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Bosma of the PVV for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Congratulations, of course, to Mr Van Gent. Welcome, I'd say. He made a beautiful historical argument that went way back in time. I strongly recommend that he also do the debate on General Affairs next year. This is an annual hobby debate for historians, in which we discuss the Pacific of Ghent, the position of Prince Maurits and Johan van Oldenbarnevelt. That you did not mention Johan van Oldenbarnevelt will see Mr Van Raak as a personal front. I'm afraid that relationship isn't gonna work out. I have tabled a motion to recognize the Act of Abandonment as a national holiday. The VVD voted against it, while our Ottoman friends from DENK voted for it. Our international socialist friends from GroenLinks have even voted in favour of it, and the VVD votes against it. I'm sorry about that. I found Mr Van Gent's attack on his own group when it came to tax cuts rather spicy. Anyway, I think I'm working on a 25th spokesperson for the VVD I'm going through, so I'd like to congratulate myself. I'm trying to keep track, but they'll be here as soon as they disappear. Mr. Chairman. There is another reason to congratulate myself, namely because a motion from my hand has actually been adopted and implemented. So howdy to the Minister. Driewerf homage and great compliments to her address. Many motions adopted in this house are simply not carried out. It happened that this week it was mentioned in one of the internal bodies of this Parliament, of which I may be a member. The same applies to many commitments made by directors. We can adopt motions as Chambers until we have one way and we can drag promises in from here to Tokyo; it all has very little effect in practice. And we have a lot of motions these days. How much the motion diarrhoea strikes, we saw Tuesday. Then we were voting for more than an hour, including motions about our concern about the Kijfhoek yard, our desire for children to go to school on foot, a ban on rubber bullets on the artificial turf field and the two-year validity period for gift cards. A day not a motion has been tabled, a day has not lived, seems to think many MPs. However, if, from that motion of censure, a motion from the Chamber comes from my hand and is even carried out, then that is reason to be grateful to the Minister. So that's what I'm doing here. I greatly appreciate her support for populism. It is all the more exciting that the Minister is carrying out this motion so perfectly correctly, because the Minister had advised against my motion. She gave a heartfelt opinion: Parliament is all voting against this motion, because implementation is facing major problems. However, the Chamber was in a rebellious mood and adopted my motion, by unanimous vote. After years of sitting behind a cordon sanitary, that's a bit of a shock, of course. I thought for a moment I would turn this motion into a political number and a little bit of a coalition, or to ask out loud why the D66 group fell so hard on her own minister, but I thought: "Ah, this cabinet doesn't need me to make a fool of myself and I'll take D66 another time. You shouldn't always want the best of it. And besides, count your blessings." The adoption and implementation of a motion teaches us that we should not take it seriously if this minister comes up with a negative opinion. She says she can't, but with a little bit of pressure, she's working merry. We have to remember that for the future. Once again, I would like to pay tribute to the Minister, despite her negative advice, for carrying out this motion in a sporting manner, and for doing so in a very correct manner. It is not unimportant that it happens, as this proposal amends the Election Act and regulates that the minutes of the polling offices and the statements of mayors with total votes of the municipalities are made public in a generally accessible manner on the municipal website. Such disclosure shall take place immediately after the mayor has determined the voting totals of the municipality. The publication shall apply to any election as provided for in the Election Act, including the First Chamber elections. This change will make the electoral process more transparent. The proposal for electronic disclosure will improve the monitoring of the electoral process. It is a good thing that this step is taken. My group is therefore strongly considering voting in favour of the amendment of the law. The PVV is not in favour of the experimental law. The regular electoral process should simply be perpetuated. There's nothing wrong with voting with pencil and paper. At best, the process can be improved by introducing some additional controls. With additional electronic tools or voting machines, there is an uncontrollable process in which costs cannot be predicted. Cretans like "we have to go with our time" are always the stop-jacks of people who have no arguments. We shouldn't go with our time at all. Mr Van Gent spoke of conservatives and liberals. The assignment for a conservative is exactly what William F. Buckley said, namely "stand atthwart history, yelling stop." In other words: stand before the course of history and shout "stop." The last proposal on the agenda relates to the system of allocating additional seats to the Netherlands in the EU Parliament, after Britain has left hell. The position of my party is clear: we strongly oppose the anti-democratic and colonialist monstrosity in Brussels, which is called the EU and also the European Parliament, which is neither European nor a parliament. Now, on a proposal from Germany, the EU is also being provided with an army that is going to protect us from America, the country that freed us from the Germans. Germany wins on all fronts. Then we also have EUvsDisinfo, to make sure we don't get the wrong ideas and just start thinking for ourselves. That so-called parliament should not be given more seats, but more precisely 751 seats less. For example, the charming personality Juncker can dedicate himself in peace to fighting his chronic back condition. The cosmopolitan people think that the course of history is inevitable and that we are silently marching towards the European superstate with Frau Merkel, raised in the GDR, as head of a European army that guides us towards the overthrow. But here too, Buckley's adage applies, in other words: we stand for the course of history and cry "stop." Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u15	Thank you. That brings us to the last speaker: Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to add my congratulations to Mr Van Gent on his beautiful, historically loaded maiden speech. I oppose the temptation to enter into discussion here about the liberal histories of the origin of the Eighty Years' War: is it pro religion or is it pro libertate, or is it perhaps something of both? I think we should discuss this at a later date. Mr. Chairman. What we do agree on is that at that time the contours of the current Netherlands and the associated democratic model were already outlined, without, of course, being aware of them. After that, a very long development took place. But very basic things have already been pronounced and embraced. That's a big good. We must nurture that. Mr. Chairman. The three legislative proposals before us have all been made by colleagues. With regard to the legislative proposal on disclosure, we wholeheartedly agree that electronic disclosure is possible. This is a first step in improving the electoral process and its clarity and transparency. We look forward to the follow-up legislative proposal on the recovery of certain other omissions. I would like to dwell on one point: the publication of the minutes on a central website. We very much agree that this is happening, but I would point out that the electoral results database of the Election Council already contains data from a very large number of elections. Would it not be wise to link the official minutes to them, so that there is one central database with the election results? Mr. Chairman. With regard to the amendment concerning the experiments with voices from abroad, it is fine that all kinds of measures are taken to facilitate this. In fact, these are a number of practical proposals which ensure that the threshold for participation in the elections is as low as possible. My question here is whether it is sufficient to ensure that a person cannot vote in two ways. We are curious about the results of the various experiments. Then there is the third proposal: the allocation of additional seats for the Netherlands in the European Parliament. I would also like to emphasise here that, as far as we are concerned, the consequence of the UK's departure from the EU should have been to reduce the number of seats in the European Parliament. That discussion was over. Three additional seats should be allocated for the Netherlands. That must of course be done properly. My first question is whether it is the intention to establish the normal result after 23 May and the distribution of the additional seats. Or is that stretched a little further in time? Mr. Chairman. The final distribution of seats should be as close as possible to the proportional distribution of the votes that would apply if there were 29 seats for the Netherlands at present. Ideally, the seats will be re-established after enlargement, but we can also see that this may have a negative impact on those who have already been elected on 23 May because of the distribution of seats. That is why the current proposal to consider the three additional seats to be residual seats and to proceed according to those principles of accession is the most reasonable alternative. This is certainly true because we are in fact dealing with a transitional situation here too. In the subsequent elections, we will no longer have this discussion unless other countries have left the EU. Mr. Chairman. I'll leave it at that. We look forward to the Minister's answers to the questions asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u17	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. The Minister has indicated that she can respond immediately to the questions asked. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, my congratulations to Mr Van Gent for his maiden speech; his historic maiden speech, you might say. Whatever history will show for your future here in Parliament, historically your speech was certain. I liked that you brought up a grand tour of the States General. The life of the Minister of BZK is one great tour through the Netherlands. I enjoy that every day. Mr. Chairman. I will answer the questions along the lines of the three proposals before us. Maybe I can start with a comment on the first proposal: to make the minutes public. This is indeed happening on the basis of a motion by Mr Bosma which has been adopted, even unanimously. I'm gonna do that motion. That's how it works in our democracy. I thought Mr Van Raak would add: and so quickly. That is what he has added to me on another proposal. Yeah, as fast as you can. I think it's good that we're doing this now. I will immediately include a few questions that look forward to the future. Mrs Den Boer said, and Mr Bishop actually completed that, that she is looking forward to the legislative proposal that regulates the entry of those documents on a central website. There will be, but that will be a little further in the future. Let's take it one step at a time. We can now quickly realize the publication of the minutes through the municipalities. We are working to ensure that, in a legislative proposal Adaptation procedure fixing election results, the municipalities place the minutes on a central website. I'm now mapping out what it takes to set up that central website. So I say to Mr Bishop: yes, that is better. That is also the final objective, but it cannot be so soon that it will apply to the next election. I would prefer simply to introduce the disclosure of the minutes. The central website will follow up on that. I say to Mrs Den Boer that this is the time to answer the question of how long the documents will remain on the website. That will be discussed later. Mrs Den Boer pointed out that there were concerns, including at the UNG, about the disclosure of the names of election offices. She asked if that's necessary. Members of the election bureau shall be appointed by the College of B and W. They have a public function. On the day of the vote, that public function shall be exercised in public. The names are on the report, that's right, that's filled in manually. In the context of transparency, everything becomes public. There is one element that we do regulate in the legislative proposal, namely that the signatures of the electoral board members are not made public, because of the risk of improper use of those personal data. With regard to the disclosure of the minutes, Mr Van Raak pointed out that errors could arise. That can happen, of course. He also said that at that time there is no possibility of correcting it, and he is right about that. This regulates disclosure, but this does not yet ensure that there may also be a correction. I would like that correction, but it has to be for that. I am working on the legislative proposal that makes it possible to correct any errors as far as possible in order to determine the outcome. Then I will go to the electorate abroad, on which there are a number of questions and comments. Mrs Özütok thought it was a good proposal, but she felt it was important to monitor carefully the way in which what is being proposed here is being used and to get back to it. In addition, she asked how the border municipalities are involved in preventing abuse of the new legal possibilities available at the border municipalities. The Council of State has also said something about this. Following the opinion of the Council of State, it was again examined whether the establishment of letter polling offices in border municipalities could have any negative consequences. I have looked very closely at it and I really do not think this is the case, because the bill does not change the number of voters who can vote from abroad. The number of voters who can vote by letter from abroad will not increase, nor will the procedure be changed, so there must be a registration request with an address abroad, and that will then come to the city of The Hague, before voting documents will be sent. In addition, the legislative proposal provides for the establishment of letter polling offices at the border municipalities, if the B and W College in that municipality agrees to that proposal. We need to monitor everything and come back to that, but I think there are sufficient guarantees to say that there can be no abuse of it. Mrs Özütok also asked about the registration period from fourteen days to seven days. This issue has also been looked at very carefully, as Mrs Özütok has seen, because it has been discussed in detail in the note on the report. Because it's a concern of hers, I'll say it again. The so-called pre-opening by the letter-voting offices should not begin as long as it is possible to apply for a replacement letter-voting certificate. If that is not the case, it cannot be ruled out that the voter's vote has already been opened by the ballot office, while the same voter has requested and still receives a replacement ballot. So that voter could cast a second vote. At present, the permanent registration counts around 70,000 voters abroad. This is less than the number of voters registered in the Dutch Parliamentary elections in 2017, when the deadline for the opening of seven days was set. So I think those seven days are enough. In my letter of 15 June, I announced a legislative proposal to amend the Kiedswet, in which the process of determining the results will be redesigned. My expectation is that that bill will also allow more time to get the votes from abroad to the letter polls, so that those votes can still be counted. Then I'll take another look at that opening. That's a bill the Chamber can expect next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u19	Then I get very curious. Can the Minister also indicate in what month or in what season we can expect this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u20	At least that's in the first half of next year. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Den Boer asked if there are any bottlenecks that prevent people from registering, because that is indeed less than you would expect. We do not have any concrete obstacles. It is of course made easier by permanent registration. Undoubtedly there are Dutch people abroad who are helped with that.We all hear that sometimes because after that one registration you are through. You don't have to do it every time. I know that the city of The Hague is doing everything in its power to promote this possibility of registration. However, we cannot very well explain why Dutch people are registering abroad. Does this have to do with their involvement in the Netherlands and Dutch politics, does it simply have to do with the fact that people are not doing enough or do they really not need to be involved? We don't know exactly. Mrs Den Boer said that she liked the fact that when we elected the European Parliament we would also set up letter polls in the European capitals. It is true that on the day of the vote until 3 p.m. the letter vote can be delivered in person to the letter polling offices. This applies to the European capitals, but that also applies elsewhere. The same rule therefore applies wherever those letter voting offices are, because that is the option provided by the Election Act. This can also be done at the letter polls at the representation of the Netherlands on Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten. Mrs Den Boer also asked about the plans to see if we could also influence the composition of the Upper House abroad. She actually asked, "Can you give me a hint of the veil?" I find that difficult. We're in the process of mapping out the options. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Den Boer for a little patience on that point. She nods. Thank you. Then the EP seats. First of all, Mrs Özütok. She asked why a separate temporary scheme was chosen instead of inclusion in the Kieswet. I thought Mr Bishop argued about the opposite. This possible interim allocation of additional EP seats is a very special matter. I think it is very difficult to say what can happen in the future in the EU. Should we make a general arrangement for this? I think it makes more sense to say that something very special is happening right now, up to and including the fact that we do not know exactly when it will occur. I assume it will occur, but in theory the Brexit can also be postponed and occur only after the European elections. In short, these are all reasons for putting it into a temporary legal arrangement rather than into a permanent arrangement in the Kieswet. I would like to say to Mr Bishop that this is due to the situation in which the Brexit takes place later. That's why we're taking care of it now. And then according to the method that Mr Bishop also wants to support: the electorate goes down. If the Brexit is just a fact, then it actually goes right in and then we go straight to those 29 seats. Mr Van Raak asked me, above all, 'on account of' who is actually talking about our elections. Well, the Netherlands is about his own election. Absolutely! There's no doubt about that. But, of course, before the elections to the European Parliament, there is also European legislation that we must take into account. And that's what we're gonna do. Mr. Chairman. There have been a number of other questions that are not directly related to any of the three proposals, but of course I am going to answer them. First of all, Mrs Den Boer. She pointed out support for experimenting with voters with intellectual disabilities. We've talked about that before. She felt that it would take a long time for proposals to be made. If we want to experiment with this, we need legislation and elections. The upcoming elections are coming very soon. After that, elections will only be scheduled for 2021. Of course, we'll have to get it. She also asked about early voting in relation to people with intellectual disabilities. I think it is indeed good to let them also be part of the early voting experiments. That could also be part of the solution, because that is a form of customization. You can make the conditions suitable for people with learning difficulties. There may be less pressure than when people are standing in queues in a polling station. Finally, the new ballot. Mr Van Raak asked for it. I promised your Chamber in the spring to make proposals for these new ballots, which can be counted electronically. I heard Mr Van Raak. Apparently, he's going to help, and I welcome that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u21	Sure. I'm going to help the Minister with that. Let's get back to Europe. The Minister talks a little bit about it and says: of course we are talking about our own elections. Well, I like to hear a D66'er say that, because here on this side of the Chamber I hear other sounds. But we have that deed and no one here wants it: except for D66, no one wants it here. There's all these things in there that we don't want. And in Europe, we have negotiated that all measures are being taken, but they do not affect us all. That's actually a show, isn't it? Because if we hadn't won it, for example, we would have had a electoral threshold. Our democracy would have become less democratic, from our point of view. So it is no longer necessary to ask the question in principle: what does Europe really interfere with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u22	Mr Van Raak may, of course, ask that question. But he is throwing up a fictional situation that is not happening right now. I take it as a compliment that Mr Van Raak said: this all looks really good. So let's not make any problems that aren't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u23	I put a question of principle on the table. We are here in a practical way, via all kinds of U-turns, detours, side streets and main paths, just got out. I congratulated the Minister on that. But I am concerned about the fundamental issue. "Members of the European Parliament shall be elected as representatives of the citizens of the Union'. It's even tilted. In my opinion, a lot of parties in the Netherlands think very differently about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u24	And your question to the Minister is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u25	What is Europe interfering with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u26	I think that's a repeat. And I think the Minister has already answered that. Anyway, I'm giving the Minister a chance to add something new.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u27	This is simply a political view or a political view of Mr Van Raak. That's okay, of course. I don't want to deny him that at all. But I simply note that in practice there can be all kinds of different views, including political ones, but that there are no problems with these proposals now. So, of course, we can debate ideologically until we have a way, but we are not affected by the proposals made in this electoral act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u28	Mr. Van Raak, you'll only get the floor if you want to ask for something new. It's a little out of order, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u29	Finally, I would like to point out that this Chamber is also there for ideological debates and for positions of principle, especially when it comes to the relationship between Europe and the Netherlands, and especially when it comes to the establishment of our democracy. That is why I think the Minister's answer is very inadequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u30	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u31	Yeah, let's see. I answered Mr Van Raak's question about the ballot. Then the polling stations. Mr Van Raak welcomed the opportunity for Dutch people to vote abroad, but pointed out that all Dutch people should also be able to vote in the Netherlands. I agree with him 100%. In my opinion, we also do a lot about it, and so do the municipalities. The municipalities must, of course, designate the polling stations. Mr Van Raak knows that. Apparently, he's made some indications that some of the trade-offs I don't know have been made. I have no indications that there are too few polling stations in municipalities, or that polling stations are closed or not designated, as Mr Van Raak suggested. I don't have any information to back that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u32	I'll send it to the minister. In the 2016 referendum on Ukraine, a number of municipalities have made the point: there is little vote in certain neighbourhoods, so there is no need for a polling station. In a number of cases, these polling stations never came back. The argument was: turnout is low, so we make fewer polling stations. I would like to hear from the Minister that she takes the view that, when the turnout is low, we should offer more facilities, more polling stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u33	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u34	Mr Van Raak says so. I don't have that information, but I do agree with him that a low turnout can't be a reason not to have a polling room. You have to allow people to vote. The municipalities are responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u35	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u36	Sure, but I actually think I can finish my speech. I know that Mr Bishop has also asked a number of questions, but I think I have answered them all in the section before. That brings me to the end of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u37	Well, look at that. I'll take a look at the members. I don't think there's a need for a second term. Oh, I see Mrs Den Boer needs that. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Den Boer from D66 for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. I understand that I still need to be patient on a number of points, so I will. About the Dutch voting abroad and the bottlenecks that voters are experiencing, the minister said that she cannot quite explain that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas only 80,660 Dutch registered abroad to vote in the Dutch Parliament elections in 2017;]] [[whereas the permanent registration introduced in 2017 now counts around 70,000 voters from abroad, despite various information campaigns from the City of The Hague and the government;]] [[noting that nearly 1 million Dutch are resident abroad and only a small proportion of them participate in elections;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to promote the emergence of voters abroad and how to remove bottlenecks in registration;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Boer and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35012-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u39	I see the Minister wants to give her appreciation of the one motion that has been tabled. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u40	Certainly, Mr President, but may I come back to one point? I should have just said that to Mr Bosma, who unfortunately is not here today. As far as the Acts are concerned, however, I should like to point out that at the time it was not recommended that his motion had to do with the fact that there was no legal basis at the time for the publication of the minutes. That's exactly what we're creating. For the sake of completeness, I just wanted to report that. Then there is the motion by Mr Den Boer and Mr Sjoerdsma. I have just said that we do not know very well and we do not know enough. The motion calls for an investigation. I don't think that's a crazy idea at all. I would like to involve the city of The Hague, because of course it has a very important role in this; even more so, it is responsible for this. If I can do this together with the city of The Hague, I would like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u41	Thank you, that's a clear judgment. But there is another factual question from Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u42	I always get a warm heart when I see how many positive feelings and thoughts D66 people have to promote the emergence of expats in elections abroad. But is the Minister also prepared to investigate the emergence of voters in neighborhoods, cities and villages in the Netherlands where the turnout is currently very low?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u43	Every Dutchman living abroad may be strictly an expat. But I would also like to say to Mr Van Raak that there are all kinds of Dutch people living abroad, not just the type of expat and the image that Mr Van Raak calls for. When it comes to the question of whether we also want to investigate the issue of turnout in the Netherlands, I can say that we know more about this. That doesn't make the problem any less serious, but we know much more about it. There are many agencies in the Netherlands, for example the SCP and such institutions, which have a view on this. I have a positive basic position, but this is a very different matter. Perhaps we should talk about this at another time. I think it is a little too short to give shape to it here, by means of a commitment. But my basic attitude is positive in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u44	Thank you. That still raises a question. We are talking about a motion that has been tabled, so we are not going to have a whole new debate on an issue arising from this motion. I give you the opportunity to ask one more question about the motion that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u45	Thank you for all the Minister's comments. She wants to leave a study of the rise of voters abroad to the Chamber, and in principle she is also in favour of a study of the turnout in certain neighbourhoods in the Netherlands where it is very low. I will certainly come up with a proposal. I congratulate the Minister and I welcome her basic attitude in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u46	I do not hear a question in that, but rather an initiative that will come from Mr Van Raak. That brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-21.u47	Vote on the one motion that has been tabled will take place next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Minister for her contribution, as well as the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home.
