ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome everyone, including the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. We will begin with the VAO JHA Council of 4 and 5 June 2018. I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that violence is the case in Afghanistan and that it is stated on behalf of the United Nations that the country is at war;]] [[Whereas, in the short term, the statement of office will be published in Afghanistan;]] [[believes that it is necessary to prevent people from being sent back to Afghanistan, whereas this was not necessary on the basis of the new notice;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a decision and departure Moratorium until the Chamber has been able to discuss the new message of office and the policy of returning to Afghanistan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-514]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I have one motion relating to border control. We are all, of course, very much in favour of ensuring that borders are well guarded. We all agree that there is still room for improvement at the moment. But now the budget has been proposed to triple, and that is a little too short for us, at least at the moment, because there is no justification for it. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that on 2 May 2018, the European Commission published a multiannual budget note for the period 2021-2027;]] [[Considering that this budget triples the budget for border management, migration and asylum to EUR 35 billion without providing a sound basis;]] [[considers that a sound justification is fundamental for, inter alia, the acquisition of support in the Member States;]] [[calls on the Government to vote against the tripled budget for border management, migration and asylum in the future JHA Rays and other consultations at EU level, as long as there is no proper justification for this tripling,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-515]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u4	I have a question for Mr Bishop because I do not fully understand the motion. We can have a discussion with each other on the basis of the European Commission's proposals under the new MFF, the Multiannual Financial Framework, and this discussion will also be confirmed in the debates on the MFF. But the SGP should also be pleased that the European Commission has decided to triple the budget for border and migration management in the proposals. In other words, the Commission wishes to attach great importance to this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u5	That's a fair question. Of course, we believe that good border control should be set up with everything that is related to it, better than it is now. The first question is whether this requires a triple budget. We don't have an insight into that right now. The motion should also be seen a little in the light of the claim made by the European Commission in that budget paper on further budget increases. The question is whether you should not take that extra money out of the budget elsewhere and whether you should not seek a redeployment of tasks. That is why it is too short for us to start tripled at the moment. In this sense, the motion also clearly has a signal function: people, pay attention!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u6	Finally, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u7	Yes, very briefly. I fully understand that, but that is an integral part of the MFF in general. The justification and the recast take place there. But if the Commission adopts a proposal for an ambition, which is actually to invest more in border control and migration management, then you should welcome it. Then I would like to say to Mr Bishop that he must table a motion on the MFF in general and not specifically on this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u8	A very short response?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u9	Sure. It is, in a sense, right that this motion should read the operative part just as well after the decision is not taken against the tripling. The motion does demand that there be careful support. Only then will you be able to make that assessment. This will, of course, be part of the whole debate on the budget in the MFF.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u10	But I'm a little surprised about the foundation of the SGP. If I have heard them grumbling about Europe over the past few years, it was certainly the case that investments had to be made in the area of security and migration. If, in the eyes of the SGP, Europe was still good for something, it was for cooperation on these issues. I find it so strange that you are tabling a motion that no money can go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u11	I am fighting the image as if the SGP would only be positive about the EU in the sphere of security and border control. We have a much broader vision of and broader appreciation for the EU. We only have strong criticism of certain aspects of EU policy, of the policy pursued by the European Commission, with the Council's backing. However, I would urge you to read this motion carefully. It's not about rejecting budget increases. It is only a matter of emphasising that, if you come up with increases, they must have a good basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u12	You did say that a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u13	Exactly, but that question has also been repeated a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u14	Yeah, that's right. Now for another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u15	Probably because it's unclear. I read here that the SGP is resisting an increase in the budget to address the asylum issue, which, when I heard the SGP in recent years, was about the only thing that Europe was good for. So it's kind of a weird motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr President, I am sorry, but this is a repeat of a certain frame: the SGP is against the EU and only in the field of asylum can the EU do well in the eyes of the SGP. Apologies, chairman, but I want this image corrected. The SGP has many positive words about the EU, but also many critical words. The EU's appreciation is much wider than in the area of asylum and migration and the emphasis on the need to address it properly. Again, I don't know which glasses are put on, but it says: at least as long as that justification is not given. This simply means that there is room for it, but the EU must provide a sound basis. In my view, this is simply a matter of careful decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u17	It's in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u18	Yes, very clearly. Anyone can read it, right? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u19	I hope so, indeed. Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr President, thank you very much, and I apologize for being a little late, so we couldn't keep the right order. Mr. Chairman. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Secretary of State for the results of the JHA Council. I understand from the media over the last few days that all the compromise proposals that were on the table about Dublin have unfortunately fallen. How do we proceed and what is the Secretary of State's commitment? Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his commitment last week to advocate at the Council the removal of obstacles in providing perspective to refugees in Jordan. We talked about this extensively at that time. If we want to accommodate people in the region, it is very important, as far as I am concerned, that there are no bureaucratic obstacles to education and work. For example, people have perspective and prospects for a dignified existence. I am curious to see what the responses were to this point and I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State when we can see the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. I see the Secretary of State can respond immediately. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by addressing the two questions put by Mr Groothuizen. He was right to read in the press that no decisions were taken on Tuesday, not on parts of the GEAS and therefore not on the GEAS package as a whole. He gave the qualification that everything was killed. This is not the case, because all parts of the proposals have indicated Member States' concerns. Given these reservations, the Presidency then decided not to go into any further conclusions and to go back to the preparatory work. The next opportunity to discuss this is at the European Council at the end of this month. If agreement is not reached, it will be at the informal JHA Council in Innsbruck in mid-July. That does not alter the fact that the views are far apart. That's no secret either. In fact, last week in the AO, I gave a preview of the fact that it is complicated to reach a compromise on this issue, which also means an improvement on the current situation for the Netherlands. Then there is the question of Jordan. In line with my commitment, I have called on colleagues to pay close attention to the fulfilment of all the commitments made in the EU-Jordan Declaration. I saw several representatives of Member States nodding that and then the conclusions were actively supported by the European Commissioner that this is an effort he is monitoring from the European Commission and calling on the Member States to honour all the commitments made therein. Then I'll come to the motions. Mr Van Dijk had his motion in part No. 514 already announced. We have already debated this issue in the AA. The state of affairs is that soon the thematic message of office will be security. I said in the AO that I expected it to be there on 11 June, so next Monday. Based on the last message I have, I'm not sure that's gonna work out exactly Monday. It's being finalized, but it could be a few days later. If I say it will be later, then it is not in terms of weeks but in terms of number of days. We'll do our best to make sure it's still there in the middle of next week. That message of office gives us an overview of the security situation now. What I have also said to the Chamber before is that it is never a static one. The previous post was dated two years ago, but in the meantime, asylum applications have been assessed not only from the previous post and the current country policy, but also from the current situation. That will continue until we have formulated a new country policy on the basis of the upcoming post. It is always an individual check whether people need protection and cannot return or do not need protection and can return. For this reason, I would like to discourage the motion and not proceed to an overall decision and departure Moratorium. Then there is Mr Bishop's motion on item No. 515. He had also announced this topic in the AA. The MFF is working in such a way that before an overall decision is made after negotiations in the coming period, it is obviously clear that we will know exactly where the money is going in the MFF and for what purpose it is being used. So in that sense, the motion says nothing but what the route will be on the way to the new MFK. What I said in this regard is that I attach great importance to the European Union increasing the budgets for migration, and certainly for border management, which is the first step in the first proposal for the MFF, and that this will be further developed in the coming period. All parts of the MFF are subject to proposals on how that money is going to be used. Then I see the motion in the light of what this signal would be for Europe. I have listened very carefully to Mr Bishop in his contribution just now. He also said that this motion has a clear signal function. It is precisely for this reason that I would not like to give the signal of: The Netherlands already has objections to increasing the budget for migration and border management. I therefore think it is wise that this motion should not be adopted. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u23	I would like to add a few comments to that appreciation. I am not going to repeat the discussion, of course, but I would urge the Secretary of State to look at the operative part. It does not say that we are turning in advance against tripling. It just says, whatever is inspired by stories about inefficiency and so on, that we want to know for sure that if we invest the 35 billion, this will happen well, and that this money will not go to massive bureaucracy, for example, which we would not be able to support at all. So it is indeed just a signal to ensure that you come up with a strong foundation. Then it can count on our support. But as long as that's not the case, we'll make a pass on the spot. That's what the operative part says. In fact, I would expect the Secretary of State to find this a form of policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u24	Well, I'm gonna take it one step further. It is precisely because proposals that are always well-founded in the final MFF countries that I listen very carefully to Mr Bishop when he says that he is tabling this motion, that he is putting on paper how things have always been up to now and how things should always be in the future and that he wants a motion to be adopted on this as a signal that we are going to be extra on top of this. This motion will be read not only in the Netherlands, but also in Brussels and other Member States. I can assure Mr Bishop that there is a single signal, namely what almost every Member State in Europe wants: an increase in the budget for asylum and border management. The Netherlands is questioning that. Then Mr Bishop can say that this is not the signal he is referring to, but that is the signal he is getting. For that reason, I would find it highly unwise to adopt this motion and advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u25	Finally, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u26	Then I would say that it is a fine challenge for the Secretary of State and his staff to explain that we want to support it, but that we do not randomly agree with all kinds of proposals. There's got to be a solid foundation. There is a great risk that the budget will be increased and that we think that it will work out, while the effective measures will not be chosen. That is why I want extra care in this budget provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u27	We will continue to repeat the debate, but these measures will become clear before the MFF is adopted. We know where the needs lie. We know that the needs are with Frontex, with the European Border and Coast Guard, with additional people watching. And, of course, it is a task for the European Union in all areas to ensure that the money is used efficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u29	We shall be voting on the motions tabled this afternoon.
