ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the report by the Committee on Fiscal Structures. A warm welcome to three heads of government, the Minister of Finance, the Secretary of State for Finance and the Minister for Legal Protection. We have a full house in box K. Welcome, everyone. We have eight speakers from the Chamber. Every participant has four minutes of speaking time, but unfortunately, because the previous debate ended a little, it only lasts 30 seconds. But, yes, you may add something, then. But I didn't want to do any night work today, with your permission. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Alkaya and he speaks on behalf of the SP. He has four minutes of speaking time. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, let me see if I need that time. I suspect so, but we'll see. In addition to the harsh reality that this cabinet is actually trying to reduce the tax burden on multinationals to historically low levels, our country still has a paper reality of letterbox companies, trust offices and so-called tax advisors with only one goal: even less tax for the rich and multinationals. The smokescreen they raise for this has no borders and no moral limits. When the Panama Papers came out, in 2016, the tip of the veil was lifted. It became clear how an elite of super rich and multinational companies avoid billions of taxes at the expense of societies worldwide. After many ifs and buts there was a parliamentary interrogation committee, in which my party colleague Renske Leijten participated. Their findings are not mild. More than 4,000 billion flows through the Netherlands every year without landing in this country. For the sake of understanding, that is 50 times what we spend annually on the whole care. An astronomical and non-containable amount. With all kinds of creative constructions, companies remain just within the limits of the law and pay hardly any tax in the Netherlands and often not at all in other countries. According to Oxfam, multinationals avoid over 100 billion in taxpayers' money in poor countries. Does the cabinet think this is fair? The Netherlands is the third largest tax haven on earth, says Oxfam. If we are not already tax havens with this kind of money, which country is, I ask the cabinet. This isn't gonna solve itself. A quote from the report. "The Committee was given the impression during the hearings that the parties mentioned were not themselves prepared to give further details of the act in accordance with the spirit of the law. Legislation often seems to be appropriate for those involved in the design of constructions for the morality they respect." Makes sense, because you're not asking a bird to tie its own wings. Wings they have received as a gift from neoliberal parties such as the VVD and the CDA over the years. Although it is immoral that the multinationals concerned do not keep to the spirit of the law on their own and do not simply pay their fair share of taxes, it is the incumbent policy that has allowed this to happen for years. The Panama Papers brought to light a case that should have been brought to light earlier. Is it not time to investigate how we can really help our tax administration, for example by increasing the burden of proof in cases of suspected tax avoidance or even turning it around completely? Are you internationally engaged with all kinds of foreign parent-and-subsidiary companies and/or steal your assets abroad, fine, but if in doubt, show the Tax Administration that this has legitimate reasons and lands in the real economy, and not just tax constructions to avoid tax. Mr. Chairman. The interrogation committee has managed to get a lot out of the table and interview people who had not shown up without obligation. But the committee could not confiscate documents and had to do its preliminary examination on the basis of public documents. As a result, a lot of things could be kept secret in those interviews. In such a complex and acute situation, it feels somewhat unsatisfactory. The bottom stone should be above in the Netherlands when it comes to tax avoidance. That is why the SP now wants to go through with a parliamentary committee of inquiry into tax avoidance and evasion. I shall propose to the Chamber that the Bureau be asked to set up a preparatory committee for such a parliamentary committee. Let me repeat once again the figures: 4 000 billion is sucking through the Netherlands every year, causing developing countries to lose 100 billion tax revenues, with all the consequences of this: inequality, poverty, expatriation and migration. It is our duty to do this. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Omtzigt from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank those colleagues who worked in the interrogation committee. We can discuss whether that was the right parliamentary means for such a very comprehensive subject, but it has led to very high-profile interrogations. In this house we will have to talk later about the question of when we will use that mini-survey. We have now used it mainly in a form of intermediate form. That is also why Mr Alkaya wants to propose a survey, I understand. But in my opinion she was also more meant for if you want to hear some people very quickly. Now that has gone half-extensive. The Committee of Inquiry has presented a number of recommendations. If I had the Committee of Inquiry here, I would like to ask what measures we should take on the basis of the interviews, in addition to the measures already announced. Because this cabinet has taken a good package of measures and has also explicitly as an objective to stop letting the Netherlands be a transit country. Mr Alkaya mentioned the 4,000 billion. I would like to ask the Minister or the Secretary of State to make a zero assessment of how large the flow is now and to report annually how far it has decreased. It is an official objective of policy not to allow the Netherlands to be a transit country. I really don't expect it to go from 4,000 to zero in a year. I know it's gonna be hard, but it's okay to keep track of that. Is the government prepared to report annually, for example on Princess Day, on how much flow that year was, how far it has decreased and what effect the measures have had? We will then be able to see whether additional measures are needed or whether measures might be overkill. In any case, what has become even clearer from the interviews is that there is still a great deal wrong in the trust business and that there is a bad morality in which responsibility plays no part at all. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister in a general sense what is the point of allowing trust offices to give an address for service and to provide directors. In fact, I find these trust services rather absurd, because they seem to imply that there is a transit company or a mailbox company. Of course, as a trust office, you can mediate or advise on a good business property that suits a company, or help you find Commissioners. But if you as a company have no address and no driver and you need a trust office for that, are you a Dutch company? DNB has also been warning about the serious abuses in the sector for years. Isn't it weird that this particular sector is allowed to perform the important gatekeeper function? What would be the result, for example for the Tax Administration, if it were no longer allowed to do so for transit companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u5	I am very pleased to hear this from Mr Omtzigt, because it is actually a key question: do you want to have up to 20,000 companies, throughflow companies in the Netherlands and for which directors are provided by trust offices that are not actually directors in this country? Does the CDA now throw up that question and say it in so many words: perhaps we should not want that at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u6	The coalition agreement is pretty clear. We want an end to the flow and we will do so con amore. My question is therefore very precise: is it not possible to allow this post, namely the place of residence, if it is a transit company, and what problems would it encounter? I would like to have a further reaction from the government to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u7	This is a big, serious step and I welcome it. I will also comment on it in my own contribution. The second thing Mr Omtzigt mentioned is the gatekeeper function. We saw it yesterday at ING, a big international bank: they are already failing. Does Mr Ometzigt think that offices with a number of people are sometimes employing five or ten people at a trust office......................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u8	I see the problems with small offices, if that is Mr Nijboer's question, but it is not just a problem with small offices. You can't blame ING for having too few employees to control that, I'm just saying to the minister, who was rightly angry. I would like to emphasise that here too. I find it really unheard of that ING didn't carry out checks on money laundering for six years and that the director had himself given himself a decent salary increase, which he publicly defended here. I invite him to do so again, given what has now come to light. I am also very curious to see what will be coming from the government about the settlement that has been struck by the prosecution. Remember: the CDA was already angry about the settlement with the Rabobank in the Libor affair, for which no banker came to court here, but in London. I am curious to see why ING is now doing the same. Mr. Chairman. I would like to add another measure which is not part of the report of the interrogation committee. I noticed that in almost all these constructions there is a foundation. Foundations that run a company in the Netherlands and in other countries are, as far as I know, simply liable to tax. So this isn't going to happen that often for tax reasons. But a foundation doesn't have a deposit obligation. So, if you're gonna keep an eye on a case, you're gonna have to put a foundation in there somewhere. We have made sure that anbi's are required to publish, but I think it is even more important that large foundations should simply deposit their annual accounts. I have to say that there is also a small thing about the supervision of the deposit of accounts. Does the government want to make it possible to make it a little quick in a law that deposit large foundations, so that it is clear that this cannot be used to create fog about what is really going on? Mr. Chairman. I would have liked to say something about supervision, but that has been addressed by the Audit Act. So, I have one final question about the exchange of rulings. In the last year, has the European Commission requested information on rulings or specific rulings from the Netherlands? If so, on which rulings? Can the Minister and/or Secretary of State of Finance update the number of countries that requested the underlying ruling in 2017 and the number of standard forms on rulings sent by country? It is clear that those last questions can also be answered in writing. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u9	Very good. Thank you. Then Mr Van Weyenberg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, would like to begin by thanking the Members and the staff, let me not forget, of the parliamentary interrogation committee, for all their efforts, insights and lessons drawn. That is what we are debating today about...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman. It was special, however, the first time this instrument, chaired by Mr Nijboer, with a duty to vote and to be heard under oath. With this we have really added an extra part to our parliamentary instruments, especially when compared to a hearing where people sometimes do not come or cannot be forced to tell the truth. When I saw those interviews, sometimes I thought of a scene from A Few Good Men. I think you know that movie: Jack Nicholson as Colonel Jessup in the dock, who is being questioned by and by Tom Cruise, who has to interrogate him as a lieutenant. That colonel's going around, 'cause there's nothing going on. Yes, I had that feeling with the committee when she was told that the Rolling Stones and U2 are not in Amsterdam for tax reasons at all. And also when someone who was questioned argued that the Cayman Islands is not a tax haven, but a tax-neutral jurisdiction. My addition for the next time I play a game, because I had rarely put those letters in a row. After a long time of questioning, it turned out that part of the trust sector simply didn't take it so closely with the rules. People don't think outsiders need to understand that at all. Or, to quote Colonel Jessup, you can't handle the truth. Fortunately, the committee was not satisfied with that. The title of the report or report is: Paper reality. As far as I'm concerned, that sums it up very nicely. We can pierce through these structures thanks to the work of the colleagues and the staff. I am pleased that since the cabinet took office, sometimes building on things that the previous cabinet had set in motion, a number of lessons from this report have been converted into strengthened policies. From paper to practice, from paper to reality. Mr. Chairman. I would ask the rulers to reflect on the underlying core of that report, namely culture. Culture! How does this sector actually take up its own work? How do they look at it? Then there's the trust offices. Not all of these offices fill in the role of gatekeeper. So it turns out. We have previously, together with the Socialist Party, drawn attention to the fact that DNB oversees more than 200 licence holders with twelve people. Is that really enough? What was the verdict of DNB at the end of September? Is that cultural change, in the opinion of the rulers, really guaranteed in the end? Yes, the number of licence holders is falling: 299 trust offices in 2013 and 209 now. But there's a lot of questions left. Doesn't that decrease mean, for example, that a kind of shadow trust sector is growing? I'd like a response from the Minister. How large is this group of non-licensed service providers? How does the Minister and De Nederlandsche Bank actually supervise this? I'd like a response. Mr Omtzig asked for an address for service. I have the same question. We want to get rid of all this flow. That is clearly stated in the coalition agreement. It doesn't add anything. What is the situation with regard to the right of residence and the transfer companies? What can and should not be looked at in greater depth? The zero measurement when it comes to the flow, of which I, also in the thought that a withholding tax is about to arrive, actually assumed that we are going to find it in the Tax Plan. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to ask you to investigate the business case regarding the investigative capacity that has been announced. Mr Nijboer has often drawn attention to this. It was promised to us at the Tax Plan. I'm still assuming it's coming. Is that complicated? I'm sure. But I really think that we can make better money here by using more money and by doing so we can also improve compliance, because it cannot be that, for example, the tax administration still loses an estimated EUR 10 billion of tax revenue every year due to isolated private assets. One more sentence, Mr. Chairman, if I may. I would like to thank my fellow Members and I would like to hear from the Secretary of State about the revision of the ruling practice. Is it really true that it will take place on January 1st? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you. Then Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr. Chairman. When you walk in a maze, such a real one with those hedges, there are always those thin spots in the hedges that you can crawl through. Of course, you're not meant to go through that to achieve your goal. You've got to stay on track. Tax legislation is that maze and the trust sector is working all day to find the thin spots in the hedge, the edges of the law. The parliamentary interrogation on tax constructions has revealed and confirmed that there is no effective self-regulation in the trust sector, that too little effort is made to meet legal requirements and that the trust sector is not prepared to act in accordance with the spirit of the law. Only the letter of the law applies and if you fit through the hole in the hedge you can pass through it, because there is nowhere written that you cannot. The trust sector is an amoral sector. The sector is characterised by moral poverty. As a politician, I have a moral judgment on those kinds of amoral sectors, and that judgment is not mild. Although I do not have the illusion that one day we can close all the holes in the hedge, I do think that as a government we should do everything we can. At the heart of the matter is that citizens and businesses should contribute their fair share to society's collective resources. The Christian Union wants the Netherlands to be an attractive location for companies and headquarters that add work and value to our economy and not to the letterbox sector. I note that this cabinet wants to tackle tax avoidance firmly. I see the broadening of the basis announced in the coalition agreement and the corresponding reduction in corporation tax, the introduction of a withholding tax on interest and royalties, the blacklist for non-cooperative jurisdictions, a more balanced treatment of equity and debt and the stricter regulatory framework and the extensive supervisory tools. Can the Secretary of State indicate exactly when and how these plans will be implemented? We are also pleased that it was agreed in the government agreement following the Panama Papers that the information position and detection capacity of the Tax Administration should be strengthened. A business case is developed for this purpose. Mr Van Weyenberg mentioned it. That was agreed in the coalition agreement. Because if you make smart choices, investing in detection capacity will pay more than it costs. This is already apparent from the answers to my written questions, because with a relatively modest commitment from the Tax Administration, the Panama Papers have already generated more than EUR 6 million in attacks. I therefore expect an ambitious business case from the cabinet. I look forward to receiving it at Prince's Day, as the answers to the questions showed. Can the Secretary of State give us a tip of the veil about what this business case looks like? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the legislation of recent years and months, more needs to be done. For example, what does the Fifth Anti-money laundering Directive mean for the actions and plans of this cabinet? Can the Secretary of State outline the next steps in the fight against tax evasion as concretely as possible, including his time schedule for doing so? And what will the Minister do with opinions 5 to 8 from De Nederlandsche Bank, on page 15 of the committee's report? In his letter, he puts out those points for himself, but I do not think that reaction is sufficient evidence of decisiveness. Finally, Mr President. A maze is only fun if you stay on the paths. Even though you see a hole in the hedge, it is and continues to cheat. People and companies with money will always look for those tax holes. So even better than stopping the holes in the hedge it would be if the tax legislation was not a maze at all. The Christian Union therefore finds many agreements in the coalition agreement to be profitable, but at the same time considers it necessary to take further steps in the long term towards further broadening the tax on profits towards equalising the treatment of equity and debt and towards more minimum rates at EU level. If somewhere the EU could be of more added value, it is here. Mr. Chairman. There's still a lot of work to be done, so I'd like to hear from the rulers in their answers more than intentions. I would like to hear as concretely as possible what steps are going to be taken and when. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you. Then Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr. Chairman. I thank President Henk Nijboer and the members of his committee and the staff for their excellent work. I am proud of a parliament which, despite its political sensitivities, dares to ask difficult questions, increase knowledge and deepen the debate. In some cases, that is something else, I say, without mentioning the d-word! Mr. Chairman. I have complimented this cabinet, and especially the Secretary of State, on the change of course. This is the first cabinet to recognise that tax avoidance is bad for tax morals, bad for the international standing of the Netherlands and bad for the investment climate. We have often discussed and debated the differences of opinion on the measures to be taken, whether it be the fiscal measures or the legal ones. In this debate, I would like to have the ethical and legal discussion. What makes the interviews very clear is that there is a culture in the Netherlands to look for the loopholes of the law to make it possible for companies and wealthy individuals to pay as little tax as possible. This culture has been deeply anchored in our country over the past decades. Now I read in the report that tax advisors themselves ask the government to clarify the spirit of the law. This is, among other things, about the legal doctrine of advocacy, a term that you often see coming back into this debate. Does a construction end up standing in front of a judge? Or in my layman's language, we're going along the edges of the law, but we might just be able to do it. The remarkable thing is that the government uses the same doctrine. Without being able and willing to comment on confidential briefings on concrete cases over the past year, we know that rulings with large companies have been made in this way: is the construction justified? Add to that that people in science, tax advisory offices and trust offices often have double functions, advise companies on tax constructions and then give advice on policies from The Hague and Brussels. Then there's something wrong with culture. The Netherlands has most tax advisors per capita. More than 90% of professors' tax law is linked to an advisory office. Is it a coincidence that there are hardly any professors of tax law interfering in the public debate with the abolition of dividend tax, or do they fear the loss of a few very large customers? We have a cultural problem. Does the cabinet agree with me? I'll make an analogy with the banks and the accountants. These parts of the financial sector, too, are not only regulated more strictly for a number of years, but they are also having a serious internal debate about their own functioning and their role in society. That's a debate on ethics. I have two specific questions for the cabinet about this ethical debate. My first question concerns the role of the government. We know that the Secretary of State is examining the ruling practice. The consultation has now begun. Is he prepared to look at the issue of advocacy together with the Minister for Legal Affairs? The mantra is: we abide by law and regulations. But there is no denying that in recent decades the government has also contributed to a culture of searching for the boundaries of the law. Especially for the government, the bar should be higher than advocacy in court. I would like to receive a response, and I would also like a commitment from the cabinet. The second question concerns the following. Tax advisors do not carry out a protected profession. They also have no legal function, such as accountants or bankers. Still, you could think about that. Shouldn't their social role be to contribute to sound tax morals? And can the government contribute to stimulating that ethical debate within the sector? Perhaps, by analogy with the banks and the accountants, we should consider whether a code of tax advice could play a role in this, and perhaps an oath for tax advisers. I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u15	Thank you. I call Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The parliamentary interrogation committee has shown that a lot of money is flowing through the Netherlands. We already knew that, but we have of course talked further about the role of the different players, namely notaries, trust sector and tax advisor, and how the Tax Administration tries to get behind it when people try to avoid or avoid tax. We've all heard that and made it clear. In doing so, we have shown the Chamber what is wrong in the sector: the law is systematically broken, self-regulation does not work for the trust sector, the regulator has too little capacity, the moral.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... All that matters is money. The main question is not "what do I actually contribute to society?" But "do I get away with it?'. That's what the interviews showed. We have included a whole list of legislation that could be strengthened, both in the supervision and in the Tax Administration. There were also other things that could be improved, such as inspections. We have produced a whole list and the cabinet is going through it step by step. Mr. Chairman. Following this parliamentary question, I would like to put a key question: should you really want such a sector? There are 227 offices in the Netherlands, where people on paper are directors, because they are not in a factory or in an institution of more than 20,000 companies. Its purpose is almost exclusively to avoid tax, not to pay tax or to pay less tax. In addition, there are people who try to abuse the legislation for criminal activities: money laundering, terrorist financing, tax evasion. The committee has found that monitoring is insufficient, that there is no confidence that the sector can handle it at all. We were just talking about ING, which is a large international bank, where money laundering has been made possible on a large scale. The legislation is entrusted to offices of five or ten people, who know exactly what is happening in Curaçao, Bonaire or.I see Mr Paternotte looking at it in Argentina. That is not possible, and that is not credible. Then we are going to tighten up the law a little bit and then we think it is credible. I ask the Cabinet for a fundamental view on why we are actually making this possible. The PvdA has come to that conviction, and I am glad that it lives wider in Parliament, because Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Weyenberg also asked questions in that direction. Should you want that at all, or do you have to get rid of it? Are we really on the right track by tightening trust laws here and there, or are you just talking about trust agencies? If we say: you must have at least €100,000 in sales if you are a director here, that trust factor writes a larger invoice. It makes sure there's a $100,000 turnover and that's all you're enriching it with. But the criminal thing is continuing. That is a fundamental question. A second fundamental question is the gatekeeper function. Can you give the wolves who have to manage the sheep the function and say: yes, we trust you with that. They depend on it, those wolves, the trust sector. They get paid for it. They're paid for by those sheep. They can't be sheep shepherd at the same time, can they? That can't go well, can it? Isn't that basically wrong? The Council of State has noted this before. Can we do that at all? You can see ING can't even do it. Finally, Mr President. I'm running out of time. I was the first chairman of a parliamentary interrogation committee. That was a good thing to do. One of the most beautiful things is that you still work with colleagues from different parties, who do not always have the same starting point, to bring these insights to Parliament, to the Dutch public as a whole. We have done so in fast-track shipping, because after the elections those interviews had to take place quickly. There was also a great collegiality and I think it was also to everyone's satisfaction. I think that's of great value. I would like Parliament to use this instrument, the parliamentary interrogation, which is used throughout the world, more often for shorter or longer interviews and to draw firm conclusions from it. We weren't allowed to draw any conclusions. We've done it with findings. They appear to have emerged in the debate. It would be good to do so more often as a parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u17	We'll tie that in our ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Half a minute, after so much work. I would like to thank my colleagues very much for their cooperation in that committee. It was pretty intense, but we came out okay together. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u19	Heartwarming. Then Mr Mulder of the Party for Freedom. As things stand at present, after the first term of the Chamber, we will continue with the first term of the government. I call Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u20	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a fantastic country with a high tax morale. That tax moral is perhaps the basis of our society. And that morality is not just about the level of taxes, but above all about justice. The parliamentary interrogation committee Fiscal constructions was about laws and taxes, but above all about morality. And what began at the end of the nineteenth century as a legitimate but, above all, logical attempt to prevent double tax payments, is degenerate into an industry for fiscalists and lawyers, with only one goal: to allow companies to pay as little tax as possible. I say deliberately degenerate, because the current situation, in which citizens pay good tax but the elite almost nothing in proportion, is unacceptable. Ordinary citizens don't accept that anymore either. The PVV wants every company to pay just tax, and certainly multinationals. The conclusion of all this is for the PVV: no more shady agreements, no more gifts for the elite, no more friends deals with multinationals and no more uncertainty, especially the latter, about what can or cannot be done and what can or cannot be done. We make the rules here, not Brussels, not the multinationals, but us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u21	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Lodders from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the report of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Fiscal Constructions, or the mini-survey. The reason for this interrogation committee is the Panama Papers, which mainly dealt with tax evasion in relation to private assets. The VVD did not participate in this committee. A conscious choice, not because we don't think the subject is important, but because at the same time with this committee, the Tax Administration itself did an investigation. The fact that the VVD did not participate in this committee does not mean that I do not appreciate this committee, which is obviously directed towards its members and its support for its thorough work. The report therefore provides a number of points of departure for the various debates that we will continue to have on the subject of tax evasion and tax avoidance. The report presents a number of findings. They're recognizable. The good reader will see in the report a large number of similarities between the Committee's findings and the approach to tax evasion and avoidance by this but also by the previous cabinet. The cabinet is firmly committed to an ambitious agenda on this issue. Mr. Chairman. Avoiding tax is illegal and punishable. The VVD believes that this should be tackled as a matter of urgency. We will therefore support all sensible measures that help to tackle these fraudsters. In addition to the criminal evasion of tax, we also know the avoidance of tax. It's often not illegal. You have to ask yourself whether anything should be done, because this could undermine the tax morals of citizens and entrepreneurs. On the other hand, I would not consider every entrepreneur or citizen to be a criminal. The VVD will, of course, be aware of the locational environment in the assessment of the proposals. The VVD stands for a favourable tax location climate. We think it is important for the Netherlands to keep the door open for companies and entrepreneurs, so that they choose the Netherlands as their location. Businesses provide jobs, jobs on which people depend for work and income. If there is tax avoidance, where streamers channel money to a tax haven and do not contribute at all to our economy or to employment, then we must find something about it. At the same time, we must also pay attention to the gems. Take a company that started in a garage box in America and is now active worldwide. We should not destroy a pearl in the shell, but we are tackling those who do not contribute to the economy. In short, I share the committee's concerns that much remains to be done to tackle tax evasion and tax avoidance. Earlier this year, following the letter from the Secretary of State and the very ambitious agenda of the government agreement, we held a debate on tackling tax evasion and avoidance. The VVD looks forward to examining these proposals with great interest. This applies not only to national measures; action is also needed internationally, so that we can and will tackle cross-border tax evasion and tax avoidance. We will always be critical in the assessment of these proposals. Our starting point is that tax fraudsters clearly need to be dealt with. It cannot be the case that companies or individuals deliberately and knowingly evade the tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u23	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u24	The VVD says: you shouldn't want to nip those gems that arise in the United States and then grow into big, innovative companies. But according to the VVD, do they earn by being innovative and successful than the right to pay far less taxes than other companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u25	No, that is certainly not the case. Everyone has to make their contribution. I do not want the regulation to stand in the way of small gems not being able to develop, but that simply goes with the same tax burden, or rather the same tax contribution, which sounds more friendly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u26	Clear. So the VVD would also, in principle, be in favour of tackling these trust offices, which means, among other things, paying very little tax, as D66 and CDA have said? Because they also allow those innovative companies to pay much less tax than, for example, a Dutch SME's.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u27	We agreed in the coalition agreement that we would like to tackle the flow. Measures will therefore be taken to this end. Of course, we would very much like to talk about this now, but I think it would be wise to debate the substance of the measures when they have been presented. But we want to tackle those streamers who do not have real economic activities and who do not create jobs. I think we'll definitely find each other there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u28	Fine. Thank you. So much for the first term of office. The Secretary of State has requested a ten-minute reflection period. So I'm gonna suspend for ten minutes, and then we're gonna listen to the cabinet's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u29	We are going to resume and the Minister for Finance has the floor. If Mr Omtzigt might want to sit down...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u30	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank your Chamber for inviting us to discuss the findings of the Parliamentary Committee on Tax Constructions. I am, of course, doing so on behalf of the Secretary of State for Finance and the Minister for Legal Protection. We will also answer the questions on the basis of our responsibilities. I shall begin by saying something about the instrument of parliamentary interrogation and about the findings. After that, I will deal with the questions relating to the integrity of the financial markets. The Secretary of State will then comment on his policy to tackle tax avoidance and tax evasion. Finally, the Minister for Legal Protection will answer the questions put to him, or perhaps even one question. Mr. Chairman. Before I dive into the content, it might be good to highlight that the means of parliamentary questioning is a new instrument, with which the Chamber will also gain experience in the coming years. The Chamber has opted directly for a large and important theme, namely tax constructions. Especially after the Panama Papers, this issue can also count on great social interest and indignation. I very much appreciate the report and also the work done by the committee in a very short time, which has been mentioned several times. Before the summer, in the debate on the trust offices, I have already talked about 'the Nijboer electoral corps'. That wasn't irony, because I really think what's lying there is very good and is helping us to move forward as a cabinet. I have already referred to the Panama Papers and the fuss and indignation about this in the Netherlands, but it was certainly also worldwide, precisely because of the tax morality and the great importance that we all attach to it. Another important reason for this outrage was in our view that the constructions we have found in the Panama Papers would not have been possible without the active involvement of lawyers, advisers, notaries and trust offices. That is also the picture that emerges from the committee's report. This also creates a paper reality, in which no one takes responsibility for the negative effects of the overall construction; it has been recalled for a while. I think that the committee has also really contributed to the realization that we no longer want to do so with each other, that we want to do so differently. Let me make the bridge to the first question. I was already talking about the debate of, I believe, at the beginning of July, in which I was asked to talk to De Nederlandsche Bank about the necessary capacity. I put that question to the President the following day in my regular consultation with De Nederlandsche Bank. I have also discussed the sector with him on a broader basis. I'll say something about that in a minute. At that time he asked me to have the opportunity to turn that question off internally, but the answer is not yet there. I believe that the Chamber has also received a brief postponement. So I discussed the question orally and the question was put to DNB, and I will come back to that with the help of DNB. I am also saying this in the direction of Mr Van Weyenberg, who is now asking for it in particular, but it was a broader remark. I think it was also a remark made by Mrs Leijten, among others, in the debate on trust offices. I expect to be able to return to that at the end of September. Mr. Chairman. I have a few other comments on the subject of trust offices and capacity. Mr Bruins asked about the implementation of the opinions. I do not see Mr Bruins in the Chamber right now. Then we are actually back to the list and to the debate we had then. We have exchanged views about the fact that a large number of these elements have been taken over and some of them have not been taken over. I do not think I should repeat this entirely, but I must point out that recommendation No 8 is in the area of the Minister for Legal Protection. So maybe he'll say something about that. Mr. Chairman. I told you, I talked to the President of De Nederlandsche Bank more widely about the trust offices. I think we all have a strengthened understanding of what is happening in the sector, let me put it this way, partly because of what the committee has done. The President and I have once again exchanged the view that the trust sector is in many ways just a child of concern. Now some, especially those with children, could say that all children are children of concern. I fear that this comparison will come to an end if you look at the financial sector, but it is fair to say that the trust offices deserve our particular attention. In particular, in the direction of Mr Nijboer, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Weyenberg, I say that my proposal is to ask DNB to come forward with a report on the state of play at least once a year in addition to the evaluation of the law. That's what I exchanged with the president. What do we find? That needs to be changed with the Chamber. I want to talk to the Chamber about this, because I think we all have concerns about what we find there. I am convinced that the legislation we discussed before the recess will help. But like the Chamber, I'm not comfortable with that. That is why I thought it wise to have at least once a year a report on the various elements that came along. Then I'm gonna have to ask you a couple of other questions. Mr Van Weyenberg asked about the possibility of monitoring the shadow trust sector. This brings us partly back to the July debate. Advice and organisation of tax constructions are governed by the Supervisory Trust Offices Act 2018 or by the Anti-money laundering and terrorist financing Act. So all these service providers are supervised. With the Supervisory Trust Offices Act 2018, we bring parties who deliberately circumvent the law by cutting up trust services, within the scope of the law. That is exactly what I wanted to intervene on just before the debate. I said at that time I repeat that DNB has a particular focus on the illegal trust offices. DNB also has a hotline for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u31	Thank you for that answer. I asked this question very specifically because you see the number of trust offices falling sharply. Does the regulator and the minister have the idea that this goes hand in hand with the growth of that shadow trust sector? Perhaps the Minister could say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u32	I do not have any numbers for that particular link that was also mentioned in that debate. We did, however, exchange what we know about the size of offices. During the debate, I had that looked up. We had an insight into the number of one-man cases, but not the number of two-man cases, for example. I believe that Mr Nijboer or anyone else asked for that in the debate. What we see and what was an important element in the discussion is that larger, more professional trust offices are less likely to get into trouble. Maybe you should say they're less tempted. At the heart of a part of the debate we had then was whether you should want to enter it as a legislator yourself, because that is what we are doing with the law, or whether you should ban the smaller offices as such. Some of them in the room were for the last time. The cabinet has clearly chosen the first route. By setting quality standards you force the sector to professionalize. This probably makes it very difficult for relatively small parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u33	Thank you. The Minister just made two promises that I thought were very good. The Netherlands Bank is still looking at capacity and annual reporting. Could I ask you to look specifically at the first report to see if anything can be said about the decrease? How can it be explained? What happens to those customers? Is that just less work? We don't think that's any bad news, I guess. Or is it going to the shadow side anyway? Could such an analysis get a place in that report?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u34	Let me agree with Mr Van Weyenberg that I will put that question to DNB. I'm not sure how complicated it is for DNB to map that shadow side in particular. I'll let the Chamber know about that. But of course I can answer the question anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u35	I come back to the trust sector, which the Minister quite rightly says is a genuine child of concern and that much remains to be done. I welcome the fact that he wants to report to the Chamber on this every year. I would like to ask the Minister for a fundamental rethink of what is actually the added value of such a trust sector and the various functions that such a sector performs. Is the Minister prepared to do so? It could just be Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Weyenberg talked about there that decent parts of that sector really only serve as a letterbox company, without added value. And we should just get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mr Nijboer raises a much more fundamental point. My observation is that many of Mr Nijboer's party in recent years have also become increasingly keen to see what is happening in this sector and what has changed the number of questions and the urgency of these questions. We now have a different debate on this subject than we would have had five or ten years ago. So I understand that question. Moreover, I think it is important to ask why this sector exists. In itself, everyone is free to offer services. We all know the origins of the war just before the Second World War, when Dutch companies started to insure themselves against the risk of war. There is a need for a service in the market. Then we, as politicians, say that we are going to step up dramatically the conditions under which this service operates. Then we have to ask ourselves whether this tightening-up will enable us to ensure that there is a sector that can function in a way that we consider acceptable or not. In my view, you only come to that "or not" with the question of being put by Mr Nijboer in his own right. It is a somewhat longer answer, Mr President, but it is also a very fundamental question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u37	My request is that this question be taken into account when reporting. If the Minister says that it has a function, that it needs tightening up, that we need to look at what does work and that we can be tightened up, but that we want to regulate it this way, he should also ask the question whether there might be parts that we just really need to get rid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u38	I'm willing to do that, but I'd like to make a cut. I say this to Mr Nijboer and to Mr Omtzigt. The request I made to DNB, which DNB said they can agree to, and that they also think it wise because it keeps pressure on them, is a report request that I want to share with the Chamber in its entirety. I understand that the question put by Mr Nijboer is a question for me. So I'll take that to the Chamber together, but it comes from two different counters. Mr. Chairman. In reply to one of Mr Omtzigt's questions, I addressed Mr Nijboer's concerns and questions about the gatekeeper function. Mr Omtzig asked what function the place of residence is. Mr Van Weyenberg joined. Each legal person in the Netherlands must have a postal address. That could be a property of the legal person itself. It can also be a property that is rented. If a legal person does not need its own property, the use of another address may then be the solution. The fact that business residence is subject to authorisation means that there is an insight into this and that strict requirements also apply. Now, if you were to lift that, would you also lift some of the problem? That's how I understood the question. We were not immediately convinced of this in the discussions, because it is then what you could do next. That is why it is a more fundamental discussion. Because as a malicious institution, you could stop using that mailbox and then open an office. Then you're no longer dependent on a trust service provider. You open an office, of course, at a slightly higher cost, but they don't outweigh what's to be earned. That could be attractive. And then you sort of move on on the same foot. So the added value is, in our view, precisely in the things the Secretary of State intends to do to complicate these kinds of constructions. He's gonna say something about that in a minute. Then I have had Mr Bruins' points and the question of whether the sector is desirable. I think I'm through, Mr. Chairman. If it's all right with you, I'll hand the stick over to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u39	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u40	Mr. Chairman. I feel like a little boy standing behind this high chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u41	We do that on purpose, just to clarify the proportions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u42	I understand that very well, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u43	But we're in a good mood.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u44	Can you just take it down a little bit more? It's pretty close. Maybe I don't even need my reading glasses anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u45	That says something about your age.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Given the number of questions asked, I think I need a little more time. Actually, my proposal is to cut it up into two cubes. In the first place, in general, I say something about tax avoidance and tax evasion. Next, I would like to comment on a few concrete measures that I am proposing, including a timetable and so on. So I'm just saying to the MPs that I want to cut it in half a bit, so they don't think: is my question still coming? Yeah, but probably in the second block. Before I go into any kind of trouble, I must, of course, start, like the Minister, by expressing my appreciation for the parliamentary interrogation committee. It has been recalled before today: I really think that we all endorse not only many of the conclusions and findings of the committee, but also that we should not underestimate the fact that it has been really important in setting the policy agenda, including for me and for this cabinet. So I think we should say again today that we owe money to this committee. I would therefore like to thank Mr Nijboer as chairman of this committee and his committee members for their valuable work. Having said that, I know that today we can talk for quite a long and very pleasant hour or two about the policy commitment that I have in any case and which the Cabinet has in relation to tax avoidance and evasion, but on 29 March last we have already exchanged a number of hours. I can therefore imagine that the Chamber agrees with me that I am not going to do that again in this debate, but that I will confine myself to the core of a number of policy proposals. If it isn't, I'd like to hear it. Then we'll talk about it for a long time. It is clear that this cabinet considers tax avoidance and tax evasion to be very serious problems and that we are just going to tackle them. That is also clear in my policy agenda. So I'm not going through all the measures. I shall speak to Mr Bruins in a moment about the timing of this. Actually, you could say it's roughly about two main categories. First of all, it is a question of basic protection. We no longer want companies with all kinds of cleverness and tricks to look up the boundaries of our law in order to allow base erosion to take place and, rightly said, to do something with the tax morals of all those people who pay their taxes properly. I don't just want to do that domestic. I also want to ensure that companies operating internationally are no longer able to actively use the difference in tax base between the countries and look for gaps in the hedge, or other fine examples and comparisons that are to be made, with the sole aim of avoiding tax where they should actually pay. I think this is one clear main category. The second is a discussion we are having today on the trust sector. We want to take measures to address the transparency and integrity of this whole 'industry', as has been mentioned in the parliamentary interrogation committee. For his part, the Minister has just mentioned a number of measures. But we will also do our best to further promote integrity and transparency in fiscal and financial matters. I will deal with a few measures. Moreover, many of these measures stem from international agreements and directives. The most important thing to mention here is that, for many years, the OECD has struck a significant blow around the BEPS project, the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project, and has received many countries behind a sort of minimum line of what we do not consider acceptable internationally. That's very important. Further on in Europe we have two important directives: ATAD 1 and 2. That's a bit technical, but that's how we really took steps that weren't thought possible until a few years ago. I also think it is good to point out that the Netherlands has always participated, also under previous cabinets. In recent years, you can see that we want to play a more pioneering role in this whole discussion. A number of considerations have just been given by the Chamber as to why it is important and why it can ultimately help us as a country for a good locational climate to keep our feet and back straight on a number of points. Sometimes there are European minimums in directives. You could do exactly that, but if we all think that we can go further on a number of points, and we find that, we are willing to sometimes do a little more than the absolute minimum. With this we want to make it clear that we really want to put an end to Holland's transit country. Not only do we sometimes want to do something more than the minimum, but we also want to take unilateral measures. One of the most important measures is the introduction of conditional withholding tax on interest, royalty and dividend flows. This is an important part of the legislative programme for the coming years. We actually want to try to tackle all this kind of flow to low tax jurisdiction, like tax havens. We want to deal with these abuse situations. The coalition agreement said that we would do so by 2023, but we have now decided to accelerate that measure to the introduction year 2021. This as a general agenda we have in front of us. There have been a number of specific questions that I would like to answer, starting with a number of questions from Mr Alkaya. He's actually saying, is it fair, all that inflow and outflow? Is it at the expense of the basis of countries and, if so, what countries are they? Does the cabinet think that's fair? Through all the measures I have just described to tackle tax avoidance and evasion, we indicate that we do not like it. We really want to do our best to put an end to that. The amounts called Oxfam are very large. I do not know whether I want to endorse these amounts, but at least the Netherlands is not a tax haven. I do not think so, the Chamber does not think so, and neither does the European Commission. It just isn't. What we do have is an issue with the flow. And we want to do something about that. Mr Alkaya asked the interesting question whether in certain cases you could not reverse the burden of proof. It is often quite difficult to prove that something is evasion or evasion. It is good in itself to realise that, if it is established that a declaration has not been made correctly or in full, the burden of proof will be reversed at that time. It already is. Mr Alkaya then says: okay, but could we not go a step further? Can we not reverse the burden of proof if there is a suspicion of tax evasion? I don't think that's a proper, appropriate solution. The reversal of the burden of proof is not easy. You only have to do that when there's really something. If there's just a hunch, how deep is that suspicion and what does it mean? To be honest, it seems to me extremely difficult for the service to really do that. Although I understand the idea well, I do not think this is a workable solution for the service. That's why I wouldn't recommend him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u47	Look, I understand the first reaction that this might be a disproportionate measure, but I ask the Secretary of State to examine whether an increase in the burden of proof and, in the extreme, if there is a suspicion, a reversal of the burden of proof is possible. A hunch can be strong. There are countries which in themselves do not have a very large market, but which are popular with a lot of companies to do business with, precisely for tax reasons. These are countries which are not very attractive in terms of the market for marketing, nor are they very attractive in terms of production. Then there may be a strong suspicion that there is a tax structure used for tax avoidance or evasion. In these cases, it should be examined whether the burden of proof for taxable persons could become heavier. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u48	I think that's a little bit the same for that. As long as you stay in the frame that there is a suspicion, strong or not strong, you still have no clue and no evidence. If you think there's a suspicion and you can make it happen because it's misfilled or incomplete, then it's all about it. I add that I'm not a lawyer, but I think that's exactly when you can really say: now that it's established that it's true, we're really gonna turn around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u49	You can just find a whole bunch of cases where that suspicion is very strong. The cabinet is very strict when there is a suspicion of benefit fraud, for example, because people are being spied on and watched until it has been proven that there is benefit fraud. We are talking about much larger amounts here, and I am not asking for anything unreasonable. I ask for an investigation to see if the burden of proof for such a company could be increased. We are talking about very high amounts of money, and then a suspicion is not enough. I am not asking for a very weak suspicion, because I am thinking, for example, of a country that is on an international blacklist or using a trust office. These are such strong suspicions that the Tax Administration should be able to get a little more powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u50	Here too, my answer is twofold. The first part is the suspicion. If an inspector suspects something isn't right, he's just gonna have to live up to it. The moment it does, the burden of proof turns around. I don't think that's any different than in a lot of other lawsuits. There's a suspicion, and if that's done, the burden of proof turns around. Something else is the second part. You say that sometimes there are also flows that go to a tax haven or a country where there is no tax at all and where there is no market. That's so weird and isn't that something you can intervene on? In essence, that is exactly what we are going to do with this new tax, that withholding tax. We are going to find out which countries are on the blacklist. That is a technical story, but you can test on a number of things, for example that there is no serious tax burden, they do not cooperate or they do not meet the transparency requirements. We have a series of measures. If you don't comply or you refuse to comply with it, you'll just be blacklisted and a withholding tax will automatically apply. Then you are almost certainly not in the discussion about whether or not, because that withholding tax will simply apply. You're gonna pay for it, and I think that's exactly what you can do. This blacklist is established on the basis of principles: if you do not comply with it by 1 January next, you will be blacklisted. Then you have something that you can also base legislation on. So I think part of this story is true, but in the first part I see a little less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u51	Why only withholding tax on blacklisted countries? Why not in all cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u52	If the Netherlands wants to continue to take itself seriously as a country where it is attractive to settle, you should not apply a withholding tax to all countries. I do not think that is what we are going for, because this often leads to double taxation and tax treaties. It is precisely because of the lack of a withholding tax that we want to prevent money from getting untaxed anywhere near a tax haven. I think that's what we're trying to prevent. If it goes to a country where there is a tax, for example Germany where they pay 22%, why do we have to introduce a withholding tax? I think there are few headquarters or branches left that say: then we will do a branch in the Netherlands because then we will pay twice. I don't think that would be the answer. Mr Bruins asked me whether we could outline as concretely as possible all the concrete steps we are going to take in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance. To describe measures as concretely as possible is actually a kind of legislative proposal, because then I will really be very specific in what we are doing. Mr President, I will not do that with your approval, but I would like to make a commitment about it. We have, of course, announced a number of measures earlier. Some measures have already been taken, for example in legislation such as the multilateral treaty. You can also read a large number of measures in this Tax Plan. ATAD 1 is included, but it also contains a number of own measures. We will also have measures next year. For example, we are now working hard on the implementation of ATAD 2. The other files remain one or two points. We are not going to introduce these points until later and we are also going to deal with them. In short, I think that the bulk, roughly speaking, is laid down in legislation and regulation by the end of 2019, even if they do not enter into it until 2021. However, in the direction of Mr Bruins, I would like to say that I might also be able to provide a more precise legislative calendar when dealing with the Tax Plan, in which we say: this is how we are going to plan it. That's what I'm happy to say. That can also be helpful for your own planning. Then I have some questions here. The first is Mr Omtzigt's. If I understand correctly, he says: okay, we have a number of measures here, which we are going to talk about, but can you also come up with additional measures to address this problem? I think we can think about that. I also do not believe that everything has been done after our policy package and that the world is ready and ready. Complementary legislation will be required. At the same time, I think it's okay to look first; we're gonna do this, we're gonna monitor it. We also indicated in the First Chamber that we want to see if it works what we do. This was also the subject of another question from Mr Omtzigt, on which I shall return in a moment. We have all kinds of ambitious plans, which will not have been realised in effect from today to tomorrow, but in the end we want to see: will it help? The programme we have now is ambitious. We should never say: that was then for the next so many years. We must continue to monitor and see whether what we are doing now, these years, has had any effect. In this context, Mr Omtzigt also asked about zero measurement. We have had this discussion before, and I understand it very well. You have to start somewhere, and how do you know you were effective? In the First Chamber, I made a commitment to see if I can clarify the impact assessments. Mr Omtzigt says: do so, for example, around a zero measurement with the inflow and outflow data we have, the flow rates. Actually, I think this is very well in line with the commitment I made in the First Chamber. I'd like to do that here, too. It seems to me to be a good idea, I say, to have something of a zero measurement for that purpose, which you need to know if you are effective and to be able to talk to the Chamber on an annual basis through a report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u53	In response to this, I would like to say the following. I know you can't associate everything with each other, but the bottom line is that we're only imposing a withholding tax on those companies, that money flowing, that go to countries on the blacklist. The conclusion is the same: they leave the Netherlands. That is also true of your own statement that it is budgetaryly neutral; it does not yield anything. Other companies remain, but they do not have to pay withholding tax. On the other hand, however, you will come forward with proposals to give a total of 4 billion: corporation tax and dividend tax. Eventually, the total industry doesn't pay anything, because the people who would have to pay go away. And they'll get a $4 billion present. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u54	No, that's not right. I can't imagine spending a $4 billion present on that. By the way, it is also good for Mr Mulder to realise that this blacklist is not just something of the Netherlands. The idea is that you use that blacklist all the same. A company that wants to do business with such a tax haven does not say: I will go to Belgium or Luxembourg or to another country. If it is right, these countries will have exactly the same list. Is it therefore impossible for such companies, if they really do not want to pay taxes knowingly, to come up with something, or to go to another jurisdiction where they do not pay taxes? The answer remains, I think: unfortunately not. But to those companies we say a little: good riddance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u55	One more time, Mr. Chairman. The answer was actually: no, I don't think so. But under the line, the proposal, the policy, now that the people who are going to pay are not going to do so, because they are going to go away. The other companies don't have to pay. But the total sector gets 4 billion. So how come my reasoning isn't right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u56	Again, I don't think we're giving a four billion-dollar gift. I'm gonna have to think about exactly how you added up that $4 billion, but I'm gonna be happy to hear that later. It is true that so far we have included in the estimates a zero for the introduction of these withholding taxes. This is because there is still a possibility of companies moving their premises. That's right. We don't like that, and in a way you can say: it's too bad they were here and they won't be here anymore. But to those companies we really say: if you're not willing to pay for the way we regulate that and keep letting your money flow away into a very low-tax country, then we don't need you here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u57	No, I understand. But the explanation is as follows: dividend tax 2 billion and the Vpb for multinationals is around 2.2 billion if you collect the first rate for SMEs, just as easily calculated. But a total of 4 billion. And that's a gift, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u58	This calculation becomes somewhat creative, I think, because of course the Vpb is independent of this. You can't add it to that anyway. I'm sure we'll be able to discuss this other discussion, the amount you mention and the present, in the course of the legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u59	Mr. Omtzigt. Well, briefly, then, Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u60	Well, it's a gift, at least: the industry doesn't go backwards and gets it. On the other hand, you don't hold back. Again, you can say it's creative, but under the line it's four billion plus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u61	My maths look different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u62	Thanks to the Secretary of State for the commitment of a zero measurement on the flow and an annual update on the size of that flow. As I said, I do not expect that from one year to the next to be resolved, the problem is too difficult for that. When can we expect this zero measurement? Does the annual report therefore start from that point on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u63	I don't have a date in my head yet, but I think it's the best thing to find, say and indicate something about it before dealing with the tax plans. The search is of course what indicators you need to see if you are successful. That was quite complicated, because measuring the flow alone is not enough. Measuring the number of trust offices alone is also insufficient. The number of companies coming to the Netherlands or leaving the Netherlands alone is not enough either. So we're really looking at how we could measure it. Passage is part of that. We do this together with SEO, an internationally renowned Dutch research agency that has experience with this. I do not now have one-two-three answers to your question, but it seems logical to me to send it to your Chamber for the treatment of the Tax Plan. Then I have a question from Mr Van Weyenberg and also from Mr Snels. If I may sum it up a little too roughly, it was culture. Is there a cultural problem? Do we? Is that what's going on? How's that going, anyway? Isn't it weird that all these people are involved in all kinds of things? I think that's a difficult question. On the one hand, we also have examples that we think are: so, that goes quite far. On the other hand, it must also be said that if you are too firm in saying that this is a cultural problem, you must realise that every taxpayer in the Netherlands is free to pay as little tax as possible. That's how we legally arranged it. So he can also try to minimize his tax within the rules of the law. He may also seek advice within the rules of the law. Because, as in any case for me, and I am sure all of you, it is sometimes difficult to fully understand all the tax rules. So it's obvious that there are a lot of rights there for those people to do that. You cannot speak of a cultural problem when people try within their rights what is allowed to them. But, of course, it's a gray area. It's a discussion we often have. For example, we also have the discussion about border exploration. Are there structures that we say: well, if you are allowed to do so literally within the legal and regulatory framework, then we do not see a ban right away, but we do see the sum total? For example, there can be a situation that can clearly only be meant to avoid tax somewhere. Then the question may be whether as a government you want to give security in advance. This is typically a question that we have also raised in the internet consultation that we started around the ruling practice. That's just the question. You can talk about it. It's got pluses and minuses on it. There's a right to just get good advice. There is a right to act within the law. But at the moment when there really is a border exploration, you can decide: that is allowed and at the end of the journey we will determine whether or not that is allowed, but at least we are not going to give any security in advance. That's the question I'm asking. We have not yet reached a conclusion, but we await the internet consultation. But I believe that it is a good and fair question that we must deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u64	Thank you very much for that answer. I think there has been a cultural problem, at least in recent decades. Not only the government, but also the whole sector has contributed to the search for the boundaries of the law. That was, you could say, aggressive text planning. You have different concepts. The Secretary of State himself begins with the concept of "the rules of the law": you may abide by the rules of the law and no more than that. Then you have aggressive text planning: we are going to act against that. In between there is advocacy: it may be, but it is not really the intention. And then there's the term "the spirit of the law." The tax advisors themselves ask the government to clarify this. There are already four different concepts, from "we adhere to the law" to "aggressive text planning." My question has to do with a cultural problem, not only in the sector, but as I pointed out with the ruling teams. Can there not be a number of lawyers together, write a nice piece about it and think about how we deal with these concepts and thereby create a kind of expectation of how we feel about dealing with legislation and regulations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u65	I come to the precise question put by Mr Snels. Indeed, he already asked if I was prepared to consider the pedigree when reviewing the ruling practice. I have the following answer to that. First of all, it is good to realise that the advocacy of a request for preliminary consultation for an inspector is an important consideration whether or not to give advance assurance, so that is already the case. Therefore, if an opinion is not advocacy, the inspector will not give any advance assurance. An application for preliminary consultation does not have to be considered under the Tax Administrative Law Decision if there is a conflict with the purpose or scope of the law. That is already quite broad, because that is not only the letter, but purpose and purpose of the law. This is also the case at the moment. That doesn't change the fact that you could always have discussions about that, and I understand that. As part of the whole review of the ruling practice and all that goes with it, this has been a concrete question from us in the internet consultation to get their opinion from the sector and from the people you are now referring to. That's important. But it's not like a law book is literally being calculated: I can't see what's stopping it, we're already doing it. That's not how it works. That's why I wanted to say this in advance. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say the following. Earlier in the debate, I think Mr Snels said that you would sit down with your ruling inspector and then set up a structure. That's not how it works. There's an advisor, someone who can do something. He could come to an inspector sometime. The inspector says yes or no, but he's not gonna negotiate or deal until they come out somewhere in the middle. That really is a misconception that often prevails. I'd like to straighten that out anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u66	I'm trying to be precise, too. Besides the spirit of the law, you also have the meaning of the law. My gut tells me there's a difference in nuance. For example, we have seen in the ruling team that advocacy does play a role. In the case of advocacy, there is also a counter-argument, because not everything comes before the courts and will take place in the courtroom. This immediately raises the question that advocacy ultimately means: no, it was not according to law and regulation. That is, of course, exactly the point that was a bit in the culture, not just in the Tax Administration, but in the whole sector at all. When searching for the boundaries of the law, you sometimes shoot over it without being in court. In fact, I think that this debate should be held. This applies not only to the ruling team and to the review of the ruling practice, but also to the sector itself. I don't think we're going to get there alone with laws and regulations. Then we continue to play the game of tightening up regulation and continue to look for the loopholes of the law and we keep losing that. It also has something to do with the interaction between legislation and regulation and culture in the Tax Administration and in the sector itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u67	Mr President, once again, I think that Mr Snels' question is right on this point, because this is exactly the kind of discussion that we have. I said we'd take this with us in the Internet consultation. I promised to come to your Chamber in November with further details of the proposals. This will, of course, then be a subject that will come back. Then the last thing at this point, after which I would like to move on to the next block, and that is the issue of culture. I said just now that we need to be careful to put that down too sharply as: any advice to pay less tax is wrong. At the same time, we have also recognised that some things have happened in recent years that we were not very happy with. It is precisely for this reason that I am trying to give this discussion a kind of boost. I will mention a number of measures that we are now preparing and implementing, such as those relating to the offence fines and the mandatory disclosure, in which we are really trying to push that culture a little bit in the right direction. At the moment there is a real debate going on, also through our policy, on fiscal ethics which will be of all times, and I hope that, once again, at least the impetus that we are now making will push that discussion in the right direction. Mr President, I will move on quickly, because I promised to be brief. The block that deals with promoting integrity, transparency and detection. I must briefly mention a few measures, because we have not dealt with them so precisely before. I was asked for it, too. It is actually all the measures we have to keep the tax moral in the Netherlands up to date. First of all, let me mention the measures affecting tax intermediaries. Your research, I say in the direction of Mr Nijboer and his team, has paid great attention to this. These were actually the people we wanted to know a lot about. We will make them more transparent about their tax advice. This is what we are doing, for example, on the basis of the European Directive on Mandatory Disclosure, which clearly states that tax intermediaries must report cross-border and potentially aggressive tax structures to the Tax Administration. That's really new and that's something. We have come up with a kind of handle when it is and it is quite fast. If I'm thinking of something as a tax advisor and it's coming up, I'm obliged to report it to the Tax Office. This directive has been adopted and we are in the process of transposing it into legislation. In addition to tax constructions, the practice of course also shows that tax intermediaries can be involved in violating tax laws. In view of the importance of transparency and openness and in order to prevent tax offences from being committed more frequently, we are looking to see whether it is possible to make public the irrevocably fixed fines imposed on tax advisers, for example. It will then make clear which advisers, if they are irrevocably established, have been fined for crossing the border. That is really important for transparency. Another important measure is the right to change taxes. At the moment, by handing over a certain file to your attorney, the IRS can no longer access that data. The Netherlands is quite unique. We do not and will not comply with international standards in this area, nor with those of the OECD. We're in the middle of setting this up. I will skip a few minor measures just for the sake of convenience. What is important, I think, is the recovery measures. There appear to be a lot of constructions, separate from the attack and separate from the avoidance, where the collection becomes very complicated. Actually, this is pretty simple to explain. I'd like money from you, but you live across the border. I'll have to announce it. As soon as I announce it, your identity will explode and I won't be able to get my story anywhere. There are really arrangements to do that. There are also possibilities to shorten that whole prior process. We are working hard to do something with that too. Mr. Chairman. Then let's talk briefly about the secluded private assets. A question has also been asked about this. We have been working very hard to tackle black savers and others and have achieved a decent return on this. With this we really go on, also project-wise. In any event, this was established until 2021. Then the last thing, the business case. They asked me what's going on with that. We have talked about this a number of times. I have also expressed my concern in your Chamber that it is sometimes difficult to make a one-on-one connection between what we are doing as an extra effort by the Tax Administration and how much we are collecting. Suppose I have new and better data analysts. By definition, does that mean I'm picking up more? That's tricky. At the same time, we hope so. But I have always wanted to point out that as a business case it may not even be that easy to prove that it works and that we want it anyway. So, as I have already said, I come to the Tax Plan with measures that will continue to do so. We don't call that a "businesscase" anymore, but "intensifying approach disguised ability"; if you say it three times then you always make a pronunciation error, I found out. That's important. It is really intended to get a better grip, in particular on the income from, for example, criminal activities that are put away and kept hidden. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the last few small questions at this point. Let's see. There was a question from Mr Omtzigt about an update.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u68	Let's do Mr Bruins' question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u69	Thank you, Mr President. It's a good thing that information about intensification is coming up. Is there any reason why we shouldn't call it "businesscase" anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u70	I myself find this to be the case, but perhaps it is not the word 'businesscase' for collecting taxpayers' money that is really the right thing to do. That suggests a little bit that it's about where the money might get the most, is the easiest to get or with the least number of manpower. I do not think that is the way we want to tax it. I would very much like to collect tax from those people because of the tax morale, because I think they should pay a fair share and because I don't want them to get away with constructions. So my personal preference was not to call it "businesscase" all the time, because with that, I think, you actually get the wrong frame of the way you collect taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u71	I can understand that. Under a business case, I understand that we will at least look at what intensification is taking place, what additional costs are being incurred in human resources, and that we will also assess possible returns or what are the most promising places to use these intensifications and how they will be done, what new techniques will then be used. Is that the type of content I can expect from the document that is being sent to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u72	Sure, because that's what it's all about, of course. It would be my dearest wish that from now on we do not occasionally make business cases, but that we set up a tax administration that has this as a permanent case: just collecting the tax money. Sometimes you have to do that because you know that somewhere is a problem that you need extra capacity for. I think that's where the idea of a business case came from, but I finally think that this is what we need to do structurally and not that we have a business case once because some money has been released. We just have to keep doing that. Mr. Chairman. I had a few more questions. Mr. Omtzigt asked for an update on the exchange of information on rulings. I did indeed send a letter in February in which I wrote about it until 31 January 2017. At that time there were only, I found myself, received 61 requests in which another tax authority asked for an underlying ruling. Moreover, we continue to do so, even though there is not always a lot of questioning. We think it's important what we do. As I also indicated in the letter of 18 February, in six months' report, the first of 2019, we will put the 2018 figures next to it, so we can see how it stands. Mr Omtzig also asked whether the Commission had requested further information on rulings in the past year. In fact, we do receive regular requests not only from other countries, but also from the Commission, in many areas, including in the field of taxation, that the information exchanged between the Netherlands and the Commission is confidential and is therefore not made public. Also, if the Commission has a presumption of State aid, it may initiate a formal investigation. In that formal investigation, the procedure shall be public. So at that point, it can come out in the open and be shared with your Chamber. Then Mr Van Weyenberg asked what is really going on with the ruling practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u73	Mr Omtzig is going to be here a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u74	We have all received information in the past if other information was requested from Brussels. Should I conclude from this that in the last few months, information has been requested over the past year, but no investigation has started? Can we not, therefore, somehow be updated on what kind of information has been requested from the European Commission about the rulings issued?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u75	Once again, I cannot say anything about the communication between us and the Commission. That's just a standing appointment. But if you haven't seen anything out in the open, you can conclude that no formal investigation procedure has been initiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u76	Can the government shed a light on what questions have been raised by the European Commission and whether they still have an impact on the ruling policy in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u77	That's a question about being a little pregnant. If I scam a tip of the veil here, I'll tell the story. I really cannot say anything about what is happening between us and the Commission in the asking atmosphere, at least not in public. As soon as a formal objection procedure is opened somewhere or a formal procedure comes from the Commission, it will be made public immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u78	If the Commission writes a letter, will the documents fall under the WOB?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u79	I don't know. We have very good lawyers who know exactly that. I can't answer that here. If we have to have an answer to that, I can ask in a moment if anyone knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u80	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u81	I suspect not, quite frankly, because it is a piece of the Commission and not ours. But if it's different from what I'm saying right now, I'll let you know as soon as I can. Mr Van Weyenberg asked about the review of the ruling practice. We know the tests. We've seen the Internet consultation. Fortunately, we get a lot of reactions to that. We need to take the input with us. Is it true that the new ruling practice is in place on 1 January? I don't think that's the case. I do think that the aim is and will continue to be to shape the new arrangement of the ruling practice from 1 January 2019. You're gonna have to do something for that. It could be that we're centering more. All those things we're asking out right now, we're gonna convert. As of January 1st, we will start shaping the new practice. Is that the end of the new design? I don't think I'm gonna make it. Then there is Mr Snels' question on the question of advocacy. I think we'd talked about that for a while. On Mr Bruins' question as to whether or not tax revenues were related to intensification, I think I have already said something. It's not one-on-one. On balance, in the end of course it is, but it is very difficult to attribute each piece of FTE or data analysis to a particular purpose. That's really hard, but I think we just had a good discussion about this. Then I think, Mr President, unless someone looks at me now that I have missed something, that I have answered Members' questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u82	Very good. Then we are going to listen to the Minister for Legal Protection, who, as we all know, can be very concise. He's gonna prove that again tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u83	Sure, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna do my best. For the sake of short, I agree with the appreciation of my colleagues for the work of the interrogation committee and the report that is the basis of this debate. In my view, it is a useful addition to the regular instruments of technical briefings and the heavier instruments available to you, such as parliamentary research and the survey. I also note that my two colleagues in the Finance Committee have discussed trust offices and tax avoidance and evasion with you on a number of occasions. Justice comes around the corner when it comes to two elements. The first is the criminal investigation and prosecution of fraud and money laundering, one of the priorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office's functional office, with special attention being paid where such offences are facilitated. That's what we've been able to see for the past week. I think we will soon be discussing the ING case in detail. The second element is company law and the supervision of legal persons. Mr Omtzigt asked a specific question about this, namely whether I would like to examine whether there is any possibility of obliging foundations to deposit the annual accounts. He himself mentioned the anbi's, for which that obligation exists. Moreover, this obligation is broader, since foundations operating a company with a turnover greater than 6 million are also obliged to deposit their annual accounts on the basis of the Civil Code. Think, for example, of large social institutions. I think I can meet Mr Omtzigt for a long time. I sent a letter to the Chamber in March on a very different subject, namely the transparency of money flows following the debate we had on unwanted foreign financing. In order to make this kind of money flow transparent, we are now breeding on a bill that includes more insight into foundations' annual accounts. I suspect it should be possible to consult such a bill later this autumn. Mr President, that was it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u84	Well, that's very concise. Fortunately, we still have Mr Omtzigt. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u85	We have a problem in the Netherlands, and the Minister has already given it to us, quite a problem with the permanent supervision of legal persons. That's pretty weak. Can there be an investigation into the possibilities of making that economy sufficiently transparent? Now you see that you can just change the property of real estate by changing the driver abroad, but you don't see anything about that in the Netherlands. So a lot is out of sight. Is the Minister prepared to consider the possibilities for improving transparency and to inform the Chamber about them in that consultation or later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u86	Maybe I can take this with me in the reconnaissance we're conducting on the bill. It is not the case that there is no supervision of legal persons at all. At present, for example, one of the justice services, Justis, continuously screenes the integrity of legal entities. This means that every change, for example in the data of legal persons, their directors and shareholders, is checked and placed in addition to the legal and criminal documentation to see if things are going on there. When things play there, these kinds of signals are also passed on to the public prosecutors or supervisors, for example. The question is whether more is needed. I would like to do that, but I would prefer to go into the broader framework I have just mentioned, namely the preparation of the legislative proposal we are currently working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u87	I would like to thank the Minister for being involved in this. I am thinking, for example, of the situation where a foreign legal person in the Netherlands has real estate and a change of directors takes place. I think it is extremely difficult for the Justis service at this time to see if or not this person can get his vog abroad. In fact, you avoid the transfer tax in the Netherlands, because you transfer real estate if you do it that way. If you do that in the Netherlands, you owe transfer tax, and not there. But you're also losing sight of who has it. So if you would like to include such matters in that investigation, that would be very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u88	I would like to look at that but I also see a number of practical complications. In the supervision of foreign legal entities, the question is whether our wristhold extends that far. This is also about the supervision of these legal entities by foreign authorities. I do not know if Dutch authorities could do that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u89	Yeah, that's exactly what you've got to deal with. It is possible that there are foreign authorities in countries that have slightly less good supervision than the Netherlands. You say they are responsible for that. Then you know how to set up a criminal organization here. You will ensure that you sit with your legal person abroad. This is not about the flow companies; they like to sit in the Netherlands and you will ensure that there is no supervision there. Then the Dutch Minister says: yes, that must be done abroad. You're putting a loophole in the law here. I would ask you to take with you how we can monitor this properly. I'm not saying that's easy, because I would have given you a solution, but I hope you'd want to include that in the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u90	I would very much like to look at that, of course, but there are a lot of things happening abroad that we do not like and that we have little influence on. That is actually the reality we are dealing with. In the Netherlands, we are in good shape, and when it comes to transparency, we also raise many of these issues at European level. We are increasingly working to bring this type of legislation into line with each other. I am happy to see if there is any more possible, but I am sparing the expectations of Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u91	I'm assuming they're looking at this very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u92	Of course; I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u93	I understand it's hard. If that legal person has something very small here, it'll all be fine. But if a legal person has a lot of assets or a lot of money here, there's every reason to see if anything happens when he's abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u94	Fine. Mr. Snels just a little bit longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u95	I actually only had two questions in the first term. The first question has been addressed in detail. The second question was about culture in the sector itself. I don't know if that's for the Secretary of State or the Secretary of State. I mentioned, by analogy with the Banking Code, the idea of a Code of Tax Advisors and an oath by tax advisors could contribute to a debate in the sector about their own actions and their own culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u96	I think it is about the social benevolence that my colleague has just spoken about. There are already several professional codes, but I do not mind having to sit down with different professional groups, not only to see what you can regulate, but also what the profession itself can do to tighten up its own codes in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u97	Thank you. I appreciate that. It seems to me that the Dutch Order for Tax Advisors is then the interlocutor. I don't know if it's for the Minister or the Secretary of State, but I'll leave that to you. I would, however, appreciate it if at some point we could all not be informed quickly about what that has achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u98	I think my colleague and I are going to do that. We will also involve the Financial Supervision Office. We can arrange such a conversation and let the results of it be known.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u99	Very good. So much for the first term. I will look in the Chamber to see if there is a need for a second term. Mr. Alkaya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Several things have been discussed, but I think the key question has been asked by Mr Nijboer: do we want to do all this? What is the added value of these trust sectors and even of the constructions that we allow in the Netherlands? They make tax avoidance easier and the only counter argument I have heard from the cabinet is that it is open to everyone to provide services that are needed. I don't think that's really enough. On the other hand, the cabinet with the withholding tax is addressing a problem that I have also called attention to. I think it can go on in that and that is why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that fair tax policy means combating tax avoidance;]] [[noting that it is time-consuming for the Tax Administration and it takes a long time to get a case against a taxpayer who avoids tax;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of increasing the burden of proof, or the reversal of the burden of proof, on the basis that the taxpayer must demonstrate that the prevention of multiple countries in a property structure is not used for tax avoidance or concealment of assets, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34566-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u101	Next. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Tax Constructions has produced interesting findings;]] [[expresses the wish of a parliamentary survey on tax constructions by wealthy persons and companies and the role of the Netherlands in those tax constructions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34566-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u102	Thank you. Then Mr Omtzigt of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Also thank you for the commitment of zero measurement and then the measurement of the annual flow, and for the fact that we are still getting information about the rulings exchanged with other countries and also with the European Commission. I remain very curious as to what questions the European Commission has asked in recent months. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first motion concerns the foundations. We think that barrier should get a little lower before you deposit. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that foundations are often not obliged to deposit annual accounts and can be used for tax avoidance structures;]] [[calls on the Government to propose, within eight months, an obligation for certain foundations to deposit and at least look at annual accounts:]] [[- whether the foundation drives an undertaking;]] [[- whether the profit or turnover exceeds a limit to be determined,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34566-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u104	I would also point out that if the first condition is met, it must do so already, and in the second case we are thinking of a lower limit and the expiry of the two-year period. We believe that it is very important that this deposit is also adequately controlled, as I have just had a debate with the Minister because there are a lot of rules, but control is sometimes lacking. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that DNB has been finding serious abuses in the trust sector for years;]] [[noting that the trust sector has an important gatekeeper function, including providing new legal entities with an (post) address;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibilities of preventing and reporting to the Chamber within six months of the granting of residence by the trust sector to transit companies and mailbox companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34566-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u105	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Van Weyenberg from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to all three rulers for their reply. As far as the trust sector is concerned, we are therefore awaiting the capacity of supervision. I welcome the report by De Nederlandsche Bank, who has promised the Minister of Finance and the appreciation that comes with it. A number of colleagues also asked about this. I await the answer to the question whether DNB, De Nederlandsche Bank, is also able to see if that falling number of intermediaries means that there has been a movement towards shadow trust. I have heard the Minister correctly about the residences. It's not easy. That is why Mr Omtzigt and I have put forward a research motion to take a good look at that. I am open to problems, but I believe that the present situation needs to be improved. I know that the same applies to Mr Omtzigt. I'm curious about the outcome of that investigation. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the Secretary of State. He finds the word "businesscase" unhappy when it comes to more enforcement. I can see why he said that. The background was of course: how can you find money to do that? But if he does that regularly, the better. So I thought that was very good news, and I'll wait and see. What I think was the news of the Secretary of State was that mandate disclosure, in which I think the Secretary of State put on a bigger pair of pants than before. That you really have to report that planning of aggressive cross-border constructions as an intermediary, sounded like music to my ears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u107	Thank you. Then Mr Snels from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the government's commitment to talk to the tax advisors. In my first term, I wouldn't have made the analogy with the Banking Code and the accounting sector for nothing. In those sectors of the financial sector, too, much is wrong. But the most important thing I see happening there is that there is a strong and very serious internal debate about their role in society. I miss that with the tax advisors. That's why I asked: Shouldn't there be a code of tax advisors or an oath for tax advisors? These seem to me to be good suggestions for improving culture in the sector. I am therefore anxiously waiting for the report from the cabinet. Finally, I have a comment for the Secretary of State. We have the law, we have the scope of the law, we have the spirit of the law, we have the advocacy and we have the border exploration. And that's where I think the puzzle is: the law on one side and the border exploration on the other. You have to abide by the law; we don't want the border patrol. That grey area causes problems or at least leads to discussions. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, after the consultation on the ruling practice, to report to the Chamber on the outcome of that consultation, to provide these concepts with meaning and to show what they ultimately mean for the work of ruling teams and tax inspectors. Because I think there's also a cultural problem here with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u109	Thank you. Then Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the first period, I asked the fundamental questions. What the hell is the Netherlands? Is that a flow-through country? And what can we do about it? Indeed, there is a lot of detailed legislation in the field of taxation, which we deal with separately. Legislation for the trust sector is also dealt with separately and we are still getting a register of final stakeholders. Together with Mr Alkaya, I have tabled a proposal for a central shareholder register. There are still very precise discussions about this, but the essence of this debate is the question: what should you want as the Netherlands and what should you no longer want to cooperate with? I am pleased that the Minister for Finance acknowledges that the sector is really unhealthy and that much remains to be done, and that he has promised in the debate that he will also look at this fundamentally and come back to it. That's why I'm not making a motion, because we're not short of that in this house. So I will also support Mr Omtzigt's and Mr Van Weyenberg's motion, which actually says: we have to get rid of all those directors of those 20,000 companies who are actually only on paper but are not under any company; see how that can be done. That is a good thing. If these parties in the Chamber also cooperate in this, we have taken another step to get a majority in order to keep this sneaky thing from paying taxes and getting rid of them. Mr. Chairman. If that is the result of our committee and if we can continue to take further steps in this respect, we will have a satisfied almost-ex-President here after this debate we will really be removed from the parliamentary interrogation committee. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u111	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. It is customary in a parliamentary survey that we as a Chamber give a kind of discharge and thank you for your work, but this is the first time we have this construction. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u112	Isn't there a bottle of wine?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u113	If there is a bottle of wine, Mr. Omtzigt asks. Mr Mulder of the Freedom Party has waived his speaking time. Mrs Lodders of the VVD is the last speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u114	Thank you, Mr President. We talked here about paper reality, the interrogation committee's report. On one thing, we are in total agreement, and that is that we want to tackle tax evasion. When it comes to tax avoidance, there is, of course, always a grey area. I think that Mr Snels has rightly pointed that out. But this debate has also confirmed to me that we are extremely busy in the Cabinet and in the Chamber to tackle both tax evasion and tax avoidance, which we really do not want. Not everything that can be done, should be. I therefore believe that this has been a good debate, in line with the debates we have already had and the debates we will certainly have in the future. I hope it's not a paper reality. Perhaps it is also good to mention the following here; the Minister for Legal Protection referred to it briefly. Of course, a great deal is being done to tackle fraud. Let us not forget that either. I appreciate all those people who are doing this and the good steps they are taking. Mr President, may I leave it at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u115	Sure. So much for the second term of office. We're gonna listen to the rulers. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u116	Mr. Chairman. I should like to say a few words about the motions for resolutions on the items Nos. 9 and 11. The Secretary of State will deal with the motion in section No. 8 and the Minister for Legal Protection makes the motion in part No. 10. As regards the motion in part No. 11: This is extremely simple, because that is not up to the cabinet but to the Chamber. Mr Alkaya made an appeal on behalf of the Chamber. There it has...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u117	You mean the motion in part No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u118	Sorry, yes, I mean the motion in part number. 9. Excuse me, I said it wrong. The cabinet therefore has no opinion on the motion in part No. 9. As regards the motion in part No. I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. I would like to repeat in Mr Omtzigt's direction what I also said in the debate, namely that I am not in advance hopeful that this is the solution to the problem. I think there should be a fundamental solution, but I can imagine that he and Mr Van Weyenberg need that research. So let's at least do that. Then we'll see what comes out of it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u119	Thank you. The Minister for Legal Affairs then has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u120	Yes, then the Secretary of State can... With the motion in part No. 10 by Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Lodders, I can in principle get out of my way in the run-up and further elaboration of the bill we are working on. So I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u121	Thank you. The last word is for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just got a question. This is not in a motion, but it is important to mention it. It was about the brief discussion about whether you should have an oath for tax advisors. Despite what has already been said that we are going to look at this, I would like to return some kind of realism to the discussion. What a tax advisor is, we all cannot define, because that is not an established profession. If I've advised my neighbor for a few days in the sense of "you have to do in box 3 once sister and so on" I'm actually already a tax advisor. It's gonna be hard to summon me to take that oath, too. At the same time, I support what is behind it, namely the cultural change. Let's take a look at the how and what. We do our best, but I still want to do a little bit of expectation management, because this is not an established profession as in other cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u123	I think I was clear about that myself in my first term. So I get the trouble, but the analogy is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u124	Okay. Then the motion to part No. 8 by Mr Alkaya and Mrs Leijten. It actually takes back to our earlier little debate on whether to reverse the burden of proof when there is a suspicion. I have already tried to point out that it is extremely difficult to establish that something is a suspicion. You can see that something is not within the laws and regulations. Then we can act. We're already weighing up and turning around. It is not possible, as I have just explained, for a conjecture alone. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u125	Thank you. We thank the three rulers for being with us today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-8.u126	We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday. So much for this debate.
