ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u1	The next item is the debate on the consequences of the decentralisation of youth-ggz. I would like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport to trade union K. I give the floor to the applicant for this debate, Mr Peters, on behalf of the CDA. Oh, he traded with Mrs. Tielen, I see. Mrs Tielen, given the presence of the VVD Group, I can see that it is your maiden speech. I call Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, to the colleagues who are the first to give me the stage. The first movie I saw at the movies was Ciske de Rat. I was 12. My mom took me out because it was my birthday. I thought it was quite an experience and a beautiful, moving film. The song Danny the Munk sang at the movie became a hit. My sisters and I have sung a lot and often loudly: "I feel so damn alone." Last year, my daughter turned 13. I took her to the musical Ciske de Rat, a beautiful and moving performance. I was still touched by the loving attention of the schoolmaster and the stepmother. Even now I found it quite difficult to feel the distraught anger of mother and son completely. The story now did more and made me think. I was a councilman in Utrecht and interfered with the decentralisation of care for the youth. I had spoken about it with many different people: neighbourhood team workers, parents, young people, specialists, civil servants, shelters. The musical led me to the question of how Ciske and his family would do at this time. Last week I was with Nicole, mother of a teenage boy with some serious problems: behavioral issues, suicidal tendencies, psychoses. The story of Nicole and her son is very different from Ciske's, because time is different and care is different. What matches is that Nicole also feels so damn alone, because she feels that only her GP takes her seriously, so she can't count on appropriate help at the right time. That's not the kind of concern a mother should have. I am pleased and honored to be here on behalf of the VVD and to be able to help Nicole's son and all those other children, their parents and the care workers involved. This debate is about the decentralisation of youth-ggz and about the waiting times that there are or appear to be in the specialist youth-ggz. Perhaps the debate is actually about cooperation. It has already improved in many places, but there still seems to be a gap between the specialist youth ggz and the generalist general practitioner, the district teams and the municipalities. Unfortunately, not all professionals take parents seriously, or worse: don't take each other seriously. Parent and child suffer from that. The VVD is convinced that a decentralised organisation of the youth ggz is best, close to the family and with short lines to other aid workers, so that one family, one plan and one aid worker applies, also to specialist assistance. We also see that it doesn't work the way it should. Perhaps partnerships need some time and certainly a firm encouragement. That is why we have a number of questions. Last summer, Van Rijn undertook to ensure that the actual waiting times would become clear and to inform the Chamber about a solution. We had expected some information about this by now. The question to the Minister is when he can keep Van Rijn's promise. The administration often stands in the way of cooperation. Each partner administers in his own way. Is there any more information about the use in practice of the VNG standards for administration and procurement and can the Minister tell us what he is doing to ensure that it actually works in practice and that less needs to be administered? What about the scraping sessions? Innovation is about new providers and new ways of working together. There are successful pilots in Groningen and Eindhoven, for example, in which the GP, the POH, the district teams and the specialist youth-ggz work together. This shows that joint agreements are precisely the way to ensure that appropriate care is used much faster, with high quality and at limited costs. I've referred to it before. Can the Minister let us know which municipalities are already participating and what they need to get inspired to work on these pilots? I'd like a commitment. Finally. Liberalism for me is believing in the power of the other, taking the other seriously. It is working with the other for the best solution. That is what I can be expected to do in the coming years. Taking others seriously and sometimes not taking myself too much. To be continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u3	Thank you. Thank you for your lovely speech. Through the maiden speech we learn a lot about the person behind the MP. They're always the most beautiful speeches I've seen so far. Thank you. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments to allow you to receive the congratulations. I should like to begin by congratulating you very warmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u4	Let's move on to the debate. I call Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is the continuing criticism of free-standing youth-ggz professionals after decentralisation. In summary, the criticism is that there is a huge increase in bureaucracy, low rates and complex procedures and requirements for municipal procurement. From now on, free-standing psychologists would focus on adults and less on children. My first question to the Minister is whether he recognizes the image that free-based psychologists are only going to focus on adults. We are not discussing today the comprehensive evaluation of the Youth Act, which counts 637 pages. Measuring is done and we leave it to the minister, together with municipalities and institutions, to weigh it in the first instance. The Minister will send a response. We will be discussing this in detail in the Chamber. Around the youth ggz I would like to raise a number of issues. First of all, the purchase. Does the Minister share the view that the free-standing psychologists are very difficult to obtain a municipal contract? If so, does this affect the availability of care for children, or can the Minister confirm that municipalities buy enough ggz care, but rather do business with larger institutions? To sum up, is there a problem and if so, is that a problem that affects children or is it mainly a problem of caregivers? Also, we are currently receiving many reports of staff shortages within the ggz, at all levels. Does the Minister recognize that image? I'd like a response to that. The CDA strongly supports regional cooperation between municipalities. Municipalities have two buttons to turn on when purchasing care: rate and access. When the total budget falls, institutions and providers tend to increase the volume and then provide a lot of light care. That is not necessarily malicious or smart entrepreneurship, which is as often the only way to survive as an institution. The CDA is therefore seeking the solution in long-term contracts and security of supply in numbers and then in regional cooperation between joint municipalities and a collaboration of healthcare providers in order to make this transformation possible. In the past, the Minister has indicated that within the current procurement rules there are far more possibilities for such a way of contracting than many municipalities know or think. The Minister has promised to discuss this with municipalities. What about these conversations and what are the most striking conclusions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u6	In my view, this is the fourth debate the new Chamber is holding on this issue. Indeed, we have had the evaluation for a few days now, so we have been able to take it. I am really very surprised at this contribution from the CDA, which has requested this debate. The CDA minister is there in field K. Is it just asking a few yawn questions or does the CDA also want concrete action from this minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u7	Whatever the CDA wants, I said. The reason why this debate has been requested is a letter from the free-based psychologists. That really is a letter of fire, which says: 'Dear people, the rates are too low, we suffer from bureaucracy and we suffer from complex procurement conclusions.' That's what I said. My question then is quite logical: is what is in that letter of fire really a problem? I want to know whether there is too little concern or not, and if so, what we are going to do about it. I will come back to that in my contribution. These seem to me to be very valid questions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u8	Yeah, questions we know the answers to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u9	I haven't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u10	In the meantime, three quarters of the municipalities have been waiting lists. In the meantime, we know that the evaluation of the Youth Act shows that this whole transfer has simply failed, that it is a mess, that youth psychiatrists are leaving youth aid because they no longer like it. And then the CDA comes here with a few questions, to find out if it's really true! These are children, for example girls with anorexia nervosa who can't go anywhere or suicidal children who can't go anywhere. This is the fourth debate on this subject. My question is: what does the CDA want from the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u11	As far as I am concerned, this debate is not about suicidal children, nor is it about the evaluation of the Youth Act. That is what we are going to talk about. I have requested this debate in response to the letter of fire from free-standing psychologists. That seems to me to be a problem enough. That's what I want to talk about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u12	Second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u13	Yes. Why would those free-standing psychologists send that letter of fire? You read the paper, Mr. Chairman, don't you? The CDA reads the newspaper, right? The CDA knows that three-quarters of the municipalities now have waiting lists, that there is a shortage of money, that children with psychiatric problems aren't getting up and that parents are holding hands in their hair? What kind of cowardly questions are these, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u14	That judgment of value is wonderful, but the questions are simple. I read the letter of fire and there are three questions in it. One question I dealt with and the other two I'm going to deal with now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u15	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u16	Mr. Chairman. Not only should municipalities cooperate regionally in the eyes of the CDA, but that should also apply to providers. If, driven by market forces, they are going to seek competition in other regions, there is a risk that, although sufficient care has been bought in, waiting lists will nevertheless be created. Just because the care is delivered to people from outside the region. Also, municipalities that have children on the waiting list will be forced to buy care outside their contract partners. In this way municipalities pay double and the waiting lists remain in place, especially as care providers with waiting lists do not refer children to other providers who do have space. Does the Minister recognise that regional cooperation would also be a good idea for institutions and caregivers? And how could the Minister promote such cooperation? And, finally, does the Minister see opportunities to force caregivers and institutions to forward clients to each other? Institutions and caregivers come to terms with bureaucracy, especially because of the excessive drive for legality and the fact that each municipality has its own system of accountability. The Minister has indicated that he wants to work on reducing bureaucracy. One of the quick wins would be for municipalities to coordinate their systems or even better, whether forced or not, to use the same systems. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr President, finally and again for Mrs Agema. I have requested this debate on the basis of a letter of fire from the free-standing psychologists. Not to evaluate the Youth Act here, but to ensure that there would be sufficient psychological assistance for children is and remains available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u17	I was not really going to interfere very much in the debate, but, following Mrs Agema's example, I must say that there is a great temptation to do so. Because Mr Peters is asking a lot about the familiar path: doesn't the Minister think it would be good to work more regionally together? What does Mr Peters himself think he's going to answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u18	I don't know what he's gonna answer. If that's true for municipalities, it is. And if that is the case for institutions, then the follow-up question is: what are we going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u19	Exactly, Mr. Chairman, then I am where I want to be. What are we gonna do about it? We can always observe this in debates with each other, and I think we have already done so, but the next question is: what are we going to do? I'd like to start by hearing from the CDA a thought about how we're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u20	I do not think we have talked about institutions here. If it is, we'll do it for the second time now. As far as I'm concerned, it wouldn't be unwise at all to make regional agreements about who you're working with and who you're not with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u21	Second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u22	Making appointments and saying to each other that's a good idea, that's what I'm for. But then I'm curious about how you enforce that. I think that's where the shoe is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u23	I think there's a part of the shoe wringing there. It is already very complicated to make regional agreements between municipalities and to enforce a form of solidarity in this respect. That's one of the questions I'm asking. We can conclude here that it is important, but we will also have to conclude that it will have to be done. And indeed, how are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u24	I agree with all that, but I suspect that the debate will end with this type of fine observation. If you are going to bring us all together for an urgent debate on this issue, then at some point we must get butter on the fish. I would have expected the CDA to come forward with at least a number of concrete proposals. That's just a little more than a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u25	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u26	Mr. Peters, Mrs. Westerveld also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u27	Mr Peters is right to say that he has requested the debate following a letter of fire from free-standing psychologists and psychotherapists. They literally say that there is a bald blow as a result of the decentralisation of youth-ggz. Indeed, they also say that the rates are too low. On the other hand, the municipalities say to us and to the media that they also have insufficient budget. I would therefore like to ask Mr Peters once again, following the example of the other two Members: what should we do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u28	You ask a question about the rates. The free-standing psychologists have mentioned three problems. These are, first of all, the problems with purchasing and getting contracts. I think I made a move for that. I said: it would be nice if they worked together, for example in corporations and in regions. Perhaps municipalities within the procurement rules can do more than they themselves think. There's gonna be a reaction to that. The second problem is that they suffer from bureaucracy because of the municipalities that do not work together and each one asks for the same thing in a different way. Well, I think we can settle that. I will hear a response from the Minister in a moment. And the third problem concerns tariffs. You haven't heard me about that. That's also true, because that's what the municipalities are about in principle. It is a question of what is being done when municipalities indicate that they are short of money. We have already asked this question in a previous debate and we know what the Minister replied to it last time. And to do that again! It's gonna say, at the Wmo, we're gonna have a spare. You can slide that to the youth. First of all, we have to wait and see how big the deficits for young people in municipalities really are, because last year they had money left over. I mean, those questions have been asked. Then I won't have to ask them again. Or we're gonna say, "We're gonna have to redistribute over municipalities." Of course, if there is to be a move, then the municipalities that are now left with money are not happy. My aim is to ensure regional coordination, and to agree in advance that there is solidarity. That seems complicated enough to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u29	It is interesting to hear Mr Peters say what the Minister might say to us later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u30	I told him what he said last time. I've been listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u31	But I would also like to ask Mr Peters the question: what do you think should happen? If we hear from both providers and municipalities that there are deficits and that they are stalling, doesn't the CDA think that maybe we should look at whether the budget should go up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u32	What the CDA said last time and this time again says: first see how big that problem is, and then really not on the words but on the actions or you can slide it within the Wmo. And if there's another problem, then maybe you should. Yeah, you can. Let's wait and see what we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u33	That half a billion has been cut by the previous cabinet and that this cabinet has not chosen to replenish that money again, I do not think we can agree on that. But Mr Peters does say something else interesting, namely that we must force solidarity among ourselves. There are municipalities that are not cooperating now, which say: I see that in my neighborhood there are all kinds of children without care, but I do not add any more money. Is that what Mr Peters is referring to? Do you think he might want to arrange something for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u34	I think it would be very wise for agreements to be made on this solidarity within a region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u35	I am glad to hear that we can arrange something for that, because of course it should not be the case that municipalities just look away at the moment when a neighborhood really gets caught up. But can Mr Peters also say that at least it is not just a matter of agreements? Some municipalities say: we can meet until we have a way, but keep to it, whoa!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u36	I'm not those congregations, I'm not even the minister. So I'm gonna wait for his reaction first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u37	Mrs. Agema, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u38	I'm really more surprised by the minute. Indeed, I had another question from my second interruption. I took the letter with me for a while. It's October 7th. And Mr. Peters here asks the minister questions, he asks, "Well, huh, what's the deal? It's really incredibly alarming! It says: Many free-standing psychologists and psychotherapists are either gonna stop treating children and young people or are gonna do so soon. The kids aren't, and the adults are! And then the CDA here only asks a few questions to the minister. What does the CDA think? What needs to be done in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u39	The CDA requested this debate when the letter came in on 7 October, and not yesterday when you sometimes insinuate it. No, it's not. There's a letter of fire that says what's going on. I repeated those three points. I want to take action on that and see what we can do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u40	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start with a positive note. In the coalition agreement we see a number of plans to improve youth care. During the previous debate, the Minister also stated that he saw that there was a lot of work to be done. That is why I hope that we will take this debate a step further, because we should also be aware that there is still a great deal to be done in a very short time. A few weeks ago, we saw a minister in the news who indicated that he wanted to work on foster care after the 18th year. Of course, we love that. I ask the Minister whether, in addition to the extended foster care, he can quickly pick up the other part of the motion which we tabled and which we almost supported in Parliament, and start working on the possibilities for extended youth care. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the rates in youth care. There are many justified complaints about too low fees for providers and youth care rates. This debate has everything to do with that. We really need to prevent institutions and free-standing psychologists and psychotherapists from retreating and leaving the field. Through the President, I ask the Minister whether he can also see that he has a role in this and, if so, what role it can play. Of course, the rates cannot be separated from the too tight budgets that municipalities experience when it comes to youth care. In the previous debate, the Minister felt that this was primarily a task for the municipalities and for the institutions. I ask him whether he acknowledges that this almost leads to a race to the bottom and that this is very undesirable. What tools do healthcare providers have to avoid being shipped off at too low a rate? I'll get to that in a minute. According to GroenLinks, what the Minister can do is to instruct the Dutch Healthcare Authority or ask for the rates to be reviewed. These haven't been calibrated since the new Youth Act. Leaving everything to the market clearly does not work, as all this shows us. We think that should change. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The strict tendering procedures that local authorities have to deal with do not cheer us up. Where a motion by GroenLinks and SP was rejected at this time last year, a majority of the House and the current minister now recognise that there is a problem here. We have not yet seen a cabinet response on how to deal with procurement. When can we expect it, I ask the Minister. The Minister indicated that he did not want to wait with the European route, as he called it at the time. Could he reveal anything more about that? Mr. Chairman. The Youth Transition Authority will last a little longer, until 1 April this year. They assist in the continuation of youth care and can mediate between municipalities and institutions. Although it is not a real market master, they do possess valuable knowledge and skills about the Youth Act. That is why I ask the Minister if he sees opportunities to transfer this knowledge and skills to, for example, the Health Inspectorate. Where else can institutions and municipalities deal with questions about fair rates and contracts? Does he agree with me that this should be properly guaranteed and that this might be a way to do so? Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns the growing group of self-payers and the very specialised youth-ggz. There are signs that the group of parents who pay themselves for youth aid is growing. Free-standing people who no longer get a contract are going to work for these parents and their children so that they no longer have to comply with all kinds of requirements and low rates. I understand very well that they do so when a contract with the municipality has become impossible, but it does promote an undesirable division. That does not seem to us to be the intention of the system, so I ask the Minister how he sees this trend. I have one more question about the purchase of highly specialised youth ggz. We ask the Minister what is going on with the expert teams in the region when it comes to coordinating and purchasing sufficiently high-specialist care. Have these teams already started in each region? Are they sufficiently ready for this new task? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u42	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I now give the floor to Mrs Kooiman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u43	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Tielen very warmly from this place. No child should be alone in child care, I say with reference to Ciske de Rat. I wish Mrs Tielen every success. About eight months ago, we were talking about Emma, a suicidal girl who couldn't get any help. For Emma, luckily, there was a place, either on the other side of the country. I do care that you have to move children around the country like a mail package, but there was help for her. A lot of kids don't have that kind of help. Psychiatrists have also collected these signals and handed them over to Secretary of State Van Rijn. If I'm still checking with parents and aid workers and asking what's going on with those waiting lists, I'm getting signals that aren't gonna cheer you up. I can imagine. If you look at the Youth Act, you'll find that there's been huge cuts. Half a billion has been cut off. You can also see that institutions lack budget and that aid workers are often fired. Families are also losing their aid workers. The evaluation confirms all these fears. The number of times that special youth assistance is called for has not been reduced. One in three families has a lot of trouble getting help at all and one in five families has to wait longer than two months. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask this Minister: does he recognise these problems? More importantly, what is he going to do about these problems? The CDA has rightly requested a debate on this, especially in the light of the freed-up people, people who have ever thought up an ideal: I want to get out of that bureaucracy, so I'm going to start myself; I'm going to help those children that I would like to help. Those people ran into a huge wall of bureaucracy that they can't get rid of. Can the Minister at least examine how many aid workers have stopped since decentralisation in the youth ggz? How many free-standing people and how many people who worked in the institutions are involved? I know the Secretary of State wanted this investigated. It would be very nice if the Minister could put that together. Can the Minister indicate what plan he has? Or does he possibly want to develop a plan to get these aid workers back to childhood care? Because that's very important. Mr. Chairman. The question may be how to do that, but there are some very nice solutions for that. For example, look at the entire procurement circus. I really like to mention that one quote from Alderman De Jonge one more time. "Come on," says the Minister. Alderman De Jonge said: "Stopping calls for tenders in healthcare is really one way of doing the care in the Netherlands a huge service. One change of law is needed, but it is free." This must, of course, be very appealing to this Minister. I even looked at the Procurement Act for a moment, because in the previous debate this Minister also mentioned it. I don't actually see any struggles or obstacles to just settle this. Why don't we get rid of those calls for tender in juvenile care? At least people will be free of that huge bureaucracy. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u44	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u45	Yeah, finally. I'm just picking, because I still have a very nice list. Together with GroenLinks and D66 I have received some very nice motions to let families see it, so they know where there is room in the youth ggz. Those motions were adopted about eight months ago. It is time for these motions to be carried out, because families simply need to know where there is immediate help and where they can knock on the door when an institution may not be able to provide assistance close by. They need to know where they can go. Certainly suicidal children and people who need immediate help and who have their hands in their hair should be able to receive immediate help. When will these motions be carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Kooiman. I call Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mr Tielen on her beautiful maiden speech, with a reference to Ciske de Rat, who ended up in youth care in the 1930s. Fortunately a lot has changed since then, but of course everything is not perfect yet. That is why we are having another debate on this subject today. But I look forward to working with Mrs Tielen! Mr. Chairman. Daniel is an 11-year-old boy from Gouda. He has been through a lot and is therefore being treated for some time in the youth ggz. Six months ago, the pediatrician referred Daniel to a fairly established psychotherapist in Voorburg. She specializes in trauma therapy and suture issues, and that's exactly what Daniel needs. So it's nice that Daniel could get a place, but then the twitching starts. Voorburg is outside the Gouda region. That is why this is very difficult. In addition, by mid-year Gouda has already invested all its budgets with providers in the region. The healthcare provider is busy in consultation with Gouda to still arrange a budget for Daniel's treatment, but this is difficult. The end of the story is that Daniel is still waiting for his treatment after six months. This example shows that in the youth-ggz it is not always easy. Healthcare providers working in different regions face different procurement, budgeting, administration and accountability policies. Together with the exclusion of contracts and the low fees, this all too often results in policies that are not in the best interests of the patient. Mr. Chairman. The Minister sent the first evaluation of the Youth Act to the Chamber last week. In a sub-paragraph, a brief reference is made to developments in youth-ggz. In my group's view, this does not do justice to the challenges that exist. The youth ggz should be more accessible to the children and young people who need this care. There is still a lot to be done for this. Let me point out that the Christian Union still sees that youth-ggz must be part of the Youth Act and must therefore remain within the remit of the municipalities. But in practice, the knowledge and expertise about the youth ggz in the district teams are often still insufficient. It is important that basic ggz is offered from the district teams and that the district teams refer more as children and young people need specialist care. This is still happening too late in some cases. Then what is to be done? Municipal district teams need to become more professional and cooperate better with local care providers in the youth ggz, not only with institutions, but also with the freely established. The latter often have a good network nearby, including schools. Often it comes down to mutual trust. How does the Minister take these recommendations from the evaluation to the round tables with the municipalities? For an integrated approach, it is also important that the general practitioners and practitioners cooperate more closely with the district teams and specialist providers. We need to prevent the moaning of vulnerable children. How is the Minister going to encourage that? A great annoyance of healthcare providers are the different conditions for contracting, administration, declaration and accountability. The government agreement therefore agreed that i-Youth would become the standard. How far along is the Minister with this? What is the Minister going to do to prevent children and young people who can receive appropriate treatment outside their own region from having to wait a long time because of bureaucracy? The Minister has indicated that he wants to raise the statutory age limit for foster care to 21, but the debate on 18-min and 18-plus is more widespread in the provision of youth assistance. What possibilities does the Minister see for the municipalities to make the most of the legal possibilities available? What about the youth ggz, in which the young person now moves from the Youth Act to the Health Insurance Act? Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the round tables that the Minister is going to organize and to the cabinet response to the first evaluation of the Youth Act. I realize that the real transformation has yet to come to fruition, but in the meantime let's not forget to remove the bottlenecks that we can remove already in order to achieve a better youth ggz for the sake of those vulnerable children and their parents. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u48	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I now give the floor to Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u49	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, congratulations to Mrs Tielen. We went to work together the other day. I therefore look forward to good cooperation. Last week, the first evaluation of the Youth Act came out. Three years ago, the Youth Act was introduced and all youth aid tasks were decentralised to the municipalities. The idea was: more customization, less breeding and better youth care. To this end, youth-ggz, mental health care for young people under the age of 18, was also brought under the responsibility of the municipalities. This was the most controversial part of the new law. It was also the reason why some groups in this Chamber for a long time doubted their support for this new law. Eventually D66 also voted in favour of the new Youth Act. The Bergkamp motion (33684, No. 115), which called on the government to explicitly involve the positioning of the ggz for young people in the evaluation of the Youth Act. Last year, in particular, there were many critical messages within the field of youth ggz. For example, the LVVP reported last October that many freely established psychologists and psychotherapists are leaving the youth ggz. It would be more than half of the self-employed who would have stopped or already stopped because of the bureaucracy and undesirable effects of decentralisation which they consider to be high. D66 takes these signals very seriously, but also finds it difficult to properly assess this criticism of, for example, independent psychologists. That is precisely why we expected the evaluation of the Youth Act to include a strong paragraph on the youth ggz, but to our surprise that is not the case. We ask the Minister: how is this possible? Does the Minister agree with us that this first evaluation lacks a thorough analysis of the youth ggz? It has also been agreed in the coalition agreement that such a specific research into youth-ggz is important. Will the Minister carry out this point in the coalition agreement and, if so, when will he launch this investigation into the youth ggz? I will give an example of a point that is left unanswered in the evaluation. On page 390, it is not clear whether the fact that many free-loungers have stopped their duties in the youth ggz has contributed to the waiting list problem of some healthcare providers. That is the waiting list issue that Mrs Kooiman has just mentioned. Last June, we had a debate in the Chamber on this subject. Young people and children will then be deprived of necessary care for a longer period of time. This can of course be dangerous, but it often drives the young person concerned and his or her parents to great despair. What can the Minister say about this? Is he also concerned about waiting lists created by stopping the independent psychologists and psychiatrists and why is it true or not? What figures or facts does he base himself on and why is this point not included in the evaluation? Mr President, a final point on bureaucracy. Not only independent psychologists and psychiatrists complain about this, but also the municipalities and institutions. The government agreement indicates that the cabinet is going to have scrapings with healthcare providers, care providers, insurers and supervisors to come up with fewer rules. Our question is whether youth ggz and wider youth aid are also involved in these scraping sessions and, if so, in what way. Of course, it is not just about rules of government, but it is often also about rules that municipalities impose on institutions themselves or in cooperation with each other. Does the Minister therefore see an opportunity to take this issue with him when discussing the round tables on youth care which he intends to organise in the coming months? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u50	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. I shall now go to Mrs Dijksma on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u51	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my sincere congratulations to Mrs Tielen on her maiden speech. This debate is a bit between hammer and anvil. We have, of course, discussed youth care extensively in December, and we are about to discuss the evaluation of the law in detail. So today's question is: what now? Because you can see in all these debates, at least I was struck by the fact that there is quite a lot of agreement in the Chamber on a number of matters. That was already mentioned by Mrs Kooiman, I think. The first question is: do we really have to start contracting in the social domain? Well, we know the Minister's view is: rather not. He wants to look at the boundaries of European law to see how he might get rid of it and also look at the current legislation. We see that from various institutions it is said: help us with clear purchasing, because if all these municipalities always start to invent the wheel, then we will become hearndol. Of course, people are increasingly keen to work with long-term contracts, which also creates much more certainty. Finally, one important point: one child, one family, one plan. Because one of the problems that I detect at least at the moment is that sometimes families and children are so many people, and you often see that they are ultimately nobody's. That is when children actually end up between shores and ships. For me, therefore, the key question of this debate was, also in the direction of the applicant: what do you want to achieve today? And can we actually take steps on some of the issues I have just mentioned? And more than just management by speech. Because that we spend a lot of words on it, I understand, but something has to change at some point, of course. One of the things that I have thought about myself, I would like to put to the Minister. In my opinion, in the transition from decentralisation to decentralisation, we have been right in our own right; I still think that with a number of people here, too, we are putting it in the hands of the municipalities, so that children and their problems can also be looked at more widely, and there should be no dividing lines between the heavier care, the ggz for youth, and the lighter forms of care. At the same time, however, you can see that in this way the right of parents and children in particular to enforce care has somehow been more compromised. Wouldn't it be wise to look for a solution at that very point? If you need a roofing chapel in a municipality and want to apply for a permit, then, for example, after six weeks the municipality does not respond to your application, the law on periodic penalty payments and appeals does not enter into force. My question is this: if we think this is a good arrangement for the rooftops in this country, why not for children in distress? So why don't we make parents stronger to be able to force care at times, when they feel like they're being sent from the locker to the wall? So we do that for other subjects too, and that might be a solution here, because I think that if you make parents and children stronger in that whole system, you will strengthen their position. Maybe we can actually enforce that norm for maximum waiting times instead of just putting it down as "that's how it could be." So I would very much like a response from the Minister. I would also like to conclude, following the debate in December, by making progress on the points I have just mentioned: procurement, care procurement, what these scrapings look like and when this now produces reduced bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u52	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u53	Mr. Chairman. I wholeheartedly support Mrs Dijksma's words. Good point. That is exactly what I expected from the CDA Group, which has been the subject of the debate here today. Mr. Chairman. I also wish Mrs Tielen every success in her debates here and congratulate her on her maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. In at least three previous debates of the new Chamber the waiting lists for the specialized youth services were discussed. It's a big mess. The new system is one big mess: suicidal teenagers who don't get the help they need, parents who don't find suitable help for their daughter with anorexia nervosa, children who have to wait far too long for necessary care, and free-standing psychologists and psychotherapists who threaten or have long been threatening to quit. Mr. Chairman. The waiting lists were already a problem when the youth ggz was still covered by the Health Insurance Act, but with the transfer to the municipalities everything would be okay. Scandalous castles of air! Politics The Hague has really turned its eyes on the parents of the children in need. The pennies do go above the kids. When it comes to psychologists: small and one-man practices spend more time on administrative bullshit than on care. They're leaving the youth ggz. They no longer want the huge administrative burden, complex procurement procedures, low fees and exclusions from contracts. And blame them. If they'd liked to spend the whole day with their noses in the numbers, they would've gotten more bookkeeping. During the legal process of the Youth Act, many signals were red, but still Secretary of State Van Rijn gave the green light; the green light to cut €450 million, 12% of the budget. That's what it was all about. The question is: how does this new minister solve this with 54 million, just over 10%? Because it is cool, a new minister who immediately responds to a television programme, like the television programme Kassa on 12 November, but what he wrote is a bit gratuitous. I quote the Minister: "What matters to me is this: a vulnerable child who needs acute care must always get it as soon as possible. Any administrative or financial issues must never be a reason not to treat a child in good time." Free beer. I would like to see the Minister's butter on the fish. With 54 million euros, I'm sorry, he's not gonna make it. Mr. Chairman. I hope that now that he is in his post for 100 hundred days, the Minister understands that this is about child and youth psychiatry. 'Cause the venom's in the tail. In the same response towards Kassa, he writes, and I quote: 'Otherwise, the Netherlands is one of the leading players in Europe when it comes to spending on (youth) ggz'. We're talking about children in need. We're talking suicidal kids. We're talking about children with anorexia nervosa. We're talking about kids who really need help, not kids who bumped their toes. Mr. Chairman. This is indeed the fourth debate of the new Chamber. I would like to thank my colleagues for adopting my motion on the national direction for specialized youth services, but I wonder if it is not too late. I also ask the Minister about the implementation of that motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u54	Thank you, Mrs Agema. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister wishes to suspend for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u55	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u56	Thank you, Mr President. This debate has become a bit of a debate between hammer and anvil, Mrs Dijksma said. It is, in any case, a debate that follows fairly briefly on from the previous and is rather close to the next. This means that it is mainly a discussion of an intermediate position. I would like to say a few things about the Youth Act, about what the Chamber decided on it at the time and about what you actually see in the practice of youth ggz. I don't think we should be too gloomy about that. Let me at least outline which route we are going to have from now on. Last week I received the evaluation of the Youth Act, a thorough report of 623 pages, I believe. I immediately sent that to your Chamber and indicated that I am now going to go into the country to have several conversations and round tables to give an explanation, a further coloring to the evaluation of the Youth Act. I would like to use those talks to give the right answer to that mid-term evaluation, because it is an interim evaluation. It cannot be more than an interim evaluation, as your Chamber itself made an interim evaluation of this. She gave it that qualification. It can't be any more than that, because the law hasn't been in force that long. We do not do the evaluation of 623 pages with it, but if you sum up it very briefly, it says: the transition has been quite successful; the transfer of tasks has been done well. At the same time, the transformation we expect from it has not yet been sufficiently successful. So there's work to be done. That is also what we said to each other in the WHO that we had in December: there is work to be done. By the way, you can already see examples of how it can be done. You'll see them in the youth ggz. I think it was a very wise decision of the Chamber at the time to transfer the youth-ggz with the Youth Act to the municipalities, to do what Mrs Dijksma says, one family, one plan, and to do what several of you have said, namely actually make an integral offer for children. You can see nice examples of this, in the neighbourhood teams for example, to which the basic ggz is sometimes added. Mrs Tielen mentioned a very good example of the POH, adding a youth ggz practice supporter to the general practitioner. That too is a nice form to link the introductory route via the GP and the social domain. So there are several beautiful developments in the youth-ggz, at least underlining the need for the transfer of youth-ggz. Mr Raemakers says: in the evaluation I do not see the youth-ggz sufficiently highlighted separately, but that was the task we gave in the Bergkamp motion. I cannot quote the song entirely by heart, but Mr Raemakers can. He's reciting the number of that motion from his head. We have a number of things to say about this. One is that the evaluation focuses on several fronts. Sometimes they're about access. Sometimes they're about the administrative burden. Sometimes they're about the way they work together. The evaluation actually says this: the whole of the youth sector is covered by the same rules as those applicable to youth-ggz. So there is not so much a specific point that would apply only to the ggz. That's one. Two is that there are a number of things that apply to the youth-ggz, for example the issue of the free-founders, which are indeed highlighted. I would think that in the coming period, when we are going to discuss and outline this evaluation, we are going to give explicit coloration to the evaluation of the Youth Act in the round tables with the youth ggz, among other things. It certainly draws conclusions for the youth-ggz and makes recommendations, but it also says that these recommendations apply to the sector as a whole and not necessarily to the individual youth-ggz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u57	I understand the Minister's statement: the study shows that many issues also apply to youth-ggz. This may come out nicely from the research perspective, but the mission of the Chamber was: go into the youth ggz explicitly; not only take it as one of the elements, but go into it very explicitly as a stand-alone thing. That's what the coalition agreement says. I looked at the page; that is what I said in the first period. On page 390, there's a half side over it. More than that, the youth-ggz has not been explicitly investigated. Can the Minister indicate how he is going to do that after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u58	It is my idea to discuss this evaluation with a number of round tables and to pay explicit attention to the youth-ggz. I would like to ask for a more detailed explanation of these different themes to the youth ggz. It's an interim evaluation and not a final evaluation. In the final evaluation, we can include all possible research questions that you would like to have asked. But for the time being, for the shorter term... On the basis of this evaluation and the explanation given to these round tables, I would like to come up with a programme of care for young people, in which we also respond to the issues that are being addressed. I think there are a lot of assignments on those 623 pages, because there is real work to be done. As soon as we manage to do that work in a good way, the youth-ggz will also take considerable advantage of it. I'd like to do it that way. For the time being, I do not feel that we should carry out a supplementary study, because I think that we have enough in our hands to know what our mission is for the coming period, especially if we allow it to be described in more detail by the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u59	Finally, Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u60	The report also mentions some of the things that have been said: this is not clear. I would like to mention, for example, the problem of waiting lists. We had a debate on this in June and a WHO in December. This has been mentioned by several speakers today. It's just not clear what it says very clearly in the evaluation report or the fact that a number of freely established psychologists and psychiatrists have stopped having influence on the waiting lists. We can all organise round tables and talk to everyone, but then we cannot objectively establish that. It's about kids on waiting lists who don't get care. However, I would like the Minister to be able to take this with him on some kind of research technical basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u61	I was actually still working on my intro in which I placed the evaluation next to the assignment that we are about to catch up with each other in the program care for the youth. I'll be back in a few minutes on the freeholds and the waiting lists. If it's all right with you, I'll answer your question at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u62	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u63	I would like to answer the questions as follows. I shall begin with the question of waiting lists. Then I'll continue with the administrative burden. Or no, I'll start with the exonerated, because most of the questions have been asked about that. Then I will continue with the waiting lists and the administrative burden, after which I will get to the 'varia' block through procurement and procurement. One moment, Mr. Chairman, I need to deal with some administrative burdens. Thank you. I'm gonna start with the exonerators. Of course I read the letter of fire. I also read the issue in the evaluation. I think there are quite a number of legitimate concerns about free-standing people. But before I go into that and ask what we are doing about it, because we are really taking a number of steps, I would like to make a comment first. The main aim of youth care is, of course, to help children. You must always want to test this type of problem. Suppose there are indeed fewer free-established persons contracted. To what extent is that really a problem? It will only become a problem if it means that children are not being helped sufficiently. We have to put it in the right context. That's one. Two: the mid-term evaluation also shows that a large number of free persons have stopped or are considering stopping. It is just not clear to what extent this leads to a problem for young people; that is also the point made by Mr Raemakers. To be honest, I do not think that is so easy to justify. By the way, there is a serious question of waiting lists, but it seems to me very difficult to explain this problem with the number of retired people, if only because they only care about a few percent of the total. I would just like to say that the waiting list problem is really more serious than the free-standing problem. I cannot, therefore, honestly imagine that the statement that the waiting lists are caused by the departure of free persons is sustainable. That's one. Two is next. Of course, we are curious about the exact situation with the free-houses, why they are leaving and how many have actually left. That's what Mrs. Kooiman asked. In any case, we are exploring the labour market, for which the task is being made at the moment. In doing so, we want to see what specific problems are involved in the care of young people, unlike, for example, the problem at all in the care sector, so just the quantitative fact: what additional problems do we have in the care of young people? I'll be right on to the waiting list block. That is what we are doing, because we know that a large part of the waiting list problem is actually staffing problems. So what can we do about that? This also raises the question of which people were ever trained for youth care, but have left in recent years, for example. They may also be seduced for youth care. So that is one thing we are doing: a labour market exploration. The second is that the VNG promotes regional cooperation between free-based healthcare providers. Questions from Mr Peters and, in my view, from Mr Raemakers dealt with this. That stimulation is important, because it is indeed the case that at the moment that free-founders work together, it becomes easier for them to be contracted. Registering for a large tender alone is not easy, but if you do so as a group, there is much more possible. That also saves a lot of administrative burdens. So regional cooperation certainly works. We also know that in one municipality there are complaints from free-loungers, while other municipalities say: we can actually get out of the way with the contracts that the municipality offers us. That happens, too. What we have made possible with the VNG is that an "intermediary-free" has been appointed to the VNG, which calls for attention to be paid to the position of free-standing people in the youth aid system. This intermediary is actually the link between the branches and the professional associations, but also between the VNG and VWS on the one hand and national programmes such as iSD and Zorglandschap on the other. The intermediary supports freely established persons with so-called "tips and tricks" in procurement contracts. In addition, there is regular consultation between professional associations and information meetings are organised for free-established providers, in particular to help them organise themselves in such a way that they can buy in. In short, one is that I do not think we should make the problem absolute. I don't think this is our biggest job when it comes to making the care of young people better. Two is that we do a serious number of things to better position the free-loungers in relation to the municipalities. I also think it's important to do that. The one about the exonerators. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go on to the waiting times. We also discussed this in depth in December. That was not for nothing; certainly not as far as the Chamber is concerned, but not as far as I am concerned either. There was quite a pile of motions waiting for me when I arrived, namely seven of them. They're all about waiting times. That is why I said at the time: I am serious about these waiting times. At the same time, I want to make sure that people think: if we make this a large national Excel file, then we have found a solution for Daniel or for Nicole's son. I don't think it's that simple. The solution is found at the level where the problem occurs: really in the region. Look, if you look at where waiting lists actually come from, it's very often about good purchasing agreements, good contract management, good triage, good waiting list mediation and good referral to other providers, and making agreements about that. Those are all backgrounds from those waiting lists. I can't do that from The Hague. Don't overestimate us. Don't overestimate yourself. It is not possible to arrange it with a magic wand from The Hague. It will have to take place in the regions. We must ensure that regional agreements are made. That is what my discussion is about as a result of the mid-term evaluation at the round table, but that is also what the 'Care for Youth' programme is about. I will come back to the type of agreements I make with the regions to break the waiting lists. Don't expect me to provide you with some sort of rural Excel file on which, for example, the waiting lists are in Geldrop. Before I sent it to your Chamber, the reality in Geldrop has changed again. Besides, we can't do anything with it. We don't have a button here to fix it in Geldrop. By the way, I don't know if Geldrop has waiting lists; it's a mere fictional example. Secondly, I would like to mention the agreement I made with the regions at the end of 2017 to create a regional expert team for children with complex problems. Most regions now have such a regional expert team. Among other things, I have an administrative meeting on Thursday. I think it is important that all municipalities have such a regional expert team; not all municipalities have that now. It's often about complex issues. A number of you, including Mrs Agema, have given examples of this. Mrs Tielen also pointed out examples in her maiden speech, with which, incidentally, congratulations, as did Mr Voordewind in his contribution. For complex problems where there is no supply, which still needs to be developed or which is very scarce, it is very helpful if there is regional perseverance. This can ensure that the offer is made, that there is an extra-regional placement or that a provider who could supply the offer but does not yet do so will indeed organise it. In short, the solution is also in the region. We need to organise that an expert team is available in the region for that type of solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u64	Are you done with this part about waiting lists?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u65	Well, chairman, gross modo about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u66	I suggest you say what you want to say now, at least on this point. Then I'll give the MPs an opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u67	Yeah, sure, I said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u68	I'm gonna give the Minister a hand to get rid of any more questions. Two motions have indeed been adopted, from GroenLinks, D66 and SP. They have all asked for the waiting list information to be made public, not only for complex cases, but also to be able to see where there is room for, for example, anorexia treatments. This can also extend beyond the region. If there is no institution in the Utrecht region, how do parents know that a place is available for their daughter in Drenthe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u69	That's a very good question. That is precisely why we have chosen those regional expert teams. Mrs Agema has just set an example of anorexia care. I know, and I've been working on it a lot. Anorexia care is relatively limited available. That doesn't have to do with money. All accounts are paid, because a nationwide arrangement has been agreed on. If the invoice is submitted, the municipality has to pay. That's the deal that was made with those high-specialist anorexia clinics. The offer is nevertheless limited. It is mainly a question of staff: can these clinics have enough places? Such a regional expert team should have a look at where that place is. I really wouldn't like it enough if we had parents looking for a good place, because it's often too complicated for that. On the contrary, we need to take parents much better by hand, and that is what I think is a lesson from the mid-term evaluation to ensure that this care is actually taken care of. In my opinion, the best way of doing this is to ensure that such a regional expert team is fully aware of where, what and what offer is available, where also national what offer is available and that parents are taken from there to take care of that good place. I think that's the crux.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u70	I'm a former aid worker myself. I worked with regional expert teams back then. The problem is that you often only end up there when you don't get out with the help that suits that family. Sometimes you already know. For example, help is needed for a girl with anorexia. Then you know very specifically what help there is, but not where the waiting lists are. The evaluation also says that those waiting lists are actually out of order and that there is no insight into them. How are we going to ensure that we in Utrecht know what is available in Drenthe and Brabant?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u71	That's the same question you asked earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u72	In the base, the system still functions as I just said. I do indeed believe that access to municipalities should be well organised at first instance. In complex cases, there must be a regional expert team. Let me talk to you about this. There are a number of forms of care. That is not about many forms, but anorexia care is a good example. It's high-clinical care, you might say, which we know is very limited. Let me now, with the evaluation, that sleek 623 pages under my arm, ask the question at these round table talks for which type of care we should give a country-wide additional picture of the care that is in the national arrangement. Where should we want to have a national picture of where there is still room and therefore also know where there might be some crunches, which means that either bridging care should be provided or supply should be strengthened? Let me promise you that. But I really want to specify it on a limited part of the offer, because I think we're going to ask ourselves differently. We cannot do that at all. It is therefore a matter of high-clinical care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u73	I have a question about waiting lists in relation to capacity. The minister said in the block that it seems unlikely to him that the shortage of free-standing psychologists causes waiting lists, because it is only a few percent of the total. In December, among other things, NOS and Radar reported that a lot of psychiatrists are being searched for at institutions. Then it's about ggz settings. Does the Minister have a clear picture of whether there is also a shortage of psychiatrists in youth ggz institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u74	Yeah, sure. The reasons for waiting lists are diverse. Sometimes it is about purchasing agreements and the way in which they are directed, sometimes it is about triage, which is that it is possible to do the toughest cases first, or is there, in a sense, a selection to get the easiest cases first? The triage is a good triage. Perhaps the most important reason for the existence of waiting lists, especially in youth-ggz, is absolutely a labour market issue. Are you sure you're okay getting enough psychiatrists?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u75	I do not quite understand the Minister's argument on this point. The Minister has just said that it is only a few percent for those who have been released and that that can never be the cause of waiting lists. And now the Minister says: at the youth ggz institutions it is also difficult to get psychiatrists; that can be a cause of the waiting lists. In the evaluation of the Youth Act, I read about this relationship that such research has not been carried out at all. So I ask the Minister: if he does acknowledge the problem, how will he solve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u76	I don't understand the connection you're making. The majority of youth psychiatry is given in institutions, i.e. not by free persons, but by youth psychiatry institutions. If these institutions indicate that there are waiting lists, it is often thought that this is because of money. The answer is that it is often not because of money, but because of a labour market issue. What I do not dare to say so much about a small group of the total offer, namely that if a number of people stop their work or do something else, which is now the problem with the waiting lists, I dare say indeed for the youth-ggz, although I have not done linear research on that. That's just a matter of being in conversation with institutions and hearing where their concern is for recruiting enough psychiatrists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u77	Mr President, my question has not been answered. My question was: if the Minister acknowledges that, and I heard that, what will he do about it in terms of actions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u78	Yeah, just to say that in a minute... Of course, we have a lot of work to do. That is the case at all when it comes to the staff in the care sector. We've had an extensive AO on that. Youth care certainly has a part to play in this, so we will have to come regionally to a labour market approach involving not only care for the elderly and the ggz, but also the youth care sector, including youth-ggz. This means ensuring sufficient new growth from the training programmes. That means being an attractive employer for psychiatrists and certainly for people who have quit their profession, as I just said to Mrs Kooiman. That means you're trying to be an attractive employer for side-intromers. So there's a lot of work to do. That is not a question of answering the question in one minute. We have a very important task here for the whole of care, but certainly also for the youth care sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u79	The minister said that as a legacy, he received seven motions relating to waiting lists. He said he was serious, but he also said: I'm not going to keep an Excelsheet of all those waiting. But let me read you the operative part of one of those seven motions (31839, No. 586). This says: "calls on the government to ensure that waiting list information is transparent and easy to consult so that municipalities can better fulfil their youth duty, and to this end to ensure that all institutions publish the data on waiting lists and waiting times." That is exactly what the Minister says he is not going to do. He says, "I'm not putting together an Excelsheet." I really, really think that's ridiculous. We ask the government here in the House of Representatives to take a motion to do so, because that is what this motion is asking for. I understand that an alderman in a municipality still gets away with not doing it, but a minister in the plenary should simply do what the Chamber wants by majority. We want that Excelsheet!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u80	If you take the operative part one more time quietly, you will see that it says that municipalities should have it insightful and that providers should make it public. I agree with all of that. So that is what the agreements I have to make are about, because that is the order the Chamber has made so that everyone can see where waiting lists are and where there is room. Municipalities need this in their contract management, because if one still has a lot of contractual space and the other doesn't, you have to make sure that access makes the right choice. Municipalities therefore need this in their constrict control. Providers also need to see what they can refer to. That's the way I'm going with these motions. I always assume that motions will be tabled to solve a problem. If we want to solve the problem, we will have to solve it where the problem is and where the actors are working to tackle it. That means we have to do it in the region. Insight: yes. Publicity at institutions: yes. But do it at the level of the region. That's where it's most relevant. Mrs Kooiman added one additional point: there is concern that is not so much regional, but specifically national. Then how do you do it there? Because that is where it is very complicated to get the overview for individual municipalities. I have just told Mrs Kooiman that I am going to raise this question at the round tables. There's a network of juvenile clinical psychiatrists. With them, I would like to see how we can nationalize the availability of that high-clinical offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u81	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought I quoted him neatly. I don't think there's a pin in that either. The Minister simply says that he is not carrying out this motion and that the other motions are not, either. But we in the Chamber do want the overview. Now the Minister says: the municipalities must do so and perhaps organise it regionally, but it is not up to Members of Parliament to decide how many are now. If so, do you want to look for information on the waiting lists? How many officials are in the U.S. Department? We'd like to know, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u83	Yes, officials, but no monks, of course. What we need to do is make arrangements to get rid of those waiting lists. That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u84	The reason why we want this national information on the waiting lists so badly is because it has actually led to action before. I would like to mention the ROS funds, the EUR 100 million from former Secretary of State Ross, which actually increased the amount of money for youth care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u85	What I have to do is carry out the motions. There's no pin to get in there. That's exactly what I'm doing. I come back in the way I do in my program "care for the youth." The content of the motions is to ensure that the waiting lists are in view and that then providers are expected to publish the waiting lists so that they can be sent. That's the goal: to get rid of those waiting lists. I'm absolutely going to meet that objective of the motion. I will come up with a ruling on the motion in the 'care for young people' programme. Then let's have a conversation about whether you think that's enough or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u86	So you'll come back to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u87	Yeah, I'll get back to you on that. I assume that I will also be able to convince Mrs Agema at that time of the way in which the motion is withdrawn and of its usefulness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u88	But do I understand that the Minister comes up with a national image?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u89	What Mrs Agema can understand is that I am doing what is stated in the motion, namely ensuring that it is portrayed at regional level and ensuring that it also has a regional approach, which includes: having a picture and having a look at the size of the waiting lists, making waiting lists public, sending the right through the contract, sending the right through waiting list mediation, and which is what I am adding to Mrs Kooiman's commitment to nationalising those forms that have not been bought and organized at all at regional level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u90	And then it is up to the Chamber to decide at that time whether or not the motion has been carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u91	Exactly, whether that motion is adequately dismissed. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u92	I very much follow Mr. De Jonge's line, with the ultimate goal...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u93	Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u94	Yes, Minister De Jonge. But he's a gentleman, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u95	He's a gentleman, but he's a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u96	I very much follow Minister De Jonge's line. Quite frankly, I do not want to look at the waiting times every Monday morning in a huge Excelsheet, precisely for the purpose of saying this to the Minister a little too little to accompany those parents and their children to the right care. The regional expert teams play a leading role in this, I hear you say. I can still go along with that, but then there is the question as to what is going on with the occupation of these regional expert teams. Do they actually have an understanding of the figures at the moment? Because I think that, in addition to carrying out the motion, the Chamber also wants to have the feeling that we have a grip on those waiting times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u97	I agreed those regional expert teams in the autumn of 2017 and they are currently in the pipeline. 22 youth regions now have a working team, 14 youth regions have such a team in place and 6 regions still have a team to set up. That's the status of the crop right now. What is even more important is the question you are asking: do they have an adequate understanding of where there is still volume at the moment? That may sound a bit technical, but that means: where else is there contract space? So, where's the room? That's the most domestic expression of it: where's just room? Of course, they must have. At the moment I do not know exactly, but in order to get that picture clearer, I will have another meeting with the industries and the VNG next Thursday. We must have that image sharp, because as I read the motions, that is the assignment. Whether there are three or four on the waiting list in Goirle for a while, that is not the most relevant. But did Goirle set themselves up to deal with waiting lists, make good contractual arrangements, have a good expert team to push through, et cetera?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u98	I suggest you move on, because you have two more topics. And we have other topics on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u99	The administrative burden, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u100	I see Mrs Westerveld wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just checking my list. We have asked a specific question on the previous point. What about the expert teams, especially when it comes to purchasing sufficiently high-specialist care? The Minister has already dealt with this in part, as well as the state of play. We asked for specific attention to be given to this point, because there have been serious problems in recent times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u102	When it comes to high-specialist care which is so specialised that it is actually bought in nationally, we see a capacity problem in a number of forms, for example in the case of anorexia care. This is not the case with some forms at all. I am not going to repeat it all, but we must make everything in the region transparent and also organise an approach that we actually put in place in the region. That's one side of the story. In addition to that, I believe that we should also do what Mrs Westerveld asks: to ensure that we also give the attention to high-specialist care in such a way that we make it nationwide. We also need to ensure that we have the lead or possibly the organisation of bridging care on the retina of the expert teams, that they also know how to deal with this complex casuistic and where is the place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u103	Please continue. The procurement and procurement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u104	I had administrative burdens, but I also think that contracting and purchasing is a good idea. I'll just do procurement and procurement first. That's actually a much nicer subject. Thank you for reminding me of my previous interviews as alderman. You asked me last time: does the Minister still think what he thought as an alderman at the time? And the answer to that question was "yes." I have also predicted that every time you ask me that question, the answer will be yes. Unless, of course, I'm convinced by a better story, but for the time being I'm also attached to consistency. So yes, purchasing and contracting is a big issue. We also see this coming back in the mid-term review. We then looked at how we could give shape and substance to this. The first is that we support the municipalities with the hand delivery as it was done via the VNG with PIANoo. That is a step, but it is not enough to actually do what is necessary. There are actually two lines. The first is to see if we can make better use of space within the current regulatory framework. That is the fastest way. I said at that time: for a large part of the problem that is now being experienced, yes. For example, short-term contracts. That is something Mr Peters mentioned. That is a big issue where institutions are very upset and say: that ultimately undermines the quality; if I have to do it with all short-term contracts, I cannot, in the end, offer the quality that is needed. So I also intend to discuss this in the administrative consultation on Thursday. I intend, together with the regions that are going to buy new products again by 2019, which are actually going to buy the whole of youth care again, to see what maximum scope we can achieve within the procurement rules. I mention making agreements on multi-annual contracts. Europe does not have to do anything for us, we can do it ourselves. I call it a little dim when it comes to all the administrative burdens and accountability burdens. Europe doesn't have to do anything there, we all can do it ourselves. So we can do a lot of just ourselves. And I would like to pick that up together with a number of regions that are going to start purchasing again next year. And I want to support that, too. That is what we can do in the short term and what provides the quickest result. What I want to do next, and that is what Mrs Dijksma also referred to, is to look at the question: what else do you really run into? That's why I need that one route. I'm not really gonna wait for it either, but it does provide information, of course. And what scope would there be in the interpretation of the rules, or to what extent should that European regulation really be amended? That's not a trajectory I'm getting results from tomorrow. It's not like that. If I have more to say at that point, if I have more to say about the steps I am taking at that point, I will, of course, report back to the Chamber. That first stage, at least for now, has the highest priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u105	I am, of course, very curious about what comes out of the administrative consultation. Can the Minister inform the Chamber of that trajectory? Of course, we're very curious if it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u106	Yes, I understand that, but I also want to be careful that I have to send a note every week with what I've been discussing. So I think it's nice to put it together a little bit. The Care for Youth programme is coming up; it will be in April. I think that's a good time to give another update on everything I do in the field of procurement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u107	If this is possible for the general consultation Youth, it is very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u108	And that's in...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u109	When is that, Mrs. Kooiman? April.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u110	I'm gonna try to time it as best I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u111	And also try to finish, if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u112	Yeah, that's what I'm gonna do. A few things have been asked about the administrative burden, for example whether the standards are being used. That's what Mrs. Tielen asked. The last picture I have of that is the picture of mid-2017. That's when you saw that the standards were used better than in the years before. However, we have also seen that not all municipalities still use these standards. This leads to a great deal of administrative burdens for institutions. That is why, as I announced in December, I come up with a legal anchor. If it's okay, that law's in your room by now. So we are also going to try to legally enforce that, if you agree, of course. Mr Raemakers asked about the use of the scraping sessions. You see different initiatives from the field. The district nurses have their own initiative and the ggz has its own initiative. I think that the youth care sector may well take another step towards reducing administrative burdens. I think there's still room in youth care too. In any case, we would like to discuss this, also in connection with the mid-term review. A number of people have referred to the residence principle. This is also the subject of a legislative proposal. The Basic Registration Persons will be leading the youth assistance without residence. That saves a lot of "case to the wall" conversations between institutions and municipalities about the billing. In addition, an app has been developed for small providers to easily declare to municipalities. This also leads to less administrative burdens. Moreover, as I said, I am very open to all initiatives in the sector and I am happy to discuss them. Then I have a few more questions under the "varia" block. Mr Voordewind asked about the cooperation with the local teams. There's diversity. "Thousands of flowers bloom" is a bit the description of the midterm evaluation. I'd like to talk to congregations about that, because I think a thousand is just a little much. This is no longer feasible for the second line, which then is difficult to scale down to district teams and difficult to know what to expect and what not to expect from district teams. And if a third of the parents say that access isn't that easy to organize at all, district teams have something to do. So I'm gonna talk to the municipalities about that. I would like to come back to the way we can choose more uniformation among the district teams, so that we know better about each other what to expect. I have already told Mrs Tielen that I am going to look into the cooperation pilots with the POHs, the district teams and the specialist youth ggz, including in Eindhoven. I am going to look into this very carefully, because I think this is a very interesting form of the route via the GP towards the second line and a way to better connect the social neighbourhood teams. So I'm gonna get into that and I'd like to get back to you on that. Then Mrs. Dijksma...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u113	Mr Voordewind has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That is an interesting idea, because the municipalities often explain the access differently. Some put a lot of emphasis on the district teams, others on the CJGs and others do it mainly through the GP. Does the Minister also consider that there should be a further shift from the GP to the district teams so that we can achieve integrity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u115	Yeah, I think so. In fact, I think you could say the following. Some municipalities have proactively set up their district teams. District teams go there more on their way to, for example, general practitioners to make themselves known and to make cooperation arrangements. These municipalities have equipped the district teams in such a way that help is given there. The district teams are not only an access point, but also self-help is organised as part of "one plan, one family, one director." Those district teams themselves offer access and you see in those municipalities that the need to go to the second line through the GP simply decreases. So there is definitely something to send, also by municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u116	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u117	The minister is going to organize round tables. Can he include this point in the various conversations? Then we can also see the results and the cabinet response to the mid-term evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u118	Yeah, I'd love to. Then to Mrs Dijksma's point: the roof chapel. I do not know if I think the comparison is entirely happy, but I do understand what Mrs Dijksma wants. The question is whether we can organise aid in good time. The mid-term evaluation is actually quite critical of that. A third of the parents indicate that they are not at all satisfied with that access. So I'm gonna have to have a big talk with municipalities. In fact, relativisation is hardly applicable here, but the dissatisfaction about how access in the system was organised before 1 January 2015 was, of course, one of the reasons for opting for decentralisation. That doesn't change the fact that we just have work to do when a third of the parents say they're not satisfied. I like to talk about that. I would like to return to your Chamber in the way we are going to improve that access. I don't think the compulsive somide is the best idea myself. Another legal route is chosen. I think it is precisely non-jurisdiction that is the solution here. You could actually say that an enforceable right to child care already exists de facto if you combine the duty of care, the duty of youth assistance of municipalities with the right to complain. The legal path can be followed for a long time, but that is often not a solution to the problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u119	I am sorry that the Minister says this. I understand very well that he thinks the comparison with the rooftop chapel is undesirable or inappropriate, but the wretched thing is that we do judge it for that rooftop chapel and not for the children. Something's not right. Before the Minister throws the whole idea away, I still ask him if he wants to chew it and see what's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u120	However, I would like to look at its objective of improving access, improving the speed of access and reducing waiting lists. I want all of that. I will come back to the comparison between the rooftop chapel and the youth care offer. If a citizen decides to put a rooftop on his roof, everyone knows about what that means, namely that there will be a rooftop on the rooftop. A care question from parents is often less sharp and less clear in advance. So it's much diffuser. The idea is, if you haven't heard anything in so much time, you just get what you asked for. I don't see how that should work. It must be obvious what parents are asking. That is often not clear at all. In fact, especially in the most complicated cases, parents often do not ask anything at all, but it is absolutely necessary to get there. Then it is often others who feel that youth aid should be provided. I can mention a thousand differences between rooftops and youth care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u121	No, don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u122	The important thing here is that we focus on the background to your question, namely: are we able to improve access? Is it possible for parents to experience that access as less problematic? Is it possible to experience it less as a bureaucratic burden but more as taking care of parents? Can we get those waiting lists back? I very much agree with you on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u123	If people apply for a permit and the municipality doesn't answer, the numerator of the fine will run. That's the Penalty Act. In that sense, I find a situation in which a parent asks for help from municipalities and there is no answer within a certain period of time, certainly a reason to put an incentive in the system where the municipality knows: it costs us something. I understand that this question of help is complex, but this is about the fact that sometimes people literally get lost in the system and hear nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u124	I hear what you're saying. I agree with your problem description, but I just don't think I agree with your solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u125	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u126	Then I have one more question. This was made by a number of MPs, including Mrs Westerveld, Mr Voordewind and Mr Peters. That question is about the extended youth aid. I have mentioned the issue of foster care: the young people with the greatest care are given the shortest time to grow up in a family before they are supposed to be adults. There's something unmerciful about that. We really need to take a step in that. The question then is how we could organise that. That's a question I understand. I am, of course, talking to municipalities and youth care institutions about this. In the first instance, I wanted to concentrate on foster care because I think it is very sharp and at the same time relatively easy to solve. In fact, fortunately, you see a lot of municipalities making more and more use of the possibility of extended foster care. Is extended youth care a good solution? Well, sometimes not, because residential placements are often accompanied by permissions for removal. Of course, they cannot be given over the 18th year. The question is also whether young people are actually interested in this residential setting when you withdraw the authorization. I think we have something else to do in the transition from 18-min to 18-plus. We should talk to young people much sooner, not only when they are almost 18, but much sooner, for example if they are 16 or 161⁄2. We should ask them, "What if you turn 18 later? How can we make it as smooth as possible?" A large part of this follow-up care is also financed by the municipal authorities, because the Wmo-zorg is financed by the municipal authorities. A very smooth transition is really possible there if you want to. I think we should talk to young people about this much earlier, because if you do that just before their 18th birthday, they will feel a kind of liberation. They've often had to deal with their entire childhood care and they're finally done with it! Now they're gonna try it on their own! And yes, if you do that with insufficient guidance, it also very often goes wrong and that is yet another disappointment. In short, let's talk about foster care anyway to see what we can do to extend that standard and actually create the new normal. And of course I would also like to look at these other forms of care, but I do think there is something different about that. That doesn't have the simplicity of foster care. Often there is also an authorization for removal that falls away, and often young people themselves really want something different than the residential setting in which they have been in until the age of 18. But start talking about this early to make sure that the transition from 18-min to 18-plus goes smoothly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u127	Thank you. I'm looking around to see if there's a need for a second term. Mrs Westerveld, is there still a question left?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u128	Yeah, I still have a few questions that haven't been answered. I would like to ask you what is the best time to put it: now or in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u129	If you've put it before, you can call it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u130	Yeah, I guess I've put that one before. I asked the Minister, among other things, if he would see anything in order to instruct the NZa to recalibrate the tariffs. I also asked a question about the Transition Authority for Youth, which has a lot of knowledge and skills. Is it perhaps something to hand it over to the Health Inspectorate? I also had a question about the growing group of parents who pay for youth aid themselves. Does the Minister see this trend? And what's his opinion on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u131	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I have indeed forgotten these questions, while they are very nice questions! I don't feel that much for that NZa. Well, I feel very much for the NZa, but it already has a wonderful job and I don't think she needs another job on pricing in youth care. Under the law, municipalities are already obliged to set rates that reflect the different cost elements of the tariff. The collective agreement, for example, must be able to pay for it. I also know that there are complaints about tariff setting, but they are often... Incidentally, the number of complaints about tariff setting is not increasing, but rather decreasing. Secondly, you may sometimes have to want to play an intermediate role between municipalities and providers. It could be. I will come to that in response to your second question. But in general it is not possible to set national rates, because all forms of care are so different from one municipality to another that there is actually no national rate to fix.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u132	Next question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u133	It was about the T.A.J. I believe that in the near future there is still a need for the tasks of the TAJ. This concerns, for example, the organisation of the care landscape and the playing of an intermediary role between providers and municipalities. That can be about anything and everything. I do not know if the inspection is the best answer to that, but I do think we should look for something similar to the TAJ, a continuation of the TAJ, perhaps less focused on falling institutions and more focused on further stimulating that transformation and developing the care landscape in the municipalities. At the moment I am talking about this with the municipalities and with the branches. Then the self-payers. Honestly, I don't recognize the picture that it would be a hugely increasing group. If it were, you could say it's problematic. But I honestly don't recognize that it's a hugely increased group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u134	The last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u135	By the way, you can't so well prohibit people from paying for additional care themselves. Mr President, this was already the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u136	Thank you. I'm looking around to see if there's a need for a second term. That is the case, at least with Mr Peters. Speaking time is one minute and twenty seconds including tabling motions. I call Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u137	Thank you, Mr President. No motion on my part, thank you to the Minister for the answers. I agree with Mrs Dijksma, who said at the beginning that this is actually a debate between hammer and anvil. It was indeed shortly after the previous debate and shortly before the next debate, not at the time of applications, but that is what it has become. With me, the question remains about the emergency cry of the freed persons and the answer: is there a problem? Of course, there is only one problem if children receive less help than they wish. At least that is not the biggest problem, the Minister says, which he should be working on at the moment. On the one hand, that reassures me very much, but I do wonder if that would reassure the free-standing. Perhaps a brief answer could be given to that to see how you are talking about it. I welcome the way that is handled. Contracting as a corporation and by region helps and an intermediary has been set up. In any case, I welcome the answer to those questions. I look forward to meeting the real debate after the major evaluation of the Youth Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u138	Thank you. Then I'll go to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the response. There's still a lot of work to be done. I think we all agree on that. We had a motion in preparation with which we wanted to say that the knowledge and skills of the TAJ, the Transition Authority for Youth, had to be transferred. I heard the words of the Minister, who actually said: I think so too, and I am talking about that. We'll wait and see. One reason for this is, of course, that we tabled a large number of motions last December. I am glad to hear that the Minister has started working on a number of them. I am also waiting for the next debate in suspense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u140	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I now give the floor to Mrs Kooiman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u141	Mr. Chairman. I went into politics once, because as an aid worker, I didn't think it was going fast enough. Now I'm here and I often find that I need to be more patient. I find that rather difficult. When it comes to the implementation of my motions, I cannot wait that long and especially not the children who need that help. I am waiting for a moment with interest in April, but I do have a fine motion to help the Minister on his way. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that children and young people with psychological complaints are entitled to good ggz and that it is therefore of the utmost importance for children, young people and their parents to have sufficient supply available for youth ggz;]] [[noting that according to the National Association of Free-Based Psychologists and Psychotherapists many free-based psychologists and psychotherapists have left or will soon leave the youth ggz;]] [[calls on the government to find out how many youth psychologists, youth psychotherapists and youth psychiatrists have stopped working since decentralisation, to come up with an action plan to bring these caregivers back, and to inform the Chamber about this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-609]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u142	Mr President, that was a very nice motion, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u143	Thank you. Yeah, you can. Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u144	Thank you, Mr President. However, we remain dissatisfied with the response to the evaluation, and that is why I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that, in the case of the Youth Act, the Bergkamp motion (33684), No. 115), which calls on the government "to explicitly involve the positioning of mental health care for young people in the evaluation of the Youth Act";]] [[noting that the government agreement also states that "the Youth Act is being evaluated, with emphasis on youth-ggz";]] [[Whereas the first evaluation of the Youth Act does not explicitly involve youth-ggz, but involves youth-ggz, as does other areas of the health care landscape;]] [[Whereas in some respects this evaluation also raises questions about youth-ggz, in particular about waiting lists and the relationship to possible staff shortages in youth-ggz;]] [[invites the government to investigate the positioning of the youth ggz within the Youth Act, within the promised labour market research, and to report on this before 1 November 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Raemakers and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-610]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u145	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u146	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. Finally, Mrs Dijksma on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u147	Mr. Chairman. I believe that we are going to talk for a very long time about the whole of child care in the evaluation, but I had a motion to encourage it. In order to stay within the time frame, I have deleted all the considerations. That doesn't look so neat, but it comes from a good heart, you think. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the standards for maximum waiting times in the youth ggz framework can be anchored and, at the same time, to consider the possibility of a penalty payment in the event of a failure to take a decision in due time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijksma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-611]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u148	I hope the Minister sees this motion as an incentive to strengthen the position of parents. He needs to investigate something. He does not commit himself in advance to an instrument. However, I hope that we will be able to look forward to a fine letter in the evaluation itself, with a number of solutions to strengthen the position of parents, because with the Minister, I believe that we have a problem if a third of the parents are not really able to find a way in the system. Maybe he can at least promise that letter in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u149	Thank you, Mrs Dijksma. I actually want to give the floor to the Minister when the last motion has been copied and distributed, because other Members of Parliament have been waiting a long time for the next issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u150	Mr President, if you will allow me, I shall begin with the first motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u151	Fine, I always like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u152	...and then, without a doubt, the third motion is printed this way at any time. It is very exciting that there will be no official advice, but then I will surprise my officials once!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u153	We like surprises.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u154	That's right! The motion in part No. 609. I think I have actually promised a good part of this operative part to Mrs Kooiman. In fact, I said: let us involve those self-employed psychotherapists and youth psychiatrists who are apparently going to do something else, why this is so, but also whether they should be seduced for youth care. That's an important thing. At the same time, I have said that in the labour market approach there will also be an action plan to seduce those who have already left care, not specifically for youth care but for all sectors of care. So those two elements are actually already in what's coming. If I were to embrace this motion, on the basis of that labour market research, there should be an action plan for those who have been freed, already not yet aware of what is coming out of that investigation. No, that's a bit too much for me. So I'm sticking to what I promised. The motion, in this form, I do not recommend, but the spirit behind this motion I have already adequately embraced, I think. Then there's the second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u155	Very briefly, Mrs. Kooiman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u156	Because the ghost is so fantastic today, I'm holding the motion. Then I'll follow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u157	At the request of Mrs Kooiman, I propose her motion (31839, No. 609). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u158	Next.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u159	Okay, thank you. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 610. I do not see much added value in doing research into the positioning of youth-ggz. I see that very clearly in the operative part of this motion. At the same time, what I am going to do is to discuss the findings of this mid-term evaluation with the whole field, but certainly also with the youth-ggz, in order to clarify them. That's an element. If you specifically draw attention in the labour market research to the youth ggz in order to bring them to justice in the research, knowing that the labour market issues within ggz institutions are often also a cause of waiting lists, then I can support the motion in that way. But that does mean that I ask you to delete "the positioning."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u160	Are you willing to do that, Mr. Raemakers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u161	"Positioning" I didn't come up with myself. This comes from a 2013 parliamentary motion that was adopted by the majority of the Chamber. But of course we are flexible in spirit and we are now a few years away. I could make it 'the functioning' of the youth ggz, where working in relation to the labour market must be seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u162	My problem with that is really that labour market research will have a very different character. Then it actually becomes an investigation into the ggz and the functioning of the youth ggz. I think that labour market research should do whatever it is likely to do if you use this title, which is to investigate the labour market around the youth ggz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u163	I'm gonna go brood on it for a while. I understand that the precise text can always be changed by e-mail later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u164	Yeah, for the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u165	For the time being, I will stick to the current text with the positioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u166	Okay, and then it's judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u167	I have to say to the administration that if it is maintained in its present form, I would advise against it, because it would ask for more than I intended to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u168	And the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u169	Then there's the third motion, Mr. Chairman. We have discussed this at length. Nor do I think that we should re-examine the maximum waiting times. Those are basically just the barracks standards. The extent to which they can be anchored, I actually already know. Because that's what you put in the contracts. But my objection to this motion is actually the most... Oh look, here comes the advice. Well, that's exactly what I was going to say! Actually, my objection is mostly the penalty payment. I just said I don't feel like it. So I don't want to investigate that either. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u170	Then I'll look around and see if anything stayed down. That is not the case. Then I would like to thank the Members of Parliament and the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-31.u172	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
